PXD030382	35042401	Mapping of a N-terminal alpha-helix domain required for human PINK1 stabilization, Serine228 autophosphorylation and activation in cells. 	Mapping of a N-terminal alpha-helix domain required for human PINK1 stabilisation, Serine228 autophosphorylation and activation in cells	hydrogen deuterium exchange, pink1	Autosomal recessive mutations in the PINK1 gene are causal for Parkinson's disease (PD). PINK1 encodes a mitochondrial localized protein kinase that is a master-regulator of mitochondrial quality control pathways. Structural studies to date have elaborated the mechanism of how mutations located within the kinase domain disrupt PINK1 function; however, the molecular mechanism of PINK1 mutations located upstream and downstream of the kinase domain is unknown. We have employed mutagenesis studies to define the minimal region of human PINK1 required for optimal ubiquitin phosphorylation, beginning at residue Ile111. Inspection of the AlphaFold human PINK1 structure model predicts a conserved N-terminal alpha-helical extension (NTE) domain forming an intramolecular interaction with the C-terminal extension (CTE), which we corroborate using hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry of recombinant insect PINK1 protein. Cell-based analysis of human PINK1 reveals that PD-associated mutations (e.g. Q126P), located within the NTE : CTE interface, markedly inhibit stabilization of PINK1; autophosphorylation at Serine228 (Ser228) and Ubiquitin Serine65 (Ser65) phosphorylation. Furthermore, we provide evidence that NTE and CTE domain mutants disrupt PINK1 stabilization at the mitochondrial Translocase of outer membrane complex. The clinical relevance of our findings is supported by the demonstration of defective stabilization and activation of endogenous PINK1 in human fibroblasts of a patient with early-onset PD due to homozygous PINK1 Q126P mutations. Overall, we define a functional role of the NTE : CTE interface towards PINK1 stabilization and activation and show that loss of NTE : CTE interactions is a major mechanism of PINK1-associated mutations linked to PD.
PXD028637	35042867	Deciphering the mechanism of processive ssDNA digestion by the Dna2-RPA ensemble. 	RPA promotes processive ssDNA digestion by Dna2 via their bimodal interaction in Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Dna2, RPA, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, ssDNA	Single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) commonly occurs as intermediates in DNA metabolic pathways. The ssDNA binding protein, RPA, not only protects the integrity of ssDNA, but also directs the downstream factor that signals or repairs the ssDNA intermediate. However, it remains unclear how these enzymes/factors outcompete RPA to access ssDNA. Using the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae as a model system, we find that Dna2 - a key nuclease in DNA replication and repair - employs a bimodal interface to act with RPA both in cis and in trans. The cis-activity makes RPA a processive unit for Dna2-catalyzed ssDNA digestion, where RPA delivers its bound ssDNA to Dna2. On the other hand, activity in trans is mediated by an acidic patch on Dna2, which enables it to function with a sub-optimal amount of RPA, or to overcome DNA secondary structures. The trans-activity mode is not required for cell viability, but is necessary for effective double strand break (DSB) repair.
PXD025054	35043148	Spatial Environment Affects HNF4A Mutation-Specific Proteome Signatures and Cellular Morphology in hiPSC-Derived beta-Like Cells. 	LC-MSMS study of hiPSC-derived beta-like cells in different 3D Eevironments	CRISPR/cas9, MODY1, NF4A, TMT quantification, alginate encapsulation, cell aggregates, global proteomics, hiPSC, beta-cell differentiation	Studies of monogenic diabetes are particularly useful because we can gain insight into the molecular events of pancreatic beta-cell failure. Maturity-onset diabetes of the young 1 (MODY1) is a form of monogenic diabetes caused by a mutation in the HNF4A gene. Human-induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) provide an excellent tool for disease modeling by subsequently directing differentiation toward desired pancreatic islet cells, but cellular phenotypes in terminally differentiated cells are notoriously difficult to detect. Re-creating a spatial (three-dimensional [3D]) environment may facilitate phenotype detection. We studied MODY1 by using hiPSC-derived pancreatic beta-like patient and isogenic control cell lines in two different 3D contexts. Using size-adjusted cell aggregates and alginate capsules, we show that the 3D context is critical to facilitating the detection of mutation-specific phenotypes. In 3D cell aggregates, we identified irregular cell clusters and lower levels of structural proteins by proteome analysis, whereas in 3D alginate capsules, we identified altered levels of glycolytic proteins in the glucose sensing apparatus by proteome analysis. Our study provides novel knowledge on normal and abnormal function of HNF4A, paving the way for translational studies of new drug targets that can be used in precision diabetes medicine in MODY.
PXD027972	35043389	Proteomic profiling identifies novel diagnostic biomarkers and molecular subtypes for mucinous tubular and spindle cell carcinoma of the kidney. 	Proteomic Profiling Identifies Novel Diagnostic Biomarkers and Molecular subtypes for Mucinous Tubular and Spindle Cell Carcinoma of the Kidney	Kidney, immunohistochemistry, mucinous tubular and spindle cell carcinoma	Mucinous tubular and spindle cell carcinoma (MTSCC) is a relatively rare renal epithelial neoplasm resembling type 1 papillary renal cell carcinoma (PRCC) morphologically and immunohistochemically. The accurate diagnosis of MTSCC remains a challenge. Here, by using proteomic profiling, we characterized MTSCC and PRCC to identify diagnostic biomarkers. We found that the MTSCC tumor proteome was significantly enriched in B-cell-mediated immunity when compared with the proteome of adjacent normal tissues of MTSCC or tumors of PRCC. Importantly, we identified MZB1, VCAN, and SOSTDC1 as diagnostic biomarkers to distinguish MTSCC from the solid variant of type 1 PRCC, with an AUC of 0.985 when combined. MZB1 was inversely correlated with tumor clinical stage and may play an anti-tumor role by activating the complement system. Finally, unsupervised clustering revealed two molecular subtypes of MTSCC, displaying different morphology, expression signatures of oxidative phosphorylation, and aggravation. In summary, our analyses identified a three-protein diagnostic panel and molecular subtypes for MTSCC. (c) 2022 The Authors. The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
PXD028527	35043947	A bipartite chromatophore transit peptide and N-terminal protein processing in the Paulinella chromatophore. 	The Paulinella chromatophore N-terminome	Paulinella chromatophore, chromatophore, protein import	The amoeba Paulinella chromatophora contains photosynthetic organelles, termed chromatophores, which evolved independently from plastids in plants and algae. At least one-third of the chromatophore proteome consists of nucleus-encoded (NE) proteins that are imported across the chromatophore double envelope membranes. Chromatophore-targeted proteins exceeding 250 amino acids (aa) carry a conserved N-terminal extension presumably involved in protein targeting, termed the chromatophore transit peptide (crTP). Short imported proteins do not carry discernable targeting signals. To explore whether the import of proteins is accompanied by their N-terminal processing, here we identified N-termini of 208 chromatophore-localized proteins by a mass spectrometry-based approach. Our study revealed extensive N-terminal acetylation and proteolytic processing in both NE and chromatophore-encoded (CE) fractions of the chromatophore proteome. Mature N-termini of 37 crTP-carrying proteins were identified, of which 30 were cleaved in a common processing region. Surprisingly, only the N-terminal ~50 aa (part 1) become cleaved upon import. This part contains a conserved adaptor protein-1 complex-binding motif known to mediate protein sorting at the trans-Golgi network followed by a predicted transmembrane helix, implying that part 1 anchors the protein co-translationally in the endoplasmic reticulum and mediates trafficking to the chromatophore via the Golgi. The C-terminal part 2 contains conserved secondary structural elements, remains attached to the mature proteins, and might mediate translocation across the chromatophore inner membrane. Short imported proteins remain largely unprocessed. Finally, this work illuminates N-terminal processing of proteins encoded in an evolutionary-early-stage organelle and suggests host-derived posttranslationally acting factors involved in regulation of the CE chromatophore proteome.
PXD028365	35043968	2',3'-cAMP treatment mimics the stress molecular response in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	2â€² ,3â€²-cAMP treatment mimics abiotic stress response	2â€², 3â€²-cAMP, abiotic stress, processing bodies, stress granules, stress response	The role of the RNA degradation product 2',3'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (2',3'-cAMP) is poorly understood. Recent studies have identified 2',3'-cAMP in plant material and determined its role in stress signaling. The level of 2',3'-cAMP increases upon wounding, in the dark, and under heat, and 2',3'-cAMP binding to an RNA-binding protein, Rbp47b, promotes stress granule (SG) assembly. To gain further mechanistic insights into the function of 2',3'-cAMP, we used a multi-omics approach by combining transcriptomics, metabolomics, and proteomics to dissect the response of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) to 2',3'-cAMP treatment. We demonstrated that 2',3'-cAMP is metabolized into adenosine, suggesting that the well-known cyclic nucleotide-adenosine pathway of human cells might also exist in plants. Transcriptomics analysis revealed only minor overlap between 2',3'-cAMP- and adenosine-treated plants, suggesting that these molecules act through independent mechanisms. Treatment with 2',3'-cAMP changed the levels of hundreds of transcripts, proteins, and metabolites, many previously associated with plant stress responses, including protein and RNA degradation products, glucosinolates, chaperones, and SG components. Finally, we demonstrated that 2',3'-cAMP treatment influences the movement of processing bodies, confirming the role of 2',3'-cAMP in the formation and motility of membraneless organelles.
PXD030240	35045290	Tissue differences in the exosomal/small extracellular vesicle proteome and their potential as indicators of altered tissue metabolism. 	Multiplexed Exosome proteomics from mouse tissues	TMT	Exosomes/small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) can serve as multifactorial mediators of cell-to-cell communication through their miRNA and protein cargo. Quantitative proteomic analysis of five cell lines representing metabolically important tissues reveals that each cell type has a unique sEV proteome. While classical sEV markers such as CD9/CD63/CD81 vary markedly in abundance, we identify six sEV markers (ENO1, GPI, HSPA5, YWHAB, CSF1R, and CNTN1) that are similarly abundant in sEVs of all cell types. In addition, each cell type has specific sEV markers. Using fat-specific Dicer-knockout mice with decreased white adipose tissue and increased brown adipose tissue, we show that these cell-type-specific markers can predict the changing origin of the serum sEVs. These results provide a valuable resource for understanding the sEV proteome of the cells and tissues important in metabolic homeostasis, identify unique sEV markers, and demonstrate how these markers can help in predicting the tissue of origin of serum sEVs.
PXD030753	35045565	The cGAS-STING pathway drives type I IFN immunopathology in COVID-19. 	The cGAS-STING pathway drives type I IFN immunopathology in COVID-19	COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, endothelial cells, lung-on-chip	COVID-19, which is caused by infection with SARS-CoV-2, is characterized by lung pathology and extrapulmonary complications(1,2). Type I interferons (IFNs) have an essential role in the pathogenesis of COVID-19 (refs (3-5)). Although rapid induction of type I IFNs limits virus propagation, a sustained increase in the levels of type I IFNs in the late phase of the infection is associated with aberrant inflammation and poor clinical outcome(5-17). Here we show that the cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS)-stimulator of interferon genes (STING) pathway, which controls immunity to cytosolic DNA, is a critical driver of aberrant type I IFN responses in COVID-19 (ref. (18)). Profiling COVID-19 skin manifestations, we uncover a STING-dependent type I IFN signature that is primarily mediated by macrophages adjacent to areas of endothelial cell damage. Moreover, cGAS-STING activity was detected in lung samples from patients with COVID-19 with prominent tissue destruction, and was associated with type I IFN responses. A lung-on-chip model revealed that, in addition to macrophages, infection with SARS-CoV-2 activates cGAS-STING signalling in endothelial cells through mitochondrial DNA release, which leads to cell death and type I IFN production. In mice, pharmacological inhibition of STING reduces severe lung inflammation induced by SARS-CoV-2 and improves disease outcome. Collectively, our study establishes a mechanistic basis of pathological type I IFN responses in COVID-19 and reveals a principle for the development of host-directed therapeutics.
PXD027344	35045692	Comparative analysis of ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 and Ad26.COV2.S SARS-CoV-2 vector vaccines. 	Comparative analysis of ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 and Ad26.COV2.S SARS-CoV-2 vector vaccines	Ad26.COV2.S, ChAdOx1, ProteomeXchange project tag: Covid-19, SARS-CoV-2, vector vaccines	Vector-based SARS-CoV-2 vaccines have been associated with vaccine- induced thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (VITT/TTS), but the causative factors are still unresolved. We comprehensively analyzed the ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 (AstraZeneca) and Ad26.COV2.S (Johnson and Johnson) vaccines. ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 contains significant amounts of host cell protein impurities, including functionally active proteasomes, and adenoviral proteins. A much smaller amount of impurities was found in Ad26.COV2.S. Platelet factor 4 formed complexes with ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 constituents, but not with purified virions from ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 or with Ad26.COV2.S. Vascular hyperpermeability was induced by ChAdOx nCoV-19 but not by Ad26.COV2.S. These differences in impurities together with EDTAinduced capillary leakage might contribute to the higher incidence rate of VITT associated with ChAdOx1 nCoV-19 compared to Ad26.COV2.S.
PXD029410	35046029	Parkinson's disease protein PARK7 prevents metabolite and protein damage caused by a glycolytic metabolite. 	Parkinson's disease protein PARK7 prevents metabolite and protein damage caused by a glycolytic metabolite	DJ1, PARK7, Parkinsons disease, glycerate, glyceroyl, glycolysis, phosphoglycerate, phosphoglyceroyl, posttranslational modification	Cells are continuously exposed to potentially dangerous compounds. Progressive accumulation of damage is suspected to contribute to neurodegenerative diseases and aging, but the molecular identity of the damage remains largely unknown. Here we report that PARK7, an enzyme mutated in hereditary Parkinson's disease, prevents damage of proteins and metabolites caused by a metabolite of glycolysis. We found that the glycolytic metabolite 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate (1,3-BPG) spontaneously forms a novel reactive intermediate that avidly reacts with amino groups. PARK7 acts by destroying this intermediate, thereby preventing the formation of proteins and metabolites with glycerate and phosphoglycerate modifications on amino groups. As a consequence, inactivation of PARK7 (or its orthologs) in human cell lines, mouse brain, and Drosophila melanogaster leads to the accumulation of these damaged compounds, most of which have not been described before. Our work demonstrates that PARK7 function represents a highly conserved strategy to prevent damage in cells that metabolize carbohydrates. This represents a fundamental link between metabolism and a type of cellular damage that might contribute to the development of Parkinson's disease.
PXD025453	35046397	A phase 2 single center open label randomised control trial for convalescent plasma therapy in patients with severe COVID-19. 	Clinical and immunological benefits of convalescent plasma therapy in severe COVID-19: insights from a single center open label randomised control trial	ARDS, COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SAWTH-MS, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), convalescent plasma therapy (CPT)	A single center open label phase 2 randomised control trial (Clinical Trial Registry of India No. CTRI/2020/05/025209) was done to assess clinical and immunological benefits of passive immunization using convalescent plasma therapy. At the Infectious Diseases and Beleghata General Hospital in Kolkata, India, 80 patients hospitalized with severe COVID-19 disease and fulfilling the inclusion criteria (aged more than 18 years, with either mild ARDS having PaO2/FiO2 200-300 or moderate ARDS having PaO2/FiO2 100-200, not on mechanical ventilation) were recruited and randomized into either standard of care (SOC) arm (N = 40) or the convalescent plasma therapy (CPT) arm (N = 40). Primary outcomes were all-cause mortality by day 30 of enrolment and immunological correlates of response to therapy if any, for which plasma abundance of a large panel of cytokines was quantitated before and after intervention to assess the effect of CPT on the systemic hyper-inflammation encountered in these patients. The secondary outcomes were recovery from ARDS and time taken to negative viral RNA PCR as well as to report any adverse reaction to plasma therapy. Transfused convalescent plasma was characterized in terms of its neutralizing antibody content as well as proteome. The trial was completed and it was found that primary outcome of all-cause mortality was not significantly different among severe COVID-19 patients with ARDS randomized to two treatment arms (Mantel-Haenszel Hazard Ratio 0.6731, 95% confidence interval 0.3010-1.505, with a P value of 0.3424 on Mantel-Cox Log-rank test). No adverse effect was reported with CPT. In severe COVID-19 patients with mild or moderate ARDS no significant clinical benefit was registered in this clinical trial with convalescent plasma therapy in terms of prespecified outcomes.
PXD028717	35046911	Proteomic and Transcriptomic Analyses Indicate Reduced Biofilm-Forming Abilities in Cefiderocol-Resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae. 	Biological characteristics of cefiderocol-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae and the mechanism of reduced biofilm-forming abilityâ€”From the perspective of proteome and transcriptome	Klebsiella pneumoniae, biofilm, cefiderocol, resistance, siderophore	The advent of cefiderocol provides hope for the clinical treatment of multi-drug resistant gram-negative bacteria (GNB), especially those with carbapenem resistance. Resistance of Klebsiella pneumoniae to cefiderocol can be enhanced by acclimatization. In the present study, we collected cefiderocol resistant K. pneumoniae isolates during a 36-day acclimatization procedure while increasing the cefiderocol concentration in the culture medium. Strains were studied for changes in their biological characteristics using proteomics and transcriptomics. A decrease in biofilm formation ability was the main change observed among the induced isolates. Downregulation of genes involved in biofilm formation including hdeB, stpA, yhjQ, fba, bcsZ, uvrY, bcsE, bcsC, and ibpB were the main factors that reduced the biofilm formation ability. Moreover, downregulation of siderophore transporter proteins including the iron uptake system component efeO, the tonB-dependent receptor fecA, and ferric iron ABC transporter fbpA may be among the determining factors leading to cefiderocol resistance and promoting the reduction of biofilm formation ability of K. pneumoniae. This is the first study to investigate cefiderocol resistance based on comprehensive proteomic and transcriptomic analyses.
PXD028350	35047420	An Integrative Sialomic Analysis Reveals Molecules From Triatoma sordida (Hemiptera: Reduviidae). 	Triatoma sordida salivary glands LC-MSMS	Saliva, Salivary glands, Triatoma sordida	Triatomines have evolved salivary glands that produce versatile molecules with various biological functions, including those leading their interactions with vertebrate hosts' hemostatic and immunological systems. Here, using high-throughput transcriptomics and proteomics, we report the first sialome study on the synanthropic triatomine Triatoma sordida. As a result, 57,645,372 reads were assembled into 26,670 coding sequences (CDS). From these, a total of 16,683 were successfully annotated. The sialotranscriptomic profile shows Lipocalin as the most abundant protein family within putative secreted transcripts. Trialysins and Kazal-type protease inhibitors have high transcript levels followed by ubiquitous protein families and enzyme classes. Interestingly, abundant trialysin and Kazal-type members are highlighted in this triatomine sialotranscriptome. Furthermore, we identified 132 proteins in T. sordida salivary gland soluble extract through LC-MS/MS spectrometry. Lipocalins, Hemiptera specific families, CRISP/Antigen-5 and Kazal-type protein inhibitors proteins were identified. Our study provides a comprehensive description of the transcript and protein compositions of the salivary glands of T. sordida. It significantly enhances the information in the Triatominae sialome databanks reported so far, improving the understanding of the vector's biology, the hematophagous behaviour, and the Triatominae subfamily's evolution.
PXD029790	35048565	Pyruvate Facilitates FACT-Mediated gammaH2AX Loading to Chromatin and Promotes the Radiation Resistance of Glioblastoma. 	Pyruvate facilitates FACT-mediated gammaH2AX loading to chromatin and promotes the radiation resistance of glioblastoma	PKM2, SSRP1	DNA repair confers the resistance of tumor cells to DNA-damaging anticancer therapies, while how reprogrammed metabolism in tumor cells contributes to such process remains poorly understood. Pyruvate kinase M2 isoform (PKM2) catalyzes the conversion of phosphoenolpyruvate to pyruvate and regulates the last rate-limiting step of glycolysis. Here it is shown that the glycolytic metabolite pyruvate enhances DNA damage repair by facilitating chromatin loading of gammaH2AX, thereby promoting the radiation resistance of glioma cells. Mechanistically, PKM2 is phosphorylated at serine (S) 222 upon DNA damage and interacts with FACT complex, a histone chaperone comprising SPT16 and SSRP1 subunit. The pyruvate produced by PKM2 directly binds to SSRP1, which increases the association of FACT complex with gammaH2AX and subsequently facilitates FACT-mediated chromatin loading of gammaH2AX, ultimately promoting DNA repair and tumor cell survival. Intriguingly, the supplementation of exogenous pyruvate can also sufficiently enhance FACT-mediated chromatin loading of gammaH2AX and promotes tumor cell survival upon DNA damage. The levels of PKM2 S222 phosphorylation correlate with the malignancy and prognosis of human glioblastoma. The finding demonstrates a novel mechanism by which PKM2-produced pyruvate promotes DNA repair by regulating gammaH2AX loading to chromatin and establishes a critical role of this mechanism in glioblastoma radiation resistance.
PXD029425	35048979	Nuclear export restricts Gdown1 to a mitotic function. 	Characterization of GFP-Gdown1 interactors by IP and LC-MS/MS	GFP, Gdown1, IP	Approximately half of purified mammalian RNA polymerase II (Pol II) is associated with a tightly interacting sub-stoichiometric subunit, Gdown1. Previous studies have established that Gdown1 inhibits transcription initiation through competitive interactions with general transcription factors and blocks the Pol II termination activity of transcription termination factor 2 (TTF2). However, the biological functions of Gdown1 remain poorly understood. Here, we utilized genetic, microscopic, and multi-omics approaches to functionally characterize Gdown1 in three human cell lines. Acute depletion of Gdown1 caused minimal direct effects on transcription. We show that Gdown1 resides predominantly in the cytoplasm of interphase cells, shuttles between the cytoplasm and nucleus, and is regulated by nuclear export. Gdown1 enters the nucleus at the onset of mitosis. Consistently, genetic ablation of Gdown1 is associated with partial de-repression of mitotic transcription, and Gdown1 KO cells present with evidence of aberrant mitoses coupled to p53 pathway activation. Evidence is presented demonstrating that Gdown1 modulates the combined functions of purified productive elongation factors PAF1C, RTF1, SPT6, DSIF and P-TEFb in vitro. Collectively, our findings support a model wherein the Pol II-regulatory function of Gdown1 occurs during mitosis and is required for genome integrity.
PXD021687	35049997	The Combination of Iron and Copper Increases Pathogenicity and Induces Proteins Related to the Main Virulence Factors in Clinical Isolates of Cryptococcus neoformans var. grubii. 	Iron and Copper induce proteomic changes related to the expression of virulence factors in clinical isolates of Cryptococcus neoformans	Clinical, Cryptococcus neoformans, Cryptocosis, Minerals, Protein, copper, iron	In fungi, metals are associated with the expression of virulence factors. However, it is unclear whether the uptake of metals affects their pathogenicity. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of iron/copper in modulating pathogenicity and proteomic response in two clinical isolates of C. neoformans with high and low pathogenicity. METHODS: In both isolates, the effect of 50 microM iron and 500 microM copper on pathogenicity, capsule induction, and melanin production was evaluated. We then performed a quantitative proteomic analysis of cytoplasmic extracts exposed to that combination. Finally, the effect on pathogenicity by iron and copper was evaluated in eight additional isolates. RESULTS: In both isolates, the combination of iron and copper increased pathogenicity, capsule size, and melanin production. Regarding proteomic data, proteins with increased levels after iron and copper exposure were related to biological processes such as cell stress, vesicular traffic (Ap1, Vps35), cell wall structure (Och1, Ccr4, Gsk3), melanin biosynthesis (Hem15, Mln2), DNA repair (Chk1), protein transport (Mms2), SUMOylation (Uba2), and mitochondrial transport (Atm1). Increased pathogenicity by exposure to metal combination was also confirmed in 90% of the eight isolates. CONCLUSIONS: The combination of these metals enhances pathogenicity and increases the abundance of proteins related to the main virulence factors.
PXD029000	35050640	Improving the Identification of Lysine-Acetylated Peptides Using a Molecularly Imprinted Monolith Prepared by a Deep Eutectic Solvent Monomer. 	Improving identification of lysine acetylated peptides using molecularly imprinted monolith prepared by a deep eutectic solvents monomer	Deep eutectic solvents monomer, Lysine acetylation, Molecular imprinting technique, Post-translational modifications, Solid phase extraction	To overcome the identification challenge of low-abundance lysine acetylation (Kac), a novel approach based on a molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP) was developed to improve the extraction capacity of Kac peptides in real samples. Green deep eutectic solvents (DESs) were introduced and used as one of the synergistic functional monomers with zinc acrylate (ZnA). Glycine-glycine-alanine-lysine(ac)-arginine (GGAKacR) was chosen as a template and N,N'-methylenbisacrylamide (MBAA) was used as a cross-linker. The obtained GGAKacR-MIP had excellent selectivity for the template with an imprinting factor (IF) of up to 21.4. The histone digest addition experiment demonstrated that GGAKacR-MIP could successfully extract GGAKacR from a complex sample. Finally, the application to the extraction of Kac peptides from mouse liver protein digestion was studied in detail. The number of Kac peptides and Kac proteins identified was 130 and 110, which were 3.71-fold and 3.93-fold higher than those of the untreated sample. In addition, the number of peptides and proteins identified after treatment increased from 5535 and 1092 to 17 149 and 4037 (3.10-fold and 3.70-fold, respectively). The results showed that the obtained MIP may provide an effective technical tool for the identification of Kac-modification and peptide fractionation, as well as a potential approach for simultaneously identifying post-translational-modified proteomic and proteomic information.
PXD027074	35051051	First Attempt to Couple Proteomics with the AhR Reporter Gene Bioassay in Soil Pollution Monitoring and Assessment. 	FIRST ATTEMPT TO COUPLE PROTEOMIC WITH AhR REPORTER GENE BIOASSAY IN SOIL POLLUTION MONITORING AND ASSESSMENT	DR-CALUX, dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls., polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins, polychlorinated dibenzofurans	A topsoil sample obtained from a highly industrialized area (Taranto, Italy) was tested on the DR-CALUX((R)) cell line and the exposed cells processed with proteomic and bioinformatics analyses. The presence of polyhalogenated compounds in the topsoil extracts was confirmed by GC-MS/MS analysis. Proteomic analysis of the cells exposed to the topsoil extracts identified 43 differential proteins. Enrichment analysis highlighted biological processes, such as the cellular response to a chemical stimulus, stress, and inorganic substances; regulation of translation; regulation of apoptotic process; and the response to organonitrogen compounds in light of particular drugs and compounds, extrapolated by bioinformatics all linked to the identified protein modifications. Our results confirm and reflect the complex epidemiological situation occurring among Taranto inhabitants and underline the need to further investigate the presence and sources of inferred chemicals in soils. The combination of bioassays and proteomics reveals a more complex scenario of chemicals able to affect cellular pathways and leading to toxicities rather than those identified by only bioassays and related chemical analysis. This combined approach turns out to be a promising tool for soil risk assessment and deserves further investigation and developments for soil monitoring and risk assessment.
PXD029614	35051415	The yapsin family of aspartyl proteases regulate glucose homeostasis in Candida glabrata. 	Total membrane proteome analysis of Candida glabrata wild-type and eleven CgYapsins-deficient strain Cgyps1-11âˆ†.	Candida glabrata, Total membrane fractions (TMFs), membrane proteome	Invasive candidiasis poses a major healthcare threat. The human opportunistic fungal pathogen Candida glabrata, which causes mucosal and deep-seated infections, is armed with distinct virulence attributes, including a family of 11 glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked aspartyl proteases, CgYapsins. Here, we have profiled total membrane proteomes of the C. glabrata wildtype and 11 proteases-deficient strain, Cgyps1-11Delta, by mass spectrometry analysis and uncovered a novel role for fungal yapsins in glucose sensing and homeostasis. Furthermore, through label-free quantitative membrane proteome analysis, we showed differential abundance of 42% of identified membrane proteins, with electron transport chain and glycolysis proteins displaying lower and higher abundance in Cgyps1-11Delta cells, compared with wildtype cells, respectively. We also demonstrated elevated glucose uptake and upregulation of genes that code for the low-glucose sensor CgSnf3, transcriptional regulators CgMig1 and CgRgt1, and hexose transporter CgHxt2/10 in the Cgyps1-11Delta mutant. We further elucidated a potential underlying mechanism through genetic and transcript measurement analysis under low- and high-glucose conditions and found CgSNF3 deletion to rescue high glucose uptake and attenuated growth of the Cgyps1-11Delta mutant in YPD medium, thereby linking CgYapsins with regulation of the CgSnf3-dependent low-glucose sensing pathway. Last, high ethanol production, diminished mitochondrial membrane potential, and elevated susceptibility to oxidative phosphorylation inhibitors point toward increased fermentative and decreased respiratory metabolism in the Cgyps1-11Delta mutant. Altogether, our findings revealed new possible glucose metabolism-regulatory roles for putative cell surface-associated CgYapsins and advanced our understanding of fungal carbohydrate homeostasis mechanisms.
PXD030181	35051657	A Dynamic and Combinatorial Histone Code Drives Malaria Parasite Asexual and Sexual Development. 	A dynamic and combinatorial histone code drives malaria parasite asexual and sexual development	Gametocyte, PTM, Plasmodium falciparum, histone code, malaria, middle-down mass spectrometry proteomics, parasite, post-translational modification	Histone posttranslational modifications (PTMs) frequently co-occur on the same chromatin domains or even in the same molecule. It is now established that these "histone codes" are the result of cross talk between enzymes that catalyze multiple PTMs with univocal readout as compared with these PTMs in isolation. Here, we performed a comprehensive identification and quantification of histone codes of the malaria parasite, Plasmodium falciparum. We used advanced quantitative middle-down proteomics to identify combinations of PTMs in both the proliferative, asexual stages and transmissible, sexual gametocyte stages of P. falciparum. We provide an updated, high-resolution compendium of 77 PTMs on H3 and H3.3, of which 34 are newly identified in P. falciparum. Coexisting PTMs with unique stage distinctions were identified, indicating that many of these combinatorial PTMs are associated with specific stages of the parasite life cycle. We focused on the code H3R17me2K18acK23ac for its unique presence in mature gametocytes; chromatin proteomics identified a gametocyte-specific SAGA-like effector complex including the transcription factor AP2-G2, which we tied to this specific histone code, as involved in regulating gene expression in mature gametocytes. Ultimately, this study unveils previously undiscovered histone PTMs and their functional relationship with coexisting partners. These results highlight that investigating chromatin regulation in the parasite using single histone PTM assays might overlook higher-order gene regulation for distinct proliferation and differentiation processes.
PXD029865	35052578	Effects of Erythrodiol on the Antioxidant Response and Proteome of HepG2 Cells. 	EFFECTS OF ERYTHRODIOL ON THE ANTIOXIDANT RESPONSE AND PROTEOME OF HepG2 CELLS	Erythrodiol, GSH, HepG2, NADPH, ROS, antioxidant enzymes, cytotoxicity	Erythrodiol (EO) is a pentacyclic triterpenic alcohol found in olive tree leaves and olive oil, and it has important effects on the health properties and quality of olive oil. In this study, we characterized the cytotoxic effects of EO on human hepatocarcinoma (HepG2) cells by studying changes in cell viability, reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, antioxidant defense systems, and the proteome. The results reveal that EO markedly decreased HepG2 cell viability without changing ROS levels. The concentrations of glutathione and NADPH were significantly reduced, with selective changes in the activity of several antioxidant enzymes: glutathione peroxidase, glutathione reductase, glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase, and 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase. Proteomic data reveal that EO led to the complete elimination or decreased abundance of 41 and 3 proteins, respectively, and the abundance of 29 proteins increased. The results of functional enrichment analysis show that important metabolic processes and the nuclear transport of mature mRNA were impaired, whereas AMP biosynthesis and cell cycle G2/M phase transition were induced. The transcription factors and miRNAs involved in this response were also identified. These potent antiproliferative effects make EO a good candidate for the further analysis of its hepatic antitumor effects in in vivo studies.
PXD029239	35052585	Acacia catechu Willd. Extract Protects Neuronal Cells from Oxidative Stress-Induced Damage. 	Acacia Catechu Willd extract protects neuronal cells from oxidative stress-induced damage	Acacia Catechu, Brain, LC-HRMS/MS, Rat	Oxidative stress (OS) and the resulting reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation and inflammation play a pivotal role in the neuronal loss occurring during the onset of neurodegenerative diseases. Therefore, promising future drugs that would prevent or slow down the progression of neurodegeneration should possess potent radical-scavenging activity. Acacia catechu Willd. heartwood extract (AC), already characterized for its high catechin content, is endowed with antioxidant properties. The aim of the present study was to assess AC neuroprotection in both human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells and rat brain slices treated with hydrogen peroxide. In SH-SY5Y cells, AC prevented a decrease in viability, as well as an increase in sub-diploid-, DAPI positive cells, reduced ROS formation, and recovered the mitochondrial potential and caspase-3 activation. AC related neuroprotective effects also occurred in rat brain slices as a reversal prevention in the expression of the main proteins involved in apoptosis and signalling pathways related to calcium homeostasis following OS-mediated injury. Additionally, unbiased quantitative mass spectrometry allowed for assessing that AC partially prevented the hydrogen peroxide-induced altered proteome, including proteins belonging to the synaptic vesicle fusion apparatus. In conclusion, the present results suggest the possibility of AC as a nutraceutical useful in preventing neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD030755	35053381	Revisiting the Non-Coding Nature of Pospiviroids. 	Revisiting non-coding nature of viroids	PSTVd, Viroid, cirRNA, non-coding RNA, translation	Viroids are small, circular, highly structured pathogens that infect a broad range of plants, causing economic losses. Since their discovery in the 1970s, they have been considered as non-coding pathogens. In the last few years, the discovery of other RNA entities, similar in terms of size and structure, that were shown to be translated (e.g., cirRNAs, precursors of miRNA, RNA satellites) as well as studies showing that some viroids are located in ribosomes, have reignited the idea that viroids may be translated. In this study, we used advanced bioinformatic analysis, in vitro experiments and LC-MS/MS to search for small viroid peptides of the PSTVd. Our results suggest that in our experimental conditions, even though the circular form of PSTVd is found in ribosomes, no produced peptides were identified. This indicates that the presence of PSTVd in ribosomes is most probably not related to peptide production but rather to another unknown function that requires further study.
PXD030239	35053409	Identification of the Cysteine Protease Legumain as a Potential Chronic Hypoxia-Specific Multiple Myeloma Target Gene. 	Hypoxia-Induced Regulation of the Proteome in Multiple Myeloma Cell Lines	Hypoxia, Multiple Myeloma, Plasma Cells	Multiple myeloma (MM) is the second most common hematologic malignancy, which is characterized by clonal proliferation of neoplastic plasma cells in the bone marrow. This microenvironment is characterized by low oxygen levels (1-6% O2), known as hypoxia. For MM cells, hypoxia is a physiologic feature that has been described to promote an aggressive phenotype and to confer drug resistance. However, studies on hypoxia are scarce and show little conformity. Here, we analyzed the mRNA expression of previously determined hypoxia markers to define the temporal adaptation of MM cells to chronic hypoxia. Subsequent analyses of the global proteome in MM cells and the stromal cell line HS-5 revealed hypoxia-dependent regulation of proteins, which directly or indirectly upregulate glycolysis. In addition, chronic hypoxia led to MM-specific regulation of nine distinct proteins. One of these proteins is the cysteine protease legumain (LGMN), the depletion of which led to a significant growth disadvantage of MM cell lines that is enhanced under hypoxia. Thus, herein, we report a methodologic strategy to examine MM cells under physiologic hypoxic conditions in vitro and to decipher and study previously masked hypoxia-specific therapeutic targets such as the cysteine protease LGMN.
PXD026016	35053611	Deciphering Biomarkers for Leptomeningeal Metastasis in Malignant Hemopathies (Lymphoma/Leukemia) Patients by Comprehensive Multipronged Proteomics Characterization of Cerebrospinal Fluid. 	Design and development of nanoproteomics strategies for biomarker identification in cerebrospinal fluid of leptomeningeal disease, using as model lymphoma non-Hodgkin B.	Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF), Leptomeningeal Metastasis (LM), Protein microarrays, Protein-based biomarker.	In the present work, leptomeningeal disease, a very destructive form of systemic cancer, was characterized from several proteomics points of view. This pathology involves the invasion of the leptomeninges by malignant tumor cells. The tumor spreads to the central nervous system through the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and has a very grim prognosis; the average life expectancy of patients who suffer it does not exceed 3 months. The early diagnosis of leptomeningeal disease is a challenge because, in most of the cases, it is an asymptomatic pathology. When the symptoms are clear, the disease is already in the very advanced stages and life expectancy is low. Consequently, there is a pressing need to determine useful CSF proteins to help in the diagnosis and/or prognosis of this disease. For this purpose, a systematic and exhaustive proteomics characterization of CSF by multipronged proteomics approaches was performed to determine different protein profiles as potential biomarkers. Proteins such as PTPRC, SERPINC1, sCD44, sCD14, ANPEP, SPP1, FCGR1A, C9, sCD19, and sCD34, among others, and their functional analysis, reveals that most of them are linked to the pathology and are not detected on normal CSF. Finally, a panel of biomarkers was verified by a prediction model for leptomeningeal disease, showing new insights into the research for potential biomarkers that are easy to translate into the clinic for the diagnosis of this devastating disease.
PXD030067	35054890	ERK1/2 Activity Is Critical for the Outcome of Ischemic Stroke. 	LFQ of mouse brain in ischemic stroke	Brain, LFQ	Ischemic disorders are the leading cause of death worldwide. The extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2) are thought to affect the outcome of ischemic stroke. However, it is under debate whether activation or inhibition of ERK1/2 is beneficial. In this study, we report that the ubiquitous overexpression of wild-type ERK2 in mice (ERK2(wt)) is detrimental after transient occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (tMCAO), as it led to a massive increase in infarct volume and neurological deficits by increasing blood-brain barrier (BBB) leakiness, inflammation, and the number of apoptotic neurons. To compare ERK1/2 activation and inhibition side-by-side, we also used mice with ubiquitous overexpression of the Raf-kinase inhibitor protein (RKIP(wt)) and its phosphorylation-deficient mutant RKIP(S153A), known inhibitors of the ERK1/2 signaling cascade. RKIP(wt) and RKIP(S153A) attenuated ischemia-induced damages, in particular via anti-inflammatory signaling. Taken together, our data suggest that stimulation of the Raf/MEK/ERK1/2-cascade is severely detrimental and its inhibition is rather protective. Thus, a tight control of the ERK1/2 signaling is essential for the outcome in response to ischemic stroke.
PXD030175	35055063	Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase 4-Regulated Metabolic Networks. 	Mitogen-activated protein kinase 4 regulated metabolic networks	MPK4	Mitogen-activated protein kinase 4 (MPK4) was first identified as a negative regulator of systemic acquired resistance. It is also an important kinase involved in many other biological processes in plants, including cytokinesis, reproduction, and photosynthesis. Arabidopsis thaliana&nbsp;mpk4 mutant is dwarf and sterile. Previous omics studies including genomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics have revealed new functions of MPK4 in different biological processes. However, due to challenges in metabolomics, no study has touched upon the metabolomic profiles of the mpk4 mutant. What metabolites and metabolic pathways are potentially regulated by MPK4 are not known. Metabolites are crucial components of plants, and they play important roles in plant growth and development, signaling, and defense. Here we used targeted and untargeted metabolomics to profile metabolites in the wild type and the mpk4 mutant. We found that in addition to the jasmonic acid and salicylic acid pathways, MPK4 is involved in polyamine synthesis and photosynthesis. In addition, we also conducted label-free proteomics of the two genotypes. The integration of metabolomics and proteomics data allows for an insight into the metabolomic networks that are potentially regulated by MPK4.
PXD030687	35056752	High Throughput Identification of the Potential Antioxidant Peptides in Ophiocordyceps sinensis. 	Proteomics study on Ophiocordyceps sinensis	Ophiocordyceps sinensis	Ophiocordyceps sinensis, an ascomycete caterpillar fungus, has been used as a Traditional Chinese Medicine owing to its bioactive properties. However, until now the bio-active peptides have not been identified in this fungus. Here, the raw RNA sequences of three crucial growth stages of the artificially cultivated O. sinensis and the wild-grown mature fruit-body were aligned to the genome of O. sinensis. Both homology-based prediction and de novo-based prediction methods were used to identify 8541 putative antioxidant peptides (pAOPs). The expression profiles of the cultivated mature fruiting body were similar to those found in the wild specimens. The differential expression of 1008 pAOPs matched genes had the highest difference between ST and MF, suggesting that the pAOPs were primarily induced and play important roles in the process of the fruit-body maturation. Gene ontology analysis showed that most of pAOPs matched genes were enriched in terms of 'cell redox homeostasis', 'response to oxidative stresses', 'catalase activity', and ' integral component of cell membrane'. A total of 1655 pAOPs was identified in our protein-seqs, and some crucial pAOPs were selected, including catalase, peroxiredoxin, and SOD [Cu-Zn]. Our findings offer the first identification of the active peptide ingredients in O. sinensis, facilitating the discovery of anti-infectious bio-activity and the understanding of the roles of AOPs in fungal pathogenicity and the high-altitude adaptation in this medicinal fungus.
PXD029662	35058437	Circulating ACE2-expressing extracellular vesicles block broad strains of SARS-CoV-2. 	Circulating ACE2-expressing Extracellular Vesicles as an Innate Antiviral Response and A Decoy Therapy to Block Broad Strains of SARS-CoV-2	ACE2, SARS-CoV-2	The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused the pandemic of the coronavirus induced disease 2019 (COVID-19) with evolving variants of concern. It remains urgent to identify novel approaches against broad strains of SARS-CoV-2, which infect host cells via the entry receptor angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). Herein, we report an increase in circulating extracellular vesicles (EVs) that express ACE2 (evACE2) in plasma of COVID-19 patients, which levels are associated with severe pathogenesis. Importantly, evACE2 isolated from human plasma or cells neutralizes SARS-CoV-2 infection by competing with cellular ACE2. Compared to vesicle-free recombinant human ACE2 (rhACE2), evACE2 shows a 135-fold higher potency in blocking the binding of the viral spike protein RBD, and a 60- to 80-fold higher efficacy in preventing infections by both pseudotyped and authentic SARS-CoV-2. Consistently, evACE2 protects the hACE2 transgenic mice from SARS-CoV-2-induced lung injury and mortality. Furthermore, evACE2 inhibits the infection of SARS-CoV-2 variants (alpha, beta, and delta) with equal or higher potency than for the wildtype strain, supporting a broad-spectrum antiviral mechanism of evACE2 for therapeutic development to block the infection of existing and future coronaviruses that use the ACE2 receptor.
PXD029213	35058800	The Effects of Mild Intermittent Hypoxia Exposure on the Abdominal Subcutaneous Adipose Tissue Proteome in Overweight and Obese Men: A First-in-Human Randomized, Single-Blind, and Cross-Over Study. 	The effects of mild intermittent hypoxia exposure on the abdominal subcutaneous adipose tissue proteome in overweight and obese men: A first-in-human randomized, single-blind, cross-over study	Human hypoxia adipose tissue	Adipose tissue (AT) oxygen tension (pO2) has been implicated in AT dysfunction and metabolic perturbations in both rodents and humans. Compelling evidence suggests that hypoxia exposure alters metabolism, at least partly through effects on AT. However, it remains to be elucidated whether mild intermittent hypoxia (MIH) exposure impacts the AT proteome. We performed a randomized, single-blind, and cross-over study to investigate the effects of seven consecutive days of MIH (FiO2 15%, 3x2h/d) compared to normoxia (FiO2 21%) exposure on the AT proteome in overweight/obese men. In vivo AT insulin sensitivity was determined by the gold standard hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp, and abdominal subcutaneous AT biopsies were collected under normoxic fasting conditions following both exposure regimens (day 8). AT proteins were isolated and quantified using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. After correction for blood contamination, 1,022 AT protein IDs were identified, of which 123 were differentially expressed following MIH (p < 0.05). We demonstrate for the first time that MIH exposure, which markedly reduces in vivo AT oxygen tension, impacts the human AT proteome. Although we cannot exclude that a single differentially expressed protein might be a false positive finding, several functional pathways were altered by MIH exposure, also after adjustment for multiple testing. Specifically, differentially expressed proteins were involved in redox systems, cell-adhesion, actin cytoskeleton organization, extracellular matrix composition, and energy metabolism. The MIH-induced change in AT TMOD3 expression was strongly related to altered in vivo AT insulin sensitivity, thus linking MIH-induced effects on the AT proteome to metabolic changes in overweight/obese humans.
PXD029024	35058969	Multi-Omics Profiling Identifies Pathways Associated With CD8(+) T-Cell Activation in Severe Aplastic Anemia. 	Multi-omics profiling identifies pathways associated with CD8+ T cell activation in severe aplastic anemia	T cells, aplastic anemia, metabolomics, multi-omics, single-cell RNA sequencing	Severe aplastic anemia (SAA) is an autoimmune disease characterized by immune-mediated destruction of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells. Autoreactive CD8(+) T cells have been reported as the effector cells; however, the mechanisms regulating their cell activation in SAA remain largely unknown. Here, we performed proteomics and metabolomics analyses of plasma and bone marrow supernatant, together with transcriptional analysis of CD8(+) T cells from SAA patients and healthy donors, to find key pathways that are involved in pathogenic CD8(+) T-cell activation. We identified 21 differential proteins and 50 differential metabolites in SAA patients that were mainly involved in energy metabolism, complement and coagulation cascades, and HIF-1alpha signaling pathways. Interestingly, we found that these pathways are also enriched in T cells from SAA patients by analyzing available single-cell RNA sequencing data. Moreover, CD8(+) T cells from SAA patients contain a highly activated CD38(+) subset, which was increased in the bone marrow of SAA patients and a murine model of SAA. This subset presented enriched genes associated with the glycolysis or gluconeogenesis pathway, HIF-1alpha signaling pathway, and complement associated pathways, all of which were of importance in T-cell activation. In conclusion, our study reveals new pathways that may regulate CD8(+) T-cell activation in SAA patients and provides potential therapeutic targets for SAA treatment.
PXD029398	35059737	Overexpression of Parkin in clear cell renal cell carcinoma decreases tumor aggressiveness by regulating CKS2 levels. 	Overexpression of Parkin in clear cell renal cell carcinoma decreases tumor aggressiveness by regulating CKS2 levels	LC-MS, ccRCC, cell line	Low expression levels of the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase Parkin (PARK2) are exhibited in several cancer entities, including clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC), and are associated with poor prognosis; however, PARK2 can also function as a tumor suppressor gene. The aim of the present study was to thoroughly investigate the effects of PARK2 overexpression in ccRCC cell lines and to determine its effects on malignancy by conducting functional assays such as cell cycle analysis, apoptosis analysis, migration and invasion assays. Furthermore, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to decipher potential targets of PARK2 that may influence the behavior of ccRCC tumor cells. In addition, ccRCC tumor tissues from a patient cohort were examined in tissue microarrays to find correlations between different clinical parameters. In the present study, it was demonstrated that the induction of PARK2 resulted in a less aggressive phenotype, as indicated by lower migration and invasion in ccRCC cell lines. Mass spectrometry revealed decreased levels of 29 proteins in cells with PARK2 overexpression, including CDC28 protein kinase regulatory subunit 2 (CKS2), which is highly expressed in numerous types of cancer. The link between the function of PARK2 as an E3 ubiquitin ligase and the low expression levels of CKS2 was investigated by mutating the catalytic domain of the PARK2 gene, and it was found that the effect of decreased migration was abolished in 786-O and RCC-MH ccRCC cell lines. CKS2 silencing decreased migratory ability of the cells. Furthermore, it was revealed that high CKS2 levels are associated with high tumor grading in patient samples and lower patient survival. In conclusion, the results from the present study indicated that PARK2 may signal via CKS2 to affect tumor behavior. In consequence, CKS2 may be a biomarker in ccRCC and may also serve as potential target for ccRCC therapy.
PXD022723	35061544	Fasting improves therapeutic response in hepatocellular carcinoma through p53-dependent metabolic synergism. 	Fasting reverses drug-resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma through p53-dependent metabolic synergism	HCC, HepG2, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, TP53, sorafenib, starvation, xenografts	Cancer cells voraciously consume nutrients to support their growth, exposing metabolic vulnerabilities that can be therapeutically exploited. Here, we show in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, xenografts, and patient-derived organoids that fasting improves sorafenib efficacy and acts synergistically to sensitize sorafenib-resistant HCC. Mechanistically, sorafenib acts noncanonically as an inhibitor of mitochondrial respiration, causing resistant cells to depend on glycolysis for survival. Fasting, through reduction in glucose and impeded AKT/mTOR signaling, prevents this Warburg shift. Regulating glucose transporter and proapoptotic protein expression, p53 is necessary and sufficient for the sorafenib-sensitizing effect of fasting. p53 is also crucial for fasting-mediated improvement of sorafenib efficacy in an orthotopic HCC mouse model. Together, our data suggest fasting and sorafenib as rational combination therapy for HCC with intact p53 signaling. As HCC therapy is currently severely limited by resistance, these results should instigate clinical studies aimed at improving therapy response in advanced-stage HCC.
PXD028925	35061886	SFPQ-ABL1 and BCR-ABL1 use different signaling networks to drive B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 	SFPQ-ABL1 and BCR-ABL1 utilise different signalling networks to drive B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukaemia	ABL1, AML, BCR, Leukaemia, SFPQ	Philadelphia-like (Ph-like) acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is a high-risk subtype of B-cell ALL characterized by a gene expression profile resembling Philadelphia chromosome-positive ALL (Ph+ ALL) in the absence of BCR-ABL1. Tyrosine kinase-activating fusions, some involving ABL1, are recurrent drivers of Ph-like ALL and are targetable with tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs). We identified a rare instance of SFPQ-ABL1 in a child with Ph-like ALL. SFPQ-ABL1 expressed in cytokine-dependent cell lines was sufficient to transform cells and these cells were sensitive to ABL1-targeting TKIs. In contrast to BCR-ABL1, SFPQ-ABL1 localized to the nuclear compartment and was a weaker driver of cellular proliferation. Phosphoproteomics analysis showed upregulation of cell cycle, DNA replication, and spliceosome pathways, and downregulation of signal transduction pathways, including ErbB, NF-kappaB, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), and MAPK signaling in SFPQ-ABL1-expressing cells compared with BCR-ABL1-expressing cells. SFPQ-ABL1 expression did not activate phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) signaling and was associated with phosphorylation of G2/M cell cycle proteins. SFPQ-ABL1 was sensitive to navitoclax and S-63845 and promotes cell survival by maintaining expression of Mcl-1 and Bcl-xL. SFPQ-ABL1 has functionally distinct mechanisms by which it drives ALL, including subcellular localization, proliferative capacity, and activation of cellular pathways. These findings highlight the role that fusion partners have in mediating the function of ABL1 fusions.
PXD027922	35065288	Clues from the intestinal mucus proteome of Atlantic salmon to counter inflammation. 	Clues from the intestinal mucus proteome of Atlantic salmon to counter inflammation	Atlantic salmon, Glutamine synthetase, Glycogen phosphorylase, aminacyl-tRNA ligases, intestinal inflammation, mucus proteome, ribosomal proteins, soy saponin	Intestinal inflammation in Atlantic salmon was studied by profiling the intestine mucus proteome, employing iTRAQ and 2D LC-MS/MS approach. Two fish groups were fed soy saponin-containing (inflammation inducer) diets (SO and SP) and two control fish groups were fed diets devoid of soy saponin (CO and CP) for 36 days. The CP and SP diets contained a health additive. Inflammation characteristics in the intestine were milder in the SP-fed fish compared to the SO-fed fish. The SO group was characterised by alterations of many proteins. KEGG pathways such as phagosome and lipid binding were possibly affected in the SO group due to the higher abundant proteins like Integrin beta 2 precursor, Coronin 1A, Cathepsin S precursor, Vesicle-trafficking protein, and Neutrophil cytosol factors. On the other hand, the SP group had fewer altered proteins and inflammation characteristics; aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis and ribosome in the fish group were plausibly changed due to the higher abundance of many large and small subunit of ribosomes. Elevation of the abundance of ribosomal proteins, aminoacyl-tRNA ligases, and appropriate abundance of Glycogen phosphorylase and Glutamine synthetase could possibly alleviate intestinal inflammation. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD027922 and PXD029849. SIGNIFICANCE: Intestinal inflammation, caused by dietary factors, can be considered as a non-infectious disease. Hence, researchers are gathering clues to avert the associated health issues. The present study was conducted to infer the alterations in the intestine mucus proteome induced by a dietary health additive to counter intestinal inflammation in farmed Atlantic salmon. The reduction in the number of affected proteins and their alterations point to mechanisms evoked by the premix. Our knowledge on inflammation associated proteome in fish is limited and the present study not only highlights the changes, but also opens the possibility to avert the dysfunction of the organ through a dietary approach.
PXD028584	35065666	Novel gamma-sarcoglycan interactors in murine muscle membranes. 	Sarcoglycan interactions in murine muscle membranes	Limb Girdle Muscular Dystrophy, archvillin, immunoaffinity purification, membrane biochemistry, muscle proteomics, protein-protein interactions, sarcoglycan complex, sarcolemma, shotgun proteomics, skeletal muscle	BACKGROUND: The sarcoglycan complex (SC) is part of a network that links the striated muscle cytoskeleton to the basal lamina across the sarcolemma. The SC coordinates changes in phosphorylation and Ca(++)-flux during mechanical deformation, and these processes are disrupted with loss-of-function mutations in gamma-sarcoglycan (Sgcg) that cause Limb girdle muscular dystrophy 2C/R5. METHODS: To gain insight into how the SC mediates mechano-signaling in muscle, we utilized LC-MS/MS proteomics of SC-associated proteins in immunoprecipitates from enriched sarcolemmal fractions. Criteria for inclusion were co-immunoprecipitation with anti-Sgcg from C57BL/6 control muscle and under-representation in parallel experiments with Sgcg-null muscle and with non-specific IgG. Validation of interaction was performed in co-expression experiments in human RH30 rhabdomyosarcoma cells. RESULTS: We identified 19 candidates as direct or indirect interactors for Sgcg, including the other 3 SC proteins. Novel potential interactors included protein-phosphatase-1-catalytic-subunit-beta (Ppp1cb, PP1b) and Na(+)-K(+)-Cl(-)-co-transporter NKCC1 (SLC12A2). NKCC1 co-localized with Sgcg after co-expression in human RH30 rhabdomyosarcoma cells, and its cytosolic domains depleted Sgcg from cell lysates upon immunoprecipitation and co-localized with Sgcg after detergent permeabilization. NKCC1 localized in proximity to the dystrophin complex at costameres in vivo. Bumetanide inhibition of NKCC1 cotransporter activity in isolated muscles reduced SC-dependent, strain-induced increases in phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 (ERK1/2). In silico analysis suggests that candidate SC interactors may cross-talk with survival signaling pathways, including p53, estrogen receptor, and TRIM25. CONCLUSIONS: Results support that NKCC1 is a new SC-associated signaling protein. Moreover, the identities of other candidate SC interactors suggest ways by which the SC and NKCC1, along with other Sgcg interactors such as the membrane-cytoskeleton linker archvillin, may regulate kinase- and Ca(++)-mediated survival signaling in skeletal muscle.
PXD028541	35065923	Lipid droplet-mitochondria coupling via perilipin 5 augments respiratory capacity but is dispensable for FA oxidation. 	Perilipin 5-mediated lipid droplet-mitochondria coupling determines mitochondrial capacity	PLIN5, fatty acid metabolism, lipid droplet, mitochondria	Disturbances in lipid homeostasis can cause mitochondrial dysfunction and lipotoxicity. Perilipin 5 (PLIN5) decorates intracellular lipid droplets (LDs) in oxidative tissues and controls triacylglycerol (TG) turnover via its interactions with adipose triglyceride lipase and the adipose triglyceride lipase coactivator, comparative gene identification-58. Furthermore, PLIN5 anchors mitochondria to the LD membrane via the outermost part of the carboxyl terminus. However, the role of this LD-mitochondria coupling (LDMC) in cellular energy catabolism is less established. In this study, we investigated the impact of PLIN5-mediated LDMC in comparison to disrupted LDMC on cellular TG homeostasis, FA oxidation, mitochondrial respiration, and protein interaction. To do so, we established PLIN5 mutants deficient in LDMC whilst maintaining normal interactions with key lipolytic players. Radiotracer studies with cell lines stably overexpressing wild-type or truncated PLIN5 revealed that LDMC has no significant impact on FA esterification upon lipid loading or TG catabolism during stimulated lipolysis. Moreover, we demonstrated that LDMC exerts a minor if any role in mitochondrial FA oxidation. In contrast, LDMC significantly improved the mitochondrial respiratory capacity and metabolic flexibility of lipid-challenged cardiomyocytes, which was corroborated by LDMC-dependent interactions of PLIN5 with mitochondrial proteins involved in mitochondrial respiration, dynamics, and cristae organization. Taken together, this study suggests that PLIN5 preserves mitochondrial function by adjusting FA supply via the regulation of TG hydrolysis and that LDMC is a vital part of mitochondrial integrity.
PXD029552	35065968	New insights into the type A glycan modification of Clostridioides difficile flagellar protein flagellin C by phosphoproteomics analysis. 	C. difficile strain 630 flagellin C modifications	C. difficile, flagellin, phosphoproteomics	The type A glycan modification found in human pathogen Clostridioides difficile consists of a monosaccharide (GlcNAc) that is linked to an N-methylated threonine through a phosphodiester bond. This structure has previously been described on the flagellar protein flagellin C of several C. difficile strains and is important for bacterial motility. The study of post-translational modifications often relies on some type of enrichment strategy; however, a procedure for enrichment of this modification has not yet been demonstrated. In this study, we show that an approach that is commonly used in phosphoproteomics, Fe(3+)-immobilized metal affinity chromatography, also enriches for peptides with this unique post-translational modification. Using LC-MS/MS analyses of immobilized metal affinity chromatography-captured tryptic peptides, we observed not only type A-modified C. difficile flagellin peptides but also a variety of truncated/modified type A structures on these peptides. Using an elaborate set of mass spectrometry analyses, we demonstrate that one of these modifications consists of a type A structure containing a phosphonate (2-aminoethylphosphonate), a modification that is rarely observed and has hitherto not been described in C. difficile. In conclusion, we show that a common enrichment strategy results in reliable identification of peptides carrying a type A glycan modification, and that the results obtained can be used to advance models about its biosynthesis.
PXD021994	35066208	Using single cell type proteomics to identify Al-induced proteomes in outer layer cells and interior tissues in the apical meristem/cell division regions of tomato root-tips. 	Proteomics studies of outer and inner cellular layers of tomato root-tips for Al stress	Aluminum toxicity, Laser Capture Microdissection, Outer and inner cellular layers of root-tips, TMT proteomics	Aluminum (Al) toxicity primarily targets the root tips, inhibiting root growth and function and leading to crop yield losses on acidic soils. Previously we reported using laser capture microdissection (LCM) proteomics to identify Al-induced proteins in the outer layer cells in the transitional zone of tomato root-tips. This study aims to further characterize Al-induced proteomic dynamics from the outer to interior tissues, thus providing a panoramic view reflecting Al resistance in the root tip as a whole in tomatoes. Three types of cells were isolated via LCM from the basal 350-400 mum (below cell elongation regions) of root tips using tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) 'Micro-Tom' plants. Type I and Type II were from Al-treated plants. Type I included cells of the outer three layers, i.e., the epidermis and cortex initials and the quiescent center (QC) in root apical meristem (RAM), and Type II possessed the interior tissues of the same region. Type III contained cells from the non-Al-treated root tips collected in the same region as Type I. Two tandem mass tag (TMT) proteomics analyses with three biological replicates for each sample type were conducted. The TMTexp1 (comparing Type I and Type II) identified 6575 quantifiable proteins and 178 different abundance proteins (DAPs). The TMTexp2 (comparing Type I and Type III) identified 7197 quantifiable proteins and 162 DAPs. Among all quantified proteins (7685) from the two TMT experiments, 6088 (79%) proteins, including 313 DAPs (92% of the 340 total), were identified in all tissues. A model reflecting the tissue-specific Al-resistance mechanism was proposed, in which the level of the citrate transporter MATE protein, involved in Al exclusion, accumulated to the highest level in the outer-layer cells but decreased toward the interior of root-tips (which concurs with the tissue-specific importance in Al resistance). Proteins for biosynthesis of ethylene and jasmonic acid, proteolytic enzymes, stress-responsive proteins, and cell wall modeling were affected by Al treatment, some in a cell type-specific manner. The KEGG metabolite pathways enriched with these DAPs changed depending on the cell types. This study demonstrated the advantage of using the tissue/cell-specific analysis for identifying proteins and their dynamic changes directly associated with Al resistance in the root-tip region. The proteomics datasets have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository (https://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/) with the dataset identifier as PXD021994 under project title: Proteomics studies of outer and inner cellular layers of tomato root-tips for Al stress, Project DOI: 10.6019/ PXD021994; and PXD018234 under Project title: Al-induced root proteomics changes in stress-acclimated tomato plant, Project DOI: https://doi.org/10.6019/PXD018234. SIGNIFICANCE: This paper presents the method of using laser capture microdissection (LCM) to collect homogenous cell-type specific tissue samples from the outer layers and inner central regions of tomato root-tips. The tandem mass tag-proteomics analysis showed that the outer-layer cells expressed proteomes that were different from the inner tissues of Al-treated root-tips; proteins related to resistance/tolerance to Al toxicity were highly accumulated in the outer-layer cells. Furthermore, the Al-treated outer-layer cells expressed proteomes which were different from the non-Al treated counterpart cells. This study has provided the first dataset of proteins differentiating from the outer to inner layers of cells in Al-treated root-tips. It provided convincing experimental evidences demonstrating the single-cell type proteomics as a powerful analytical approach to identify Al tolerance mechanisms in plants. The analytical procedure of LCM-tandem mass tag-quantitative proteomics analysis has a broad application for proteomics analysis of spatially separated cells in complex tissues.
PXD028897	35071040	Biological and Molecular Effects of Trypanosoma cruzi Residence in a LAMP-Deficient Intracellular Environment. 	Proteomic analysis of the membrane-enriched fraction of trypomastigostes released from wild type, LAMP1/2 KO or LAMP2 KO fibroblasts	TMT labeling, Trypanosoma cruzi, membrane-enriched fraction	Trypanosoma cruzi invades non-professional phagocytic cells by subverting their membrane repair process, which is dependent on membrane injury and cell signaling, intracellular calcium increase, and lysosome recruitment. Cells lacking lysosome-associated membrane proteins 1 and 2 (LAMP1 and LAMP2) are less permissive to parasite invasion but more prone to parasite intracellular multiplication. Several passages through a different intracellular environment can significantly change T. cruzi's gene expression profile. Here, we evaluated whether one single passage through LAMP-deficient (KO) or wild-type (WT) fibroblasts, thus different intracellular environments, could influence T. cruzi Y strain trypomastigotes' ability to invade L6 myoblasts and WT fibroblasts host cells. Parasites released from LAMP2 KO cells (TcY-L2(-/-)) showed higher invasion, calcium signaling, and membrane injury rates, for the assays in L6 myoblasts, when compared to those released from WT (TcY-WT) or LAMP1/2 KO cells (TcY-L1/2(-/-)). On the other hand, TcY-L1/2(-/-) showed higher invasion, calcium signaling, and cell membrane injury rates, for the assays in WT fibroblasts, compared to TcY-WT and TcY-L1/2(-/-). Albeit TcY-WT presented an intermediary invasion and calcium signaling rates, compared to the others, in WT fibroblasts, they induced lower levels of injury, which reinforces that signals mediated by surface membrane protein interactions also have a significant contribution to trigger host cell calcium signals. These results clearly show that parasites released from WT or LAMP KO cells are distinct from each other. Additionally, these parasites' ability to invade the cell may be distinct depending on which cell type they interact with. Since these alterations most likely would reflect differences among parasite surface molecules, we also evaluated their proteome. We identified few protein complexes, membrane, and secreted proteins regulated in our dataset. Among those are some members of MASP, mucins, trans-sialidases, and gp63 proteins family, which are known to play an important role during parasite infection and could correlate to TcY-WT, TcY-L1/2(-/-), and TcY-L2(-/-) biological behavior.
PXD030784	35073098	MetaNetwork Enhances Biological Insights from Quantitative Proteomics Differences by Combining Clustering and Enrichment Analyses. 	MetaNetwork Enhances Biological Insights from Quantitative Proteomics Differences by Combining Clustering and Enrichment Analyses	analysis, cancer, network, prostate	Interpreting proteomics data remains challenging due to the large number of proteins that are quantified by modern mass spectrometry methods. Weighted gene correlation network analysis (WGCNA) can identify groups of biologically related proteins using only protein intensity values by constructing protein correlation networks. However, WGCNA is not widespread in proteomic analyses due to challenges in implementing workflows. To facilitate the adoption of WGCNA by the proteomics field, we created MetaNetwork, an open-source, R-based application to perform sophisticated WGCNA workflows with no coding skill requirements for the end user. We demonstrate MetaNetwork's utility by employing it to identify groups of proteins associated with prostate cancer from a proteomic analysis of tumor and adjacent normal tissue samples. We found a decrease in cytoskeleton-related protein expression, a known hallmark of prostate tumors. We further identified changes in module eigenproteins indicative of dysregulation in protein translation and trafficking pathways. These results demonstrate the value of using MetaNetwork to improve the biological interpretation of quantitative proteomics experiments with 15 or more samples.
PXD028895	35073553	Urine Proteomics for Noninvasive Monitoring of Biomarkers in Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia. 	Urine Proteomics for Noninvasive Monitoring of Biomarkers in Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia	chronic lung disease, extremely low gestational age newborn	INTRODUCTION: Current techniques to diagnose and/or monitor critically ill neonates with bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) require invasive sampling of body fluids, which is suboptimal in these frail neonates. We tested our hypothesis that it is feasible to use noninvasively collected urine samples for proteomics from extremely low gestational age newborns (ELGANs) at risk for BPD to confirm previously identified proteins and biomarkers associated with BPD. METHODS: We developed a robust high-throughput urine proteomics methodology that requires only 50 muL of urine. We utilized the methodology with a proof-of-concept study validating proteins previously identified in invasively collected sample types such as blood and/or tracheal aspirates on urine collected within 72 h of birth from ELGANs (gestational age [26 +/- 1.2] weeks) who were admitted to a single Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), half of whom eventually developed BPD (n = 21), while the other half served as controls (n = 21). RESULTS: Our high-throughput urine proteomics approach clearly identified several BPD-associated changes in the urine proteome recapitulating expected blood proteome changes, and several urinary proteins predicted BPD risk. Interestingly, 16 of the identified urinary proteins are known targets of drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration. CONCLUSION: In addition to validating numerous proteins, previously found in invasively collected blood, tracheal aspirate, and bronchoalveolar lavage, that have been implicated in BPD pathophysiology, urine proteomics also suggested novel potential therapeutic targets. Ease of access to urine could allow for sequential proteomic evaluations for longitudinal monitoring of disease progression and impact of therapeutic intervention in future studies.
PXD026020	35073946	SMARCA5 interacts with NUP98-NSD1 oncofusion protein and sustains hematopoietic cells transformation. 	NUP98-NSD1 its mutated forms interactome	AML, SMARCA5, interactome, phase separation	BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is characterized by accumulation of aberrantly differentiated hematopoietic myeloid progenitor cells. The karyotyping-silent NUP98-NSD1 fusion is a molecular hallmark of pediatric AML and is associated with the activating FLT3-ITD mutation in > 70% of the cases. NUP98-NSD1 fusion protein promotes myeloid progenitor self-renewal in mice via unknown molecular mechanism requiring both the NUP98 and the NSD1 moieties. METHODS: We used affinity purification coupled to label-free mass spectrometry (AP-MS) to examine the effect of NUP98-NSD1 structural domain deletions on nuclear interactome binding. We determined their functional relevance in NUP98-NSD1 immortalized primary murine hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPC) by inducible knockdown, pharmacological targeting, methylcellulose assay, RT-qPCR analysis and/or proximity ligation assays (PLA). Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching and b-isoxazole assay were performed to examine the phase transition capacity of NUP98-NSD1 in vitro and in vivo. RESULTS: We show that NUP98-NSD1 core interactome binding is largely dependent on the NUP98 phenylalanine-glycine (FG) repeat domains which mediate formation of liquid-like phase-separated NUP98-NSD1 nuclear condensates. We identified condensate constituents including imitation switch (ISWI) family member SMARCA5 and BPTF (bromodomain PHD finger transcription factor), both members of the nucleosome remodeling factor complex (NURF). We validated the interaction with SMARCA5 in NUP98-NSD1(+) patient cells and demonstrated its functional role in NUP98-NSD1/FLT3-ITD immortalized primary murine hematopoietic cells by genetic and pharmacological targeting. Notably, SMARCA5 inhibition did not affect NUP98-NSD1 condensates suggesting that functional activity rather than condensate formation per se is crucial to maintain the transformed phenotype. CONCLUSIONS: NUP98-NSD1 interacts and colocalizes on the genome with SMARCA5 which is an essential mediator of the NUP98-NSD1 transformation in hematopoietic cells. Formation of NUP98-NSD1 phase-separated nuclear condensates is not sufficient for the maintenance of transformed phenotype, which suggests that selective targeting of condensate constituents might represent a new therapeutic strategy for NUP98-NSD1 driven AML.
PXD029380	35074002	Proteomic profiling in cerebral amyloid angiopathy reveals an overlap with CADASIL highlighting accumulation of HTRA1 and its substrates. 	Proteome analysis of microvessels from CAA and AD patients	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), CADASIL, HTRA1, ProteomeXchange project tag: Protein Misfolding and Aggregation (B/D-HPP), cerebral amyloid angiopathy, cerebral small vessel disease, proteostasis	Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is an age-related condition and a major cause of intracerebral hemorrhage and cognitive decline that shows close links with Alzheimer's disease (AD). CAA is characterized by the aggregation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides and formation of Abeta deposits in the brain vasculature resulting in a disruption of the angioarchitecture. Capillaries are a critical site of Abeta pathology in CAA type 1 and become dysfunctional during disease progression. Here, applying an advanced protocol for the isolation of parenchymal microvessels from post-mortem brain tissue combined with liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), we determined the proteomes of CAA type 1 cases (n = 12) including a patient with hereditary cerebral hemorrhage with amyloidosis-Dutch type (HCHWA-D), and of AD cases without microvascular amyloid pathology (n = 13) in comparison to neurologically healthy controls (n = 12). ELISA measurements revealed microvascular Abeta1-40 levels to be exclusively enriched in CAA samples (mean: > 3000-fold compared to controls). The proteomic profile of CAA type 1 was characterized by massive enrichment of multiple predominantly secreted proteins and showed significant overlap with the recently reported brain microvascular proteome of patients with cerebral autosomal-dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), a hereditary cerebral small vessel disease (SVD) characterized by the aggregation of the Notch3 extracellular domain. We found this overlap to be largely attributable to the accumulation of high-temperature requirement protein A1 (HTRA1), a serine protease with an established role in the brain vasculature, and several of its substrates. Notably, this signature was not present in AD cases. We further show that HTRA1 co-localizes with Abeta deposits in brain capillaries from CAA type 1 patients indicating a pathologic recruitment process. Together, these findings suggest a central role of HTRA1-dependent protein homeostasis in the CAA microvasculature and a molecular connection between multiple types of brain microvascular disease.
PXD025408	35075190	Tear proteomics reveals the molecular basis of the efficacy of human recombinant nerve growth factor treatment for Neurotrophic Keratopathy. 	Tear proteomics reveals the molecular basis of the efficacy of human recombinant nerve growth factor treatment for Neurotrophic Keratopathy	Extracellular Vesicles, NGF, Neurotrophic Keratopathy, Tear	Neurotrophic Keratopathy (NK), classified as an orphan disease (ORPHA137596), is a rare degenerative corneal disease characterized by epithelial instability and decreased corneal sensitivity caused by the damage to the corneal nerves. The administration of human recombinant nerve growth factor (rhNGF) eye drops, as a licensed-in-Europe specific medication for treatment of moderate and severe NK, has added promising perspectives to the management of this disorder by providing a valid alternative to the neurotization surgery. However, few studies have been conducted to the molecular mechanism underlying the response to the treatment. Here, we carried out tears proteomics to highlight the protein expression during pharmacological treatment of NK (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD025408).Our data emphasized a proteome modulation during rhNGF treatment related to an increase in DNA synthesis, an activation of both BDNF signal and IL6 receptor. Furthermore, the amount of neuronal Extracellular Vesicles EVs (CD171+) correlated with the EVs carrying IL6R (CD126+) together associated to the inflammatory EVs (CD45+) in tears. Such scenario determined drug response, confirmed by an in vivo confocal microscopy analysis, showing an increase in length, density and number of nerve fiber branches during treatment. In summary, rhNGF treatment seems to determine an inflammatory micro-environment, mediated by functionalized EVs, defining the drug response by stimulating protein synthesis and fiber regeneration.
PXD026468	35075221	A large scale mass spectrometry-based histone screening for assessing epigenetic developmental toxicity. 	Large scale toxicoepigenetics on histones: a mass spectrometry-based screening assay applied to developmental toxicity	Histone post-translational modifications, developmental toxicity, drug screening, toxicoepigenetics	Toxicoepigenetics is an emerging field that studies the toxicological impact of compounds on protein expression through heritable, non-genetic mechanisms, such as histone post-translational modifications (hPTMs). Due to substantial progress in the large-scale study of hPTMs, integration into the field of toxicology is promising and offers the opportunity to gain novel insights into toxicological phenomena. Moreover, there is a growing demand for high-throughput human-based in vitro assays for toxicity testing, especially for developmental toxicity. Consequently, we developed a mass spectrometry-based proof-of-concept to assess a histone code screening assay capable of simultaneously detecting multiple hPTM-changes in human embryonic stem cells. We first validated the untargeted workflow with valproic acid (VPA), a histone deacetylase inhibitor. These results demonstrate the capability of mapping the hPTM-dynamics, with a general increase in acetylations as an internal control. To illustrate the scalability, a dose-response study was performed on a proof-of-concept library of ten compounds (1) with a known effect on the hPTMs (BIX-01294, 3-Deazaneplanocin A, Trichostatin A, and VPA), (2) classified as highly embryotoxic by the European Centre for the Validation of Alternative Methods (ECVAM) (Methotrexate, and All-trans retinoic acid), (3) classified as non-embryotoxic by ECVAM (Penicillin G), and (4) compounds of abuse with a presumed developmental toxicity (ethanol, caffeine, and nicotine).
PXD030746	35076138	Gold micro-particles for knee osteoarthritis. 	Data in support of Gold micro-particles for knee osteoarthritisGold micro-particles for knee osteoarthritis	gold, inflammation, osteoartritits, pain	BACKGROUND: This exploratory study investigates if intra-articular injected gold microparticles in knee osteoarthritis (KOA) reduce immunomodulatory-based pain via proteomic changes in the synovial fluid (SF) and serum. METHODS: Thirty patients with moderate KOA were included. Intraarticular injections with 20 mg gold microparticles (72.000 particles, 20-40 microm in diameter) using the patient's synovial fluid (SF) as carrier were performed. Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) subscores for pain, stiffness, and function were assessed at inclusion, 8 weeks and 2 years The PainDetect questionnaire, pain pressure threshold (PPT), temporal summation (TS), and conditioned pain modulation (CPM), and pain diary were assessed at inclusion and 8 weeks. Proteome analysis was performed on SF and blood samples before and after 8 weeks of treatment. RESULTS: A decrease in WOMAC scores (pain (p = 0.0001), stiffness (p = 0.0088), activity (p = 0.0001)), PainDetect (p = 0.0002) and increase in PPT (p = 0.001) and CPM (p = 0.021) and a decrease in TS (p = 0.03) were found after 8 weeks compared to inclusion assessments. At 2 years follow-up compared to baseline there was a decrease in WOMAC scores (pain (p = 0.0001), stiffness (p = 0.007), activity (p = 0.0001)) and PainDetect (p = 0.0001). In SF, 28 different proteins were downregulated and 11 upregulated (p < 0.05) mainly associated immune response. Similarly, 31 proteins were downregulated and 1 upregulated in serum (p < 0.05) reflecting key immune response and anatomical structure development processes. No adverse effects related to the treatment were recorded. CONCLUSIONS: Gold microparticles injected intra-articular in KOA joints may provide pain relief and an inflammatory modulatory effect based on proteome changes found in SF and serum. A randomized, controlled, double-blind study is needed to infer a conclusion. SIGNIFICANCE: This study indicates that intra-articular gold may provide advantages in clinical practice for managing knee osteoarthritic pain. The use of intraarticular gold can add new knowledge to the treatment of inflammation and pain.
PXD024005	35076266	Proteomics and Transcriptomics Uncover Key Processes for Elasnin Tolerance in Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus. 	Proteome Differences between Daptomycin-Resistant and WT MRSA Biofilms after Elasnin Treatment	MRSA, biofilms, daptomycin-resistant, elasnin	Elasnin is a new antibiofilm compound that was recently reported to have excellent activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) biofilms. In this study, we established that elasnin also has antibacterial activity against growing S. aureus planktonic cells. To explore elasnin's potential as an antibiotic, we applied adaptive laboratory evolution (ALE) and produced evolved strains with elevated elasnin tolerance. Interestingly, they were more sensitive toward daptomycin and lysostaphin. Whole-genome sequencing revealed that all of the evolved strains possessed a single point mutation in a putative phosphate transport regulator. Subsequently, they exhibited increased intracellular phosphate (Pi) and polyphosphate levels. Inhibition of the phosphate transport regulator gene changed the phenotype of the wild type to one resembling those observed in the evolved strains. Proteomics and transcriptomics analyses showed that elasnin treatment resulted in the downregulation of many proteins related to cell division and cell wall synthesis, which is important for the survival of growing exponential-phase cells. Other downregulated processes and factors were fatty acid metabolism, glycolysis, the two-component system, RNA degradation, and ribosomal proteins. Most importantly, transport proteins and proteins involved in oxidative phosphorylation and the phosphotransferase system were more upregulated in the evolved strain than in the ancestral strain, indicating that they are important for elasnin tolerance. Overall, this study showed that elasnin has antibacterial activity against growing S. aureus cells and revealed the altered processes due to elasnin treatment and those associated with its tolerance. IMPORTANCE Besides the excellent antibiofilm properties of elasnin, we discovered that it can also kill growing methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) planktonic cells. We subjected MRSA cells to an in vitro evolution experiment, and the resulting evolved strains exhibited increased elasnin tolerance, reduced growth rate, loss of pigmentation, and an increased proportion of small-colony formation, and they became more sensitive toward daptomycin and lysostaphin. Through multiomics analysis, we uncovered the affected processes in growing S. aureus planktonic cells following elasnin treatment, including the downregulation of cell wall synthesis, cell division, and some genes/proteins for the two-component system. These findings suggest that elasnin suppressed processes important for the cells' survival and adaptation to environmental stresses, making it an ideal drug adjuvant candidate. Overall, our study provides new insights into the mechanism of elasnin in S. aureus planktonic cells and pointed out the potential application of elasnin in clinics.
PXD022219	35076391	Kidney organoids recapitulate human basement membrane assembly in health and disease. 	Human kidney proteomics, glomerular and tubular cellular and matrix fractions	Kidney, age, glomerular, tubular, tubulointerstitial	Basement membranes (BMs) are complex macromolecular networks underlying all continuous layers of cells. Essential components include collagen IV and laminins, which are affected by human genetic variants leading to a range of debilitating conditions including kidney, muscle, and cerebrovascular phenotypes. We investigated the dynamics of BM assembly in human pluripotent stem cell-derived kidney organoids. We resolved their global BM composition and discovered a conserved temporal sequence in BM assembly that paralleled mammalian fetal kidneys. We identified the emergence of key BM isoforms, which were altered by a pathogenic variant in COL4A5. Integrating organoid, fetal, and adult kidney proteomes, we found dynamic regulation of BM composition through development to adulthood, and with single-cell transcriptomic analysis we mapped the cellular origins of BM components. Overall, we define the complex and dynamic nature of kidney organoid BM assembly and provide a platform for understanding its wider relevance in human development and disease.
PXD028811	35076620	Potential Tear Biomarkers for the Diagnosis of Parkinson's Disease-A Pilot Study. 	Potential tear biomarkers for the early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease- A pilot study	Biomarkers, Parkinson's disease, lysosome, tear film	Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease after Alzheimer's disease. In this study, the tear proteome profile of patients with idiopathic PD (iPD, n = 24), carriers of the E46K-SNCA mutation (n = 3) and healthy control (CT, n = 27) subjects was analyzed to identify candidate biomarkers for the diagnosis of PD. An observational, prospective and case-control pilot study was carried out, analyzing the participants tear samples by nano-liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (nLC-MS/MS) and assessing their neurological impairment. The proteomic data obtained are available at ProteomeXchange with identifier 10.6019/PXD028811. These analyses led to the identification of 560 tear proteins, some of which were deregulated in PD patients and that have been implicated in immune responses, inflammation, apoptosis, collagen degradation, protein synthesis, defense, lipid transport and altered lysosomal function. Of these proteins, six were related to neurodegenerative processes and showed a good capacity to classify patients and controls. These findings revealed that certain proteins were upregulated in the tears of PD patients, mainly proteins involved in lysosomal function. Thus, in this study, tear proteins were identified that are implicated in neurodegeneration and that may be related to an aggressive disease phenotype in PD patients.
PXD014765	35076627	Comparison of Different Label-Free Techniques for the Semi-Absolute Quantification of Protein Abundance. 	Approaching absolute quantification using label-free approaches and external proteins standards in yeast cultures	Absolute quantification, Chemostats, Saccharomyces, UPS	In proteomics, it is essential to quantify proteins in absolute terms if we wish to compare results among studies and integrate high-throughput biological data into genome-scale metabolic models. While labeling target peptides with stable isotopes allow protein abundance to be accurately quantified, the utility of this technique is constrained by the low number of quantifiable proteins that it yields. Recently, label-free shotgun proteomics has become the "gold standard" for carrying out global assessments of biological samples containing thousands of proteins. However, this tool must be further improved if we wish to accurately quantify absolute levels of proteins. Here, we used different label-free quantification techniques to estimate absolute protein abundance in the model yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. More specifically, we evaluated the performance of seven different quantification methods, based either on spectral counting (SC) or extracted-ion chromatogram (XIC), which were applied to samples from five different proteome backgrounds. We also compared the accuracy and reproducibility of two strategies for transforming relative abundance into absolute abundance: a UPS2-based strategy and the total protein approach (TPA). This study mentions technical challenges related to UPS2 use and proposes ways of addressing them, including utilizing a smaller, more highly optimized amount of UPS2. Overall, three SC-based methods (PAI, SAF, and NSAF) yielded the best results because they struck a good balance between experimental performance and protein quantification.
PXD029704	35077711	Intricate coupling between the transactivation and basic-leucine zipper domains governs phosphorylation of transcription factor ATF4 by casein kinase 2. 	Intricate coupling between the transactivation and basic-leucine zipper domains governs the CK2-dependent phosphorylation of ATF4	ATF4, intrinsically disordered domain, phosphorylation	Most transcription factors possess at least one long intrinsically disordered transactivation domain that binds to a variety of coactivators and corepressors and plays a key role in modulating the transcriptional activity. Despite the crucial importance of these domains, the structural and functional basis of transactivation remains poorly understood. Here, we focused on activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4)/cAMP response element-binding protein-2, an essential transcription factor for cellular stress adaptation. Bioinformatic sequence analysis of the ATF4 transactivation domain sequence revealed that the first 125 amino acids have noticeably less propensity for structural disorder than the rest of the domain. Using solution nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy complemented by a range of biophysical methods, we found that the isolated transactivation domain is predominantly yet not fully disordered in solution. We also observed that a short motif at the N-terminus of the transactivation domain has a high helical propensity. Importantly, we found that the N-terminal region of the transactivation domain is involved in transient long-range interactions with the basic-leucine zipper domain involved in DNA binding. Finally, in vitro phosphorylation assays with the casein kinase 2 show that the presence of the basic-leucine zipper domain is required for phosphorylation of the transactivation domain. This study uncovers the intricate coupling existing between the transactivation and basic-leucine zipper domains of ATF4, highlighting its potential regulatory significance.
PXD027633	35078505	The essential roles of m(6)A RNA modification to stimulate ENO1-dependent glycolysis and tumorigenesis in lung adenocarcinoma. 	proteomics of m6A-High and m6A-Low LUAD tissues	LUAD, m6A	BACKGROUND: Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD)  is the most common subtype of lung cancer. Patient prognosis is poor, and the existing therapeutic strategies for LUAD are far from satisfactory. Recently, targeting N6-methyladenosine (m(6)A) modification of RNA has been suggested as a potential strategy to impede tumor progression. However, the roles of m(6)A modification in LUAD tumorigenesis is unknown. METHODS: Global m(6)A levels and expressions of m(6)A writers, erasers and readers were evaluated by RNA methylation assay, dot blot, immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry and ELISA in human LUAD, mouse models and cell lines. Cell viability, 3D-spheroid generation, in vivo LUAD formation, experiments in cell- and patient-derived xenograft mice and survival analysis were conducted to explore the impact of m(6)A on LUAD. The RNA-protein interactions, translation, putative m(6)A sites and glycolysis were explored in the investigation of the mechanism underlying how m(6)A stimulates tumorigenesis. RESULTS: The elevation of global m(6)A level in most human LUAD specimens resulted from the combined upregulation of m(6)A writer methyltransferase 3 (METTL3) and downregulation of eraser alkB homolog 5 (ALKBH5). Elevated global m(6)A level was associated with a poor overall survival in LUAD patients. Reducing m(6)A levels by knocking out METTL3 and overexpressing ALKBH5 suppressed 3D-spheroid generation in LUAD cells and intra-pulmonary tumor formation in mice. Mechanistically, m(6)A-dependent stimulation of glycolysis and tumorigenesis occurred via enolase 1 (ENO1). ENO1 mRNA was m(6)A methylated at 359 A, which facilitated it's binding with the m(6)A reader YTH N6-methyladenosine RNA binding protein 1 (YTHDF1) and resulted in enhanced translation of ENO1. ENO1 positively correlated with METTL3 and global m(6)A levels, and negatively correlated with ALKBH5 in human LUAD. In addition, m(6)A-dependent elevation of ENO1 was associated with LUAD progression. In preclinical models, tumors with a higher global m(6)A level showed a more sensitive response to the inhibition of pan-methylation, glycolysis and ENO activity in LUAD. CONCLUSIONS: The m(6)A-dependent stimulation of glycolysis and tumorigenesis in LUAD is at least partially orchestrated by the upregulation of METTL3, downregulation of ALKBH5, and stimulation of YTHDF1-mediated ENO1 translation. Blocking this mechanism may represent a potential treatment strategy for m(6)A-dependent LUAD.
PXD027595	35078919	Extracellular vimentin is an attachment factor that facilitates SARS-CoV-2 entry into human endothelial cells. 	LC-MS/MS data of Extracellular Vimentin	SARS-CoV-2, SARS-CoV-2 receptor, Vimentin, attachment factor, spike protein	SARS-CoV-2 entry into host cells is a crucial step for virus tropism, transmission, and pathogenesis. Angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) has been identified as the primary entry receptor for SARS-CoV-2; however, the possible involvement of other cellular components in the viral entry has not yet been fully elucidated. Here we describe the identification of vimentin (VIM), an intermediate filament protein widely expressed in cells of mesenchymal origin, as an important attachment factor for SARS-CoV-2 on human endothelial cells. Using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, we identified VIM as a protein that binds to the SARS-CoV-2 spike (S) protein. We showed that the S-protein receptor binding domain (RBD) is sufficient for S-protein interaction with VIM. Further analysis revealed that extracellular VIM binds to SARS-CoV-2 S-protein and facilitates SARS-CoV-2 infection, as determined by entry assays performed with pseudotyped viruses expressing S and with infectious SARS-CoV-2. Coexpression of VIM with ACE2 increased SARS-CoV-2 entry in HEK-293 cells, and shRNA-mediated knockdown of VIM significantly reduced SARS-CoV-2 infection of human endothelial cells. Moreover, incubation of A549 cells expressing ACE2 with purified VIM increased pseudotyped SARS-CoV-2-S entry. CR3022 antibody, which recognizes a distinct epitope on SARS-CoV-2-S-RBD without interfering with the binding of the spike with ACE2, inhibited the binding of VIM with CoV-2 S-RBD, and neutralized viral entry in human endothelial cells, suggesting a key role for VIM in SARS-CoV-2 infection of endothelial cells. This work provides insight into the pathogenesis of COVID-19 linked to the vascular system, with implications for the development of therapeutics and vaccines.
PXD023025	35080992	Ovarian carcinoma immunoreactive antigen-like protein 2 (OCIAD2) is a novel complex III-specific assembly factor in mitochondria. 	Human OCIAD2 binding partners and the effect of OCIAD2 depletion on mitochondrial protein levels	OCIAD2, OxPhos Complex III, mitochondria, oxidative phosphorylation	Assembly of the dimeric complex III (CIII2) in the mitochondrial inner membrane is an intricate process in which several accessory proteins are involved as assembly factors. Despite numerous studies, this process has yet to be fully understood. Here we report the identification of human OCIAD2 (ovarian carcinoma immunoreactive antigen-like protein 2) as an assembly factor for CIII2. OCIAD2 was found to be deregulated in several carcinomas and also in some neurogenerative disorders; however, its nonpathological role had not been elucidated.  We have shown that OCIAD2 localizes to mitochondria and interacts with electron transport chain (ETC) proteins. Complete loss of OCIAD2 using gene editing in HEK293 cells resulted in abnormal mitochondrial morphology, a substantial decrease of both CIII2 and supercomplex III2+IV, and a reduction in CIII enzymatic activity. Identification of OCIAD2 as a protein required for assembly of functional CIII2 provides a new insight into the biogenesis and architecture of the ETC. Elucidating the mechanism of OCIAD2 action is important both for the understanding of cellular metabolism and for an understanding of its role in malignant transformation.
PXD027516	35081689	Syntaxin 5 determines Weibel-Palade body size and von Willebrand factor secretion by controlling Golgi architecture. 	Syntaxin 5 determines Weibel-Palade body size and Von Willebrand factor secretion by controlling Golgi architecture	Endothelial cells, Von Willebrand factor, Weibel-Palade bodies	Von Willebrand factor (VWF) is a multimeric hemostatic protein primarily synthesized in endothelial cells. VWF is stored in endothelial storage organelles, the Weibel-Palade bodies (WPB), whose biogenesis strongly depends on VWF anterograde trafficking and Golgi architecture. Elongated WPB morphology is correlated to longer VWF strings with better adhesive properties. We previously identified the SNARE SEC22B, which is involved in anterograde endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi transport, as a novel regulator of WPB elongation. To elucidate novel determinants of WPB morphology we explored endothelial SEC22B interaction partners in a mass spectrometry-based approach, identifying the Golgi SNARE Syntaxin 5 (STX5). We established STX5 knockdown in endothelial cells using shRNA-dependent silencing and analyzed WPB and Golgi morphology, using confocal and electron microscopy. STX5-depleted endothelial cells exhibited extensive Golgi fragmentation and decreased WPB length, which was associated with reduced intracellular VWF levels, and impaired stimulated VWF secretion. However, the secretion-incompetent organelles in shSTX5 cells maintained WPB markers such as Angiopoietin 2, P-selectin, Rab27A, and CD63. In brief, we identified SNARE protein STX5 as a novel regulator of WPB biogenesis.
PXD028830	35082147	In situ proximity labeling identifies Lewy pathology molecular interactions in the human brain. 	In Situ Proximity Labeling Identifies Lewy Pathology Molecular Interactions in the Human Brain	Alpha-synuclein, biotinylation by antigen recognition, in situ, lewy pathology, neuropathology	The intracellular misfolding and accumulation of alpha-synuclein into structures collectively called Lewy pathology (LP) is a central phenomenon for the pathogenesis of synucleinopathies, including Parkinson's disease (PD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Understanding the molecular architecture of LP is crucial for understanding synucleinopathy disease origins and progression. Here we used a technique called biotinylation by antibody recognition (BAR) to label total (BAR-SYN1) and pathological alpha-synuclein (BAR-PSER129) in situ for subsequent mass spectrometry analysis. Results showed superior immunohistochemical detection of LP following the BAR-PSER129 protocol, particularly for fibers and punctate pathology within the striatum and cortex. Mass spectrometry analysis of BAR-PSER129-labeled LP identified 261 significantly enriched proteins in the synucleinopathy brain when compared to nonsynucleinopathy brains. In contrast, BAR-SYN1 did not differentiate between disease and nonsynucleinopathy brains. Pathway analysis of BAR-PSER129-enriched proteins revealed enrichment for 718 pathways; notably, the most significant KEGG pathway was PD, and Gene Ontology (GO) cellular compartments were the vesicle, extracellular vesicle, extracellular exosome, and extracellular organelle. Pathway clustering revealed several superpathways, including metabolism, mitochondria, lysosome, and intracellular vesicle transport. Validation of the BAR-PSER129-identified protein hemoglobin beta (HBB) by immunohistochemistry confirmed the interaction of HBB with PSER129 Lewy neurites and Lewy bodies. In summary, BAR can be used to enrich for LP from formalin-fixed human primary tissues, which allowed the determination of molecular signatures of LP. This technique has broad potential to help understand the phenomenon of LP in primary human tissue and animal models.
PXD030722	35082148	Soluble TREM2 inhibits secondary nucleation of Abeta fibrillization and enhances cellular uptake of fibrillar Abeta. 	Soluble TREM2 inhibits secondary nucleation of Abeta fibrillization and enhances cellular uptake of fibrillar Abeta	Amyloid beta, cross-linking, sTREM2	Triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2) is a single-pass transmembrane receptor of the immunoglobulin superfamily that is secreted in a soluble (sTREM2) form. Mutations in TREM2 have been linked to increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A prominent neuropathological component of AD is deposition of the amyloid-beta (Abeta) into plaques, particularly Abeta40 and Abeta42. While the membrane-bound form of TREM2 is known to facilitate uptake of Abeta fibrils and the polarization of microglial processes toward amyloid plaques, the role of its soluble ectodomain, particularly in interactions with monomeric or fibrillar Abeta, has been less clear. Our results demonstrate that sTREM2 does not bind to monomeric Abeta40 and Abeta42, even at a high micromolar concentration, while it does bind to fibrillar Abeta42 and Abeta40 with equal affinities (2.6 +/- 0.3 microM and 2.3 +/- 0.4 microM). Kinetic analysis shows that sTREM2 inhibits the secondary nucleation step in the fibrillization of Abeta, while having little effect on the primary nucleation pathway. Furthermore, binding of sTREM2 to fibrils markedly enhanced uptake of fibrils into human microglial and neuroglioma derived cell lines. The disease-associated sTREM2 mutant, R47H, displayed little to no effect on fibril nucleation and binding, but it decreased uptake and functional responses markedly. We also probed the structure of the WT sTREM2-Abeta fibril complex using integrative molecular modeling based primarily on the cross-linking mass spectrometry data. The model shows that sTREM2 binds fibrils along one face of the structure, leaving a second, mutation-sensitive site free to mediate cellular binding and uptake.
PXD030571	35082167	Inactivation of p21-Activated Kinase 2 (Pak2) Inhibits the Development of Nf2-Deficient Tumors by Restricting Downstream Hedgehog and Wnt Signaling. 	Inactivation of p21-Activated Kinase 2 (Pak2) Inhibits the Development of Nf2-Deficient Tumors by Restricting Downstream Hedgehog and Wnt Signaling	Conditional knockout mice, Hedgehog and Wnt signaling, Nf2 and Cdkn2a tumor suppressor genes, PAK, cancer stem cells, malignant mesothelioma	Because loss of the NF2 tumor suppressor gene results in p21-activated kinase (Pak) activation, PAK inhibitors hold promise for the treatment of NF2-deficient tumors. To test this possibility, we asked if loss of Pak2, a highly expressed group I PAK member, affects the development of malignant mesothelioma in Nf2;Cdkn2a-deficient (NC) mice and the growth properties of NC mesothelioma cells in culture. In vivo, deletion of Pak2 resulted in a markedly decreased incidence and delayed onset of both pleural and peritoneal malignant mesotheliomas in NC mice. In vitro, Pak2 deletion decreased malignant mesothelioma cell viability, migration, clonogenicity, and spheroid formation. RNA-sequencing analysis demonstrated downregulated expression of Hedgehog and Wnt pathway genes in NC;Pak2-/- mesothelioma cells versus NC;Pak2+/+ mesothelioma cells. Targeting of the Hedgehog signaling component Gli1 or its target gene Myc inhibited cell viability and spheroid formation in NC;P+/+ mesothelioma cells. Kinome profiling uncovered kinase changes indicative of EMT in NC;Pak2-/- mesothelioma cells, suggesting that Pak2-deficient malignant mesotheliomas can adapt by reprogramming their kinome in the absence of Pak activity. The identification of such compensatory pathways offers opportunities for rational combination therapies to circumvent resistance to anti-PAK drugs. IMPLICATIONS: We provide evidence supporting a role for PAK inhibitors in treating NF2-deficient tumors. NF2-deficient tumors lacking Pak2 eventually adapt by kinome reprogramming, presenting opportunities for combination therapies to bypass anti-PAK drug resistance.
PXD026638	35082446	Brahma safeguards canalization of cardiac mesoderm differentiation. 	Chromatin remodeler Brahma safeguards labile canalization of cardiac mesoderm differentiation	AP-MS, Cardiac differentiation	Differentiation proceeds along a continuum of increasingly fate-restricted intermediates, referred to as canalization(1,2). Canalization is essential for stabilizing cell fate, but the mechanisms that underlie robust canalization are unclear. Here we show that the BRG1/BRM-associated factor (BAF) chromatin-remodelling complex ATPase gene Brm safeguards cell identity during directed cardiogenesis of mouse embryonic stem cells. Despite the establishment of a well-differentiated precardiac mesoderm, Brm(-/-) cells predominantly became neural precursors, violating germ layer assignment. Trajectory inference showed a sudden acquisition of a non-mesodermal identity in Brm(-/-) cells. Mechanistically, the loss of Brm prevented de novo accessibility of primed cardiac enhancers while increasing the expression of neurogenic factor POU3F1, preventing the binding of the neural suppressor REST and shifting the composition of BRG1 complexes. The identity switch caused by the Brm mutation was overcome by increasing BMP4 levels during mesoderm induction. Mathematical modelling supports these observations and demonstrates that Brm deletion affects cell fate trajectory by modifying saddle-node bifurcations(2). In the mouse embryo, Brm deletion exacerbated mesoderm-deleted Brg1-mutant phenotypes, severely compromising cardiogenesis, and reveals an in vivo role for Brm. Our results show that Brm is a compensable safeguard of the fidelity of mesoderm chromatin states, and support a model in which developmental canalization is not a rigid irreversible path, but a highly plastic trajectory.
PXD030251	35084545	Proteomic profiling of cisplatin-resistant and cisplatin-sensitive germ cell tumour cell lines using quantitative mass spectrometry. 	Proteomic profiling of cisplatin-resistant and cisplatin-sensitive germ cell tumor cell lines using quantitative mass spectrometry	SILAC, cisplatin resistance, germ cell tumor, proteomic analysis	PURPOSE: Advanced testicular germ cell tumours (GCT) generally have a good prognosis owing to their unique sensitivity towards cisplatin-based chemotherapies. However, cisplatin-resistant GCT have a poor outcome. Further studies are mandatory to better understand resistance mechanisms and develop therapeutic strategies for refractory GCTs. METHODS: Protein levels in cisplatin-resistant GCT cell lines of NTERA-2, NCCIT and 2102EP were analyzed by quantitative proteomic mass spectrometry (MS) in combination with stable isotope labelling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC). Differentially abundant protein markers of acquired cisplatin resistance were validated by Western blotting. Comprehensive bioinformatical annotation using gene set enrichment analyses (GSEA) and STRING interaction analysis were performed to identify commonly affected pathways in cisplatin resistance and the data were compared to the GCT cohort of the 'The Cancer Genome Atlas'. RESULTS: A total of 4375 proteins were quantified by MS, 144 of which were found to be differentially abundant between isogenic resistant and sensitive cell line pairs (24 proteins for NTERA-2, 60 proteins for NCCIT, 75 proteins for 2102EP). Western blotting confirmed regulation of key resistance-associated proteins (CBS, ANXA1, LDHA, CTH, FDXR). GSEA revealed a statistically significant enrichment of DNA repair-associated proteins in all three resistant cell lines and specific additional processes for individual cell lines. CONCLUSION: High resolution MS combined with SILAC is a powerful tool and 144 significantly deregulated proteins were found in cisplatin-resistant GCT cell lines. Our study provides the largest proteomic in vitro library for cisplatin resistance in GCT, yet, enabling further studies to develop new treatment options for patients with refractory GCT.
PXD026125	35084980	The Blood Proteoform Atlas: A reference map of proteoforms in human hematopoietic cells. 	Data for the Blood Proteoform Atlas:DS-03:PBMC:Purchased from SCT	BPA, blood cell types, plasma, top-down proteomics	Human biology is tightly linked to proteins, yet most measurements do not precisely determine alternatively spliced sequences or posttranslational modifications. Here, we present the primary structures of ~30,000 unique proteoforms, nearly 10 times more than in previous studies, expressed from 1690 human genes across 21 cell types and plasma from human blood and bone marrow. The results, compiled in the Blood Proteoform Atlas (BPA), indicate that proteoforms better describe protein-level biology and are more specific indicators of differentiation than their corresponding proteins, which are more broadly expressed across cell types. We demonstrate the potential for clinical application, by interrogating the BPA in the context of liver transplantation and identifying cell and proteoform signatures that distinguish normal graft function from acute rejection and other causes of graft dysfunction.
PXD030935	35085550	T-cell activation decreases miRNA-15a/16 levels to promote MEK1-ERK1/2-Elk1 signaling and proliferative capacity. 	T cell activation decreases microRNA-15a/16 levels as a mechanism to promote MEK1-ERK1/2-Elk1 signaling for optimal proliferative capacity	cell cycle, cell growth, cell signaling, microRNA (miRNA), mitogenâ€activated protein kinase (MAPK)	While miRs have been extensively studied in the context of malignancy and tumor progression, their functions in regulating T-cell activation are less clear. In initial studies, we found reduced levels of miR-15a/16 at 3 to 18 h post-T-cell receptor (TCR) stimulation, suggesting a role for decreased levels of this miR pair in shaping T-cell activation. To further explore this, we developed an inducible miR15a/16 transgenic mouse model to determine how elevating miR-15a/16 levels during early stages of activation would affect T-cell proliferation and to identify TCR signaling pathways regulated by this miR pair. Doxycycline (DOX)-induced expression of miR-15a/16 from 0 to 18 h post-TCR stimulation decreased ex vivo T-cell proliferation as well as in vivo antigen-specific T-cell proliferation. We also combined bioinformatics and proteomics approaches to identify the mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MEK1) (Map2k1) as a target of miR-15a/16. MEK1 targeting by miR-15a/16 was confirmed using miR mimics that decreased Map2k1 mRNA containing the 3'-UTR target nucleotide sequence (UGCUGCUA) but did not decrease Map2k1 containing a mutated control sequence (AAAAAAAA). Phosphorylation of downstream signaling molecules, extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and Elk1, was also decreased by DOX-induced miR-15a/16 expression. In addition to MEK1, ERK1 was subsequently found to be targeted by miR-15a/16, with DOX-induced miR-15a/16 reducing total ERK1 levels in T cells. These findings show that TCR stimulation reduces miR-15a/16 levels at early stages of T-cell activation to facilitate increased MEK1 and ERK1, which promotes the sustained MEK1-ERK1/2-Elk1 signaling required for optimal proliferation.
PXD027474	35085786	Simple But Efficacious Enrichment of Integral Membrane Proteins and Their Interactions for In-Depth Membrane Proteomics. 	Membrane proteome of renal BBMVs from the mouse model	BBMV, membrane proteome	Membrane proteins play essential roles in various cellular processes, such as nutrient transport, bioenergetic processes, cell adhesion, and signal transduction. Proteomics is one of the key approaches to exploring membrane proteins comprehensively. Bottom-up proteomics using LC-MS/MS has been widely used in membrane proteomics. However, the low abundance and hydrophobic features of membrane proteins, especially integral membrane proteins, make it difficult to handle the proteins and are the bottleneck for identification by LC-MS/MS. Herein, to improve the identification and quantification of membrane proteins, we have stepwisely evaluated methods of membrane enrichment for the sample preparation. The enrichment methods of membranes consisted of precipitation by ultracentrifugation and treatment by urea or alkaline solutions. The best enrichment method in the study, washing with urea after isolation of the membranes, resulted in the identification of almost twice as many membrane proteins compared with samples without the enrichment. Notably, the method significantly enhances the identified numbers of multispanning transmembrane proteins, such as solute carrier transporters, ABC transporters, and G-protein-coupled receptors, by almost sixfold. Using this method, we revealed the profiles of amino acid transport systems with the validation by functional assays and found more protein-protein interactions, including membrane protein complexes and clusters. Our protocol uses standard procedures in biochemistry, but the method was efficient for the in-depth analysis of membrane proteome in a wide range of samples.
PXD024392	35085787	Tuning DO:DM Ratios Modulates MHC Class II Immunopeptidomes. 	Tuning DO:DM ratios modulates HLA class II immunopeptidomes	DM, DO, HLA-II, MHC, Orbitrap, antigen presentation	Major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) antigen presentation underlies a wide range of immune responses in health and disease. However, how MHC-II antigen presentation is regulated by the peptide-loading catalyst HLA-DM (DM), its associated modulator, HLA-DO (DO), is incompletely understood. This is due largely to technical limitations: model antigen-presenting cell (APC) systems that express these MHC-II peptidome regulators at physiologically variable levels have not been described. Likewise, computational prediction tools that account for DO and DM activities are not presently available. To address these gaps, we created a panel of single MHC-II allele, HLA-DR4-expressing APC lines that cover a wide range of DO:DM ratio states. Using a combined immunopeptidomic and proteomic discovery strategy, we measured the effects DO:DM ratios have on peptide presentation by surveying over 10,000 unique DR4-presented peptides. The resulting data provide insight into peptide characteristics that influence their presentation with increasing DO:DM ratios. These include DM sensitivity, peptide abundance, binding affinity and motif, peptide length, and choice of binding register along the source protein. These findings have implications for designing improved HLA-II prediction algorithms and research strategies for dissecting the variety of functions that different APCs serve in the body.
PXD027970	35086334	multiFLEX-LF: A Computational Approach to Quantify the Modification Stoichiometries in Label-Free Proteomics Data Sets. 	multiFLEX-LF: A Computational Approach to Quantify the Modification Stoichiometries in Label-free Proteomics Datasets	DIA, PTM stochiometry, cell cycle, post-translational modifications, quantification	In liquid-chromatography-tandem-mass-spectrometry-based proteomics, information about the presence and stoichiometry of protein modifications is not readily available. To overcome this problem, we developed multiFLEX-LF, a computational tool that builds upon FLEXIQuant, which detects modified peptide precursors and quantifies their modification extent by monitoring the differences between observed and expected intensities of the unmodified precursors. multiFLEX-LF relies on robust linear regression to calculate the modification extent of a given precursor relative to a within-study reference. multiFLEX-LF can analyze entire label-free discovery proteomics data sets in a precursor-centric manner without preselecting a protein of interest. To analyze modification dynamics and coregulated modifications, we hierarchically clustered the precursors of all proteins based on their computed relative modification scores. We applied multiFLEX-LF to a data-independent-acquisition-based data set acquired using the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C) isolated at various time points during mitosis. The clustering of the precursors allows for identifying varying modification dynamics and ordering the modification events. Overall, multiFLEX-LF enables the fast identification of potentially differentially modified peptide precursors and the quantification of their differential modification extent in large data sets using a personal computer. Additionally, multiFLEX-LF can drive the large-scale investigation of the modification dynamics of peptide precursors in time-series and case-control studies. multiFLEX-LF is available at https://gitlab.com/SteenOmicsLab/multiflex-lf.
PXD027408	35087068	Viral immune evasins impact antigen presentation by allele-specific trapping of MHC I at the peptide-loading complex. 	Viral immune evasions differentially impact cell surface presentation of MHC I allomorphs already at the peptide-loading complex	ER quality control, MHC I biogenesis, major histocompatibility complex class I, peptide-loading complex, viral immune evasion	Major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC I) molecules present antigenic peptides to cytotoxic T cells to eliminate infected or cancerous cells. The transporter associated with antigen processing (TAP) shuttles proteasomally generated peptides into the ER for MHC I loading. As central part of the peptide-loading complex (PLC), TAP is targeted by viral factors, which inhibit peptide supply and thereby impact MHC I-mediated immune responses. However, it is still poorly understood how antigen presentation via different MHC I allotypes is affected by TAP inhibition. Here, we show that conditional expression of herpes simplex viral ICP47 suppresses surface presentation of HLA-A and HLA-C, but not of HLA-B, while the human cytomegaloviral US6 reduces surface levels of all MHC I allotypes. This marked difference in HLA-B antigen presentation is echoed by an enrichment of HLA-B allomorphs at US6-arrested PLC in comparison to ICP47-PLC. Although both viral factors prevent TAP-mediated peptide supply, our data imply that MHC I allomorphs favor different conformationally arrested states of the PLC, leading to differential downregulation of MHC I surface presentation. These findings will help understand MHC I biology in general and will even advance the targeted treatment of infections depending on patients' allotypes.
PXD029057	35087108	Orthogonal proteomics methods to unravel the HOTAIR interactome. 	ChIRP-MS of long non-coding RNA HOTAIR	ChIRP-MS, HOTAIR, lncRNA	Accumulating evidence highlights the role of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in cellular homeostasis, and their dysregulation in disease settings. Most lncRNAs function by interacting with proteins or protein complexes. While several orthogonal methods have been developed to identify these proteins, each method has its inherent strengths and limitations. Here, we combine two RNA-centric methods ChIRP-MS and RNA-BioID to obtain a comprehensive list of proteins that interact with the well-known lncRNA HOTAIR. Overexpression of HOTAIR has been associated with a metastasis-promoting phenotype in various cancers. Although HOTAIR is known to bind with PRC2 and LSD1 protein complexes, only very limited unbiased comprehensive approaches to map its interactome have been performed. Both ChIRP-MS and RNA-BioID data sets show an association of HOTAIR with mitoribosomes, suggesting that HOTAIR has functions independent of its (post-)transcriptional mode-of-action.
PXD029222	35087499	Antibacterial Activity and Multi-Targeting Mechanism of Dehydrocorydaline From Corydalis turtschaninovii Bess. Against Listeria monocytogenes. 	Listeria monocytogenes responded to dehydrocorydaline	antibacterial mechanism of action of dehydrocorydaline	Listeria monocytogenes is a foodborne pathogen, with relatively low incidence but high case-fatality. Phytochemicals have been recognized as a promising antimicrobial agent as an alternative to synthetic chemicals due to their safety and high efficacy with multi-target sites. This study identified and characterized a novel antibacterial agent, dehydrocorydaline, in the Corydalis turschaninovii rhizome using HPLC-LTQ-Orbitrap-HRMS, and its antibacterial effect with lowest MIC (1 mg/mL) and MBC (2 mg/mL) values. In addition, an in vitro growth kinetic assay, cytoplasmic nucleic acid and protein leakage assay, and observation of morphological changes in bacterial cells supported the strong antibacterial activity. Dehydrocorydaline also displayed effective inhibitory effects on biofilm formation and bacterial motility. In order to investigate the potential antibacterial mechanism of action of dehydrocorydaline against L. monocytogenes, label-free quantitative proteomics was used, demonstrating that dehydrocorydaline has multiple targets for combating L. monocytogenes including dysregulation of carbohydrate metabolism, suppression of cell wall synthesis, and inhibition of bacterial motility. Overall, this study demonstrated that dehydrocorydaline has potential as a natural and effective antibacterial agent with multi-target sites in pathogenic bacteria, and provides the basis for development of a new class of antibacterial agent.
PXD026487	35087541	The Phloem Intercalated With Xylem-Correlated 3 Receptor-Like Kinase Constitutively Interacts With Brassinosteroid Insensitive 1-Associated Receptor Kinase 1 and Is Involved in Vascular Development in Arabidopsis. 	The PXC3 receptor-like kinase constitutively interacts with BAK1 and is involved in vascular development in Arabidopsis.	BAK1, LRR-RLK, interactors, receptors	Leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinases (LRR-RLKs) play fundamental roles in cell-to-cell and plant-environment communication. LRR-RLKs can function as receptors perceiving endogenous or external ligands, or as coreceptors, which stabilize the complex, and enhance transduction of the intracellular signal. The LRR-RLK BAK1 is a coreceptor for different developmental and immunity pathways. In this article, we identified PXY-CORRELATED 3 (PXC3) as a BAK1-interacting LRR-RLK, which was previously reported to be transcribed in vascular tissues co-expressed with PHLOEM INTERCALATED WITH XYLEM (PXY), the receptor of the TDIF/CLE41 peptide. Characterization of pxc3 loss-of-function mutants revealed reduced hypocotyl stele width and vascular cells compared to wild type, indicating that PXC3 plays a role in the vascular development in Arabidopsis. Furthermore, our data suggest that PXC3 might function as a positive regulator of the CLE41/TDIF-TDR/PXY signaling pathway.
PXD028873	35087555	Phosphoproteomics Reveals Regulation of Secondary Metabolites in Mahonia bealei Exposed to Ultraviolet-B Radiation. 	Phosphoproteomics reveals regulation of secondary metabolites in Mahonia bealei under ultraviolet-B radiation	Abiotic stress, Mahonia Bealei, Phosphoproteomics, Ultraviolet-B Radiation, secondary metabolism	Mahonia bealei (M. bealei) is a traditional Chinese medicine containing a high alkaloid content used to treat various diseases. Generally, only dried root and stem are used as medicines, considering that the alkaloid content in M. bealei leaves is lower than in the stems and roots. Some previous research found that alkaloid and flavonoid contents in the M. bealei leaves may increase when exposed to ultraviolet B (UV-B) radiation. However, the underlying mechanism of action is still unclear. In this study, we used titanium dioxide material enrichment and mass-based label-free quantitative proteomics techniques to explore the effect and mechanism of M. bealei leaves when exposed to UV-B treatment. Our data suggest that UV-B radiation increases the ATP content, photosynthetic pigment content, and some enzymatic/nonenzymatic indicators in the leaves of M. bealei. Moreover, phosphoproteomics suggests phosphoproteins related to mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signal transduction and the plant hormone brassinosteroid signaling pathway as well as phosphoproteins related to photosynthesis, glycolysis, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, and the amino acid synthesis/metabolism pathway are all affected by UV-B radiation. These results suggest that the UV-B radiation activates the oxidative stress response, MAPK signal transduction pathway, and photosynthetic energy metabolism pathway, which may lead to the accumulation of secondary metabolites in M. bealei leaves.
PXD029385	35087857	Mechanisms for Improving Hepatic Glucolipid Metabolism by Cinnamic Acid and Cinnamic Aldehyde: An Insight Provided by Multi-Omics. 	Effects of cinnamic acid and cinnamic aldehyde on db/db mice	cinnamic acid, cinnamic aldehyde, db/db, liver	Cinnamic acid (AC) and cinnamic aldehyde (AL) are two chemicals enriched in cinnamon and have been previously proved to improve glucolipid metabolism, thus ameliorating metabolic disorders. In this study, we employed transcriptomes and proteomes on AC and AL treated db/db mice in order to explore the underlying mechanisms for their effects. Db/db mice were divided into three groups: the control group, AC group and AL group. Gender- and age-matched wt/wt mice were used as a normal group. After 4 weeks of treatments, mice were sacrificed, and liver tissues were used for further analyses. Functional enrichment of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were performed using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases. DEPs were further verified by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). The results suggested that AC and AL share similar mechanisms, and they may improve glucolipid metabolism by improving mitochondrial functions, decreasing serotonin contents and upregulating autophagy mediated lipid clearance. This study provides an insight into the molecular mechanisms of AC and AL on hepatic transcriptomes and proteomes in disrupted metabolic situations and lays a foundation for future experiments.
PXD011790	35089808	Faster skin wound healing predicts survival after myocardial infarction. 	Woundhealing proteomic profile	MI, heart, woundhealing	Both skin wound healing and the cardiac response to myocardial infarction (MI) progress through similar pathways involving inflammation, resolution, tissue repair, and scar formation. Due to the similarities, we hypothesized that the healing response to skin wounding would predict future response to MI. Mice were given a 3-mm skin wound using a disposable biopsy punch and the skin wound was imaged daily until closure. The same set of animals was given MI by permanent coronary artery ligation 28 days later and followed for 7 days. Cardiac physiology was measured by echocardiography at baseline and MI days 3 and 7. Animals that survived until day 7 were grouped as survivors, and animals that died from MI were grouped as nonsurvivors. Survivors had faster skin wound healing than nonsurvivors. Faster skin wound healing predicted MI survival better than commonly used cardiac functional variables (e.g., infarct size, fractional shortening, and end diastolic dimension). N-glycoproteome profiling of MI day 3 plasma revealed alpha2-macroglobulin and ELL-associated factor 1 as strong predictors of future MI death and progression to heart failure. A second cohort of MI mice validated these findings. To investigate the clinical relevance of alpha2-macroglobulin, we mapped the plasma glycoproteome in patients with MI 48 h after admission and in healthy controls. In patients, alpha2-macroglobulin was increased 48 h after MI. Apolipoprotein D, another plasma glycoprotein, detrimentally regulated both skin and cardiac wound healing in male but not female mice by promoting inflammation. Our results reveal that the skin is a mirror to the heart and common pathways link wound healing across organs.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Faster skin wound healers had more efficient cardiac healing after myocardial infarction (MI). Two plasma proteins at D3 MI, EAF1 and A2M, predicted MI death in 66% of cases. ApoD regulated both skin and cardiac wound healing in male mice by promoting inflammation. The skin was a mirror to the heart and common pathways linked wound healing across organs.
PXD028072	35091090	Proteomics Uncovers Novel Components of an Interactive Protein Network Supporting RNA Export in Trypanosomes. 	Identification and function of components from a divergent mRNA export pathway in trypanosomes	EJC, TREX complex, evolution, gene expression, mRNA export, mRNA processing, trypanosomes	In trypanosomatids, transcription is polycistronic and all mRNAs are processed by trans-splicing, with export mediated by noncanonical mechanisms. Although mRNA export is central to gene regulation and expression, few orthologs of proteins involved in mRNA export in higher eukaryotes are detectable in trypanosome genomes, necessitating direct identification of protein components. We previously described conserved mRNA export pathway components in Trypanosoma cruzi, including orthologs of Sub2, a component of the TREX complex, and eIF4AIII (previously Hel45), a core component of the exon junction complex (EJC). Here, we searched for protein interactors of both proteins using cryomilling and mass spectrometry. Significant overlap between TcSub2 and TceIF4AIII-interacting protein cohorts suggests that both proteins associate with similar machinery. We identified several interactions with conserved core components of the EJC and multiple additional complexes, together with proteins specific to trypanosomatids. Additional immunoisolations of kinetoplastid-specific proteins both validated and extended the superinteractome, which is capable of supporting RNA processing from splicing through to nuclear export and cytoplasmic events. We also suggest that only proteomics is powerful enough to uncover the high connectivity between multiple aspects of mRNA metabolism and to uncover kinetoplastid-specific components that create a unique amalgam to support trypanosome mRNA maturation.
PXD029707	35091571	Oligonucleotide correction of an intronic TIMMDC1 variant in cells of patients with severe neurodegenerative disorder. 	Splice-Switching Oligonucleotide-mediated Correction of a Deep Intronic Splice-variant in TIMMDC1 in Cells of Patients with Severe Early Onset Neurodegenerative Disorder.	DIA, SSO, TIMMDC1, mitochondrial disease	TIMMDC1 encodes the Translocase of Inner Mitochondrial Membrane Domain-Containing protein 1 (TIMMDC1) subunit of complex I of the electron transport chain responsible for ATP production. We studied a consanguineous family with two affected children, now deceased, who presented with failure to thrive in the early postnatal period, poor feeding, hypotonia, peripheral neuropathy and drug-resistant epilepsy. Genome sequencing data revealed a known, deep intronic pathogenic variant TIMMDC1 c.597-1340A>G, also present in gnomAD (~1/5000 frequency), that enhances aberrant splicing. Using RNA and protein analysis we show almost complete loss of TIMMDC1 protein and compromised mitochondrial complex I function. We have designed and applied two different splice-switching antisense oligonucleotides (SSO) to restore normal TIMMDC1 mRNA processing and protein levels in patients' cells. Quantitative proteomics and real-time metabolic analysis of mitochondrial function on patient fibroblasts treated with SSOs showed restoration of complex I subunit abundance and function. SSO-mediated therapy of this inevitably fatal TIMMDC1 neurologic disorder is an attractive possibility.
PXD030383	35091576	Depletion of mitochondrial methionine adenosyltransferase alpha1 triggers mitochondrial dysfunction in alcohol-associated liver disease. 	Depletion of Mitochondrial Methionine Adenosyltransferase alpha1 Triggers Mitochondrial Dysfunction in Alcohol-Associated Liver Disease	MATalpha1, alcohol, liver, mitochondria	MATalpha1 catalyzes the synthesis of S-adenosylmethionine, the principal biological methyl donor. Lower MATalpha1 activity and mitochondrial dysfunction occur in alcohol-associated liver disease. Besides cytosol and nucleus, MATalpha1 also targets the mitochondria of hepatocytes to regulate their function. Here, we show that mitochondrial MATalpha1 is selectively depleted in alcohol-associated liver disease through a mechanism that involves the isomerase PIN1 and the kinase CK2. Alcohol activates CK2, which phosphorylates MATalpha1 at Ser114 facilitating interaction with PIN1, thereby inhibiting its mitochondrial localization. Blocking PIN1-MATalpha1 interaction increased mitochondrial MATalpha1 levels and protected against alcohol-induced mitochondrial dysfunction and fat accumulation. Normally, MATalpha1 interacts with mitochondrial proteins involved in TCA cycle, oxidative phosphorylation, and fatty acid beta-oxidation. Preserving mitochondrial MATalpha1 content correlates with higher methylation and expression of mitochondrial proteins. Our study demonstrates a role of CK2 and PIN1 in reducing mitochondrial MATalpha1 content leading to mitochondrial dysfunction in alcohol-associated liver disease.
PXD029295	35092134	N-glycosylation regulates MET processing and signaling. 	hepatocyte grwoth factor receptor (MET) LC-MSMS	glycosylation, hepatocyte grwoth factor receptor (MET)	MET, the receptor for the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), is strongly associated with resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors, key drugs that are used in the therapy of non-small cell lung cancer. MET contains 11 potential N-glycosylation sites, but the site-specific roles of these N-glycans have not been elucidated. We report herein that these N-glycans regulate the proteolytic processing of MET and HGF-induced MET signaling, and that this regulation is site specific. Inhibitors of N-glycosylation were found to suppress the processing and trafficking of endogenous MET in H1975 and EBC-1 lung cancer cells and exogenous MET in CHO-K1 cells. We purified the recombinant extracellular domain of human MET and determined the site-specific N-glycan structures and occupancy using mass spectrometry. The results indicated that most sites were fully glycosylated and that the dominant population was the complex type. To examine the effects of the deletion of N-glycans of MET, we prepared endogenous MET knockout Flp-In CHO cells and transfected them with a series of N-glycan-deletion mutants of MET. The results showed that several N-glycans are implicated in the processing of MET. The findings also suggested that the N-glycans of the SEMA domain of MET positively regulate HGF signaling, and the N-glycans of the region other than the SEMA domain negatively regulate HGF signaling. Processing, cell surface expression, and signaling were significantly suppressed in the case of the all-N-glycan-deletion mutant. The overall findings suggest that N-glycans of MET affect the status and the function of the receptor in a site-specific manner.
PXD049270	35093210	Motif-dependent immune co-receptor interactome profiling by photoaffinity chemical proteomics. 	[HPP-2.0] Motif-dependent immune co-receptor interactome profiling by photoaffinity chemical proteomics	CD28, Chemical proteomics, Immune signaling, PKCÎ¸, Phosphotyrosine signaling, Protein complex	Identification of the tyrosine phosphorylation (pY)-dependent interactome of immune co-receptors is crucial for understanding signal pathways involved in immunotherapy. However, identifying the motif-specific interactome for each pY commonly found on these multi-phosphorylated membrane proteins remains challenging. Here, we describe a photoaffinity-based chemical proteomic approach to dissect the motif-specific cytoplasmic interactomes of the critical immune co-receptor CD28. Various full-length CD28 cytoplasmic tails (CD28(cyto)) with defined pY and selectively replaced photo-methionine were synthesized and applied to explore three pY-motif-dependent CD28(cyto) interactomes. We identified a stand-alone interaction of phospholipase PLCG1 with the Y191 motif with enhanced affinity for the sequence neighboring the transmembrane domain. Importantly, taking advantage of native top-down mass spectrometry with a 193-nm laser, we discovered the direct association of a previously undefined pY218 motif with the kinase PKCtheta through its C2 domain. This synthetic CD28(cyto)-based photoaffinity proteomic approach is generically applicable to the study of other immune co-receptors with multiple pY sites on their linear cytoplasmic tail.
PXD027939	35093569	Phosphopeptide enrichment using Phos-tag technology reveals functional phosphorylation of the nucleocapsid protein of SARS-CoV-2. 	Phosphoproteomics of nucleocapsid protein of SARS-CoV-2	Phos-tag, SARS-CoV-2, nucleocapsid protein, phosphoproteomics	Phosphorylation of viral proteins serves as a regulatory mechanism during the intracellular life cycle of infected viruses. There is therefore a pressing need to develop a method to efficiently purify and enrich phosphopeptides derived from viral particles in biological samples. In this study, we utilized Phos-tag technology to analyze the functional phosphorylation of the nucleocapsid protein (N protein; NP) of severe respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). Viral particles were collected from culture supernatants of SARS-CoV-2-infected VeroE6/TMPRSS2 cells by ultracentrifugation, and phosphopeptides were purified by Phos-tag magnetic beads for LC-MS/MS analysis. Analysis revealed that NP was reproducibly phosphorylated at serine 79 (Ser79). Multiple sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis showed that the Ser79 was a distinct phospho-acceptor site in SARS-CoV-2 but not in other beta-coronaviruses. We also found that the prolyl-isomerase Pin1 bound to the phosphorylated Ser79 in NP and positively regulated the production of viral particles. These results suggest that SARS-CoV-2 may have acquired the potent virus-host interaction during its evolution mediated by viral protein phosphorylation. Moreover, Phos-tag technology can provide a useful means for analyzing the functional phosphorylation of viral proteins. SIGNIFICANCE: In this study, we aimed to investigate the functional phosphorylation of SARS-CoV-2 NP. For this purpose, we used Phos-tag technology to purify and enrich virus-derived phosphopeptides with high selectivity and reproducibility. This method can be particularly useful in analyzing viral phosphopeptides from cell culture supernatants that often contain high concentrations of fetal bovine serum and supplements. We newly identified an NP phosphorylation site at Ser79, which is important for Pin1 binding. Furthermore, we showed that the interaction between Pin1 and phosphorylated NP could enhance viral replication in a cell culture model.
PXD029712	35095517	Amoxicillin Haptenation of alpha-Enolase is Modulated by Active Site Occupancy and Acetylation. 	AMOXICILLIN HAPTENATION OF alpha-ENOLASE	acetylation, allergic responses to drugs, posttranslational modifications, protein modification by drugs, beta-lactam antibiotics	Allergic reactions to antibiotics are a major concern in the clinic. beta-lactam antibiotics are the class most frequently reported to cause hypersensitivity reactions. One of the mechanisms involved in this outcome is the modification of proteins by covalent binding of the drug (haptenation). Hence, interest in identifying the corresponding serum and cellular protein targets arises. Importantly, haptenation susceptibility and extent can be modulated by the context, including factors affecting protein conformation or the occurrence of other posttranslational modifications. We previously identified the glycolytic enzyme alpha-enolase as a target for haptenation by amoxicillin, both in cells and in the extracellular milieu. Here, we performed an in vitro study to analyze amoxicillin haptenation of alpha-enolase using gel-based and activity assays. Moreover, the possible interplay or interference between amoxicillin haptenation and acetylation of alpha-enolase was studied in 1D- and 2D-gels that showed decreased haptenation and displacement of the haptenation signal to lower pI spots after chemical acetylation of the protein, respectively. In addition, the peptide containing lysine 239 was identified by mass spectrometry as the amoxicillin target sequence on alpha-enolase, thus suggesting a selective haptenation under our conditions. The putative amoxicillin binding site and the surrounding interactions were investigated using the alpha-enolase crystal structure and molecular docking. Altogether, the results obtained provide the basis for the design of novel diagnostic tools or approaches in the study of amoxicillin-induced allergic reactions.
PXD026056	35095781	Activity-Based Protein Profiling for the Identification of Novel Carbohydrate-Active Enzymes Involved in Xylan Degradation in the Hyperthermophilic Euryarchaeon Thermococcus sp. Strain 2319x1E. 	Investigation of xylan degradation in Thermococcus sp. 2319x1E	ABPP, FP, Thermococcus sp 2319x1E, fluorophosphonate	Activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) has so far scarcely been applied in Archaea in general and, especially, in extremophilic organisms. We herein isolated a novel Thermococcus strain designated sp. strain 2319x1E derived from the same enrichment culture as the recently reported Thermococcus sp. strain 2319x1. Both strains are able to grow with xylan as the sole carbon and energy source, and for Thermococcus sp. strain 2319x1E (optimal growth at 85degreesC, pH 6-7), the induction of xylanolytic activity in the presence of xylan was demonstrated. Since the solely sequence-based identification of xylanolytic enzymes is hardly possible, we established a complementary approach by conducting comparative full proteome analysis in combination with ABPP using alpha- or beta-glycosidase selective probes and subsequent mass spectrometry (MS)-based analysis. This complementary proteomics approach in combination with recombinant protein expression and classical enzyme characterization enabled the identification of a novel bifunctional maltose-forming alpha-amylase and deacetylase (EGDIFPOO_00674) belonging to the GH57 family and a promiscuous beta-glycosidase (EGIDFPOO_00532) with beta-xylosidase activity. We thereby further substantiated the general applicability of ABPP in archaea and expanded the ABPP repertoire for the identification of glycoside hydrolases in hyperthermophiles.
PXD028619	35095797	MacAB-TolC Contributes to the Development of Acinetobacter baumannii Biofilm at the Solid-Liquid Interface. 	MacAB-TolC, a determinant of solid-liquid biofilms in Acinetobacter baumannii	biofilm, eDNA, efflux pump, envelop stress response, solid-liquid interface	Acinetobacter baumannii has emerged as one of the most problematic bacterial pathogens responsible for hospital-acquired and community infections worldwide. Besides its high capacity to acquire antibiotic resistance mechanisms, it also presents high adhesion abilities on inert and living surfaces leading to biofilm development. This lifestyle confers additional protection against various treatments and allows it to persist for long periods in various hospital niches. Due to their remarkable antimicrobial tolerance, A. baumannii biofilms are difficult to control and ultimately eradicate. Further insights into the mechanism of biofilm development will help to overcome this challenge and to develop novel antibiofilm strategies. To unravel critical determinants of this sessile lifestyle, the proteomic profiles of two A. baumannii strains (ATTC17978 and SDF) grown in planktonic stationary phase or in mature solid-liquid (S-L) biofilm were compared using a semiquantitative proteomic study. Of interest, among the 69 common proteins determinants accumulated in the two strains at the S-L interface, we sorted out the MacAB-TolC system. This tripartite efflux pump played a role in A. baumannii biofilm formation as demonstrated by using DeltamacAB-tolC deletion mutant. Complementary approaches allowed us to get an overview of the impact of macAB-tolC deletion in A. baumannii physiology. Indeed, this efflux pump appeared to be involved in the envelope stress response occurring in mature biofilm. It contributes to maintain wild type (WT) membrane rigidity and provides tolerance to high osmolarity conditions. In addition, this system is probably involved in the maintenance of iron and sulfur homeostasis. MacAB-TolC might help this pathogen face and adapt to deleterious conditions occurring in mature biofilms. Increasing our knowledge of A. baumannii biofilm formation will undoubtedly help us develop new therapeutic strategies to tackle this emerging threat to human health.
PXD029129	35095871	Neutrophils Lose the Capacity to Suppress T Cell Proliferation Upon Migration Towards Inflamed Joints in Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis. 	Proteome of neutrophils upon migration towards inflamed synovial fluid	Neutrophil, juvenile idiopathic arthritis, migration, synovial fluid	Neutrophils are highly abundant in synovial fluid of rheumatic inflamed joints. In oligoarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), synovial fluid neutrophils have impaired effector functions and altered phenotype. We hypothesized that these alterations might impact the immunoregulatory interplay between neutrophils and T cells. In this study we analyzed the suppressive effect of neutrophils, isolated from blood and synovial fluid of oligoarticular JIA patients, on CD4(+) T cells activated by CD3/CD28 stimulation. JIA blood neutrophils suppressed T cell proliferation but synovial fluid neutrophils from several patients did not. The loss of T cell suppression was replicated in an in vitro transmigration assay, where healthy control neutrophils migrated into synovial fluid through transwell inserts with endothelial cells and synoviocytes. Non-migrated neutrophils suppressed proliferation of activated CD4(+) T cells, but migrated neutrophils had no suppressive effect. Neutrophil suppression of T cells was partly dependent on reactive oxygen species (ROS), demonstrated by impaired suppression in presence of catalase. Migrated neutrophils had reduced ROS production compared to non-migrated neutrophils. A proteomic analysis of transwell-migrated neutrophils identified alterations in proteins related to neutrophil ROS production and degranulation, and biological processes involving protein transport, cell-cell contact and inflammation. In conclusion, neutrophils in synovial fluid of children with JIA have impaired capacity to suppress activated T cells, which may be due to reduced oxidative burst and alterations in proteins related to cell-cell contact and inflammation. The lack of T cell suppression by neutrophils in synovial fluid may contribute to local inflammation and autoimmune reactions in the JIA joint.
PXD029561	35095875	Monolaurin Confers a Protective Effect Against Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus Infection in Piglets by Regulating the Interferon Pathway. 	Monolaurin confers a protective effect against porcine epidemic diarrhea virus infection in piglets by regulating the interferon pathway	Monolaurin, infection., interferon, piglets, porcine epidemic diarrhea virus	Porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV) has reemerged as the main pathogen of piglets due to its high mutation feature. Monolaurin (ML) is a natural compound with a wide range of antibacterial and antiviral activities. However, the role of ML in PEDV infection is still unknown. This study aimed to evaluate the effect of ML on the growth performance, intestinal function, virus replication and cytokine response in piglets infected with PEDV, and to reveal the mechanism through proteomics analysis. Piglets were orally administrated with ML at a dose of 100 mg/kg.BW for 7 days before PEDV infection. Results showed that although there was no significant effect on the growth performance of piglets, ML administration alleviated the diarrhea caused by PEDV infection. ML administration promoted the recovery of intestinal villi, thereby improving intestinal function. Meanwhile, PEDV replication was significantly inhibited, and PEDV-induced expression of IL-6 and IL-8 were decreased with ML administration. Proteomics analyses showed that 38 proteins were differentially expressed between PEDV and ML+PEDV groups and were significantly enriched in the interferon-related pathways. This suggests ML could promote the restoration of homeostasis by regulating the interferon pathway. Overall, the present study demonstrated ML could confer a protective effect against PEDV infection in piglets and may be developed as a drug or feed additive to prevent and control PEDV disease.
PXD029027	35095928	Comparative Metabolomics and Proteomics Reveal Vibrio parahaemolyticus Targets Hypoxia-Related Signaling Pathways of Takifugu obscurus. 	The proteomic raw data of livers of Takifugu obscurus under hypoxia or (and) infection of Vibrio parahaemolyticus	Takifugu obscurus, Vibrio parahaemolyticus, hypoxia	Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) raises the issue of how hypoxia destroys normal physiological function and host immunity against pathogens. However, there are few or no comprehensive omics studies on this effect. From an evolutionary perspective, animals living in complex and changeable marine environments might develop signaling pathways to address bacterial threats under hypoxia. In this study, the ancient genomic model animal Takifugu obscurus and widespread Vibrio parahaemolyticus were utilized to study the effect. T. obscurus was challenged by V. parahaemolyticus or (and) exposed to hypoxia. The effects of hypoxia and infection were identified, and a theoretical model of the host critical signaling pathway in response to hypoxia and infection was defined by methods of comparative metabolomics and proteomics on the entire liver. The changing trends of some differential metabolites and proteins under hypoxia, infection or double stressors were consistent. The model includes transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha), and epidermal growth factor (EGF) signaling pathways, and the consistent changing trends indicated that the host liver tended toward cell proliferation. Hypoxia and infection caused tissue damage and fibrosis in the portal area of the liver, which may be related to TGF-beta1 signal transduction. We propose that LRG (leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein) is widely involved in the transition of the TGF-beta1/Smad signaling pathway in response to hypoxia and pathogenic infection in vertebrates as a conserved molecule.
PXD030125	35096652	Campylobacter jejuni Virulence Factors Identified by Modulating Their Synthesis on Ribosomes With Altered rRNA Methylation. 	Campylobacter jejuni virulence factors identified by modulating their sCampylobacter jejuni virulence factors identified by modulating their synthesis on ribosomes with altered rRNA methylationynthesis on ribosomes with altered rRNA methylation	Campylobacter	Campylobacter jejuni is a major cause of food poisoning worldwide, and remains the main infective agent in gastroenteritis and related intestinal disorders in Europe and the USA. As with all bacterial infections, the stages of adhesion to host tissue, survival in the host and eliciting disease all require the synthesis of proteinaceous virulence factors on the ribosomes of the pathogen. Here, we describe how C. jejuni virulence is attenuated by altering the methylation of its ribosomes to disrupt the composition of its proteome, and how this in turn provides a means of identifying factors that are essential for infection and pathogenesis. Specifically, inactivation of the C. jejuni Cj0588/TlyA methyltransferase prevents methylation of nucleotide C1920 in the 23S rRNA of its ribosomes and reduces the pathogen's ability to form biofilms, to attach, invade and survive in host cells, and to provoke the innate immune response. Mass spectrometric analyses of C. jejuni TlyA-minus strains revealed an array of subtle changes in the proteome composition. These included reduced amounts of the cytolethal distending toxin (CdtC) and the MlaEFD proteins connected with outer membrane vesicle (OMV) production. Inactivation of the cdtC and mlaEFD genes confirmed the importance of their encoded proteins in establishing infection. Collectively, the data identify a subset of genes required for the onset of human campylobacteriosis, and serve as a proof of principle for use of this approach in detecting proteins involved in bacterial pathogenesis.
PXD029051	35096998	Potential Clinical Value of Biomarker-Guided Emergency Triage for Thoracic Aortic Dissection. 	label-free quantification proteomics of human aortic tissues by LC-MSMS	aotic	Aim: Thoracic aortic dissection (TAD) is a high-risk vascular disease. The mortality rate of untreated TADs in 24 h was as high as 50%. Thus, rapid diagnosis of TAD in the emergency department would get patients to the right treatments to save their lives. Methods: We profiled the proteome of aortic tissues from TAD patients using a label-free quantification proteomics method. The differentially expressed proteins were screened and subjected to bioinformatics analysis. Candidate biomarkers were selected and validated in independent serum samples using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs). The diagnostic values were further predicted via receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. Results: A total of 1,141 differentially expressed proteins were identified in aortic tissues from 17 TAD patients and eight myocardial infarction (MI) patients. Six proteins were selected as candidate biomarkers for ELISAs in an independent training set of 20 serum samples (TAD = 10, MI = 10). Of these proteins, four with a P-value < 0.01 were further validated in another independent set of 64 serum samples (TAD = 32, MI = 32) via ELISAs. ITGA2, COL2A1, and MIF had P-values < 0.0001, and their areas under the curve (AUCs) were 0.801 (95% CI: 0.691-0.911), 0.773 (95% CI: 0.660-0.887), and 0.701 (95% CI: 0.574-0.828), respectively. Conclusion: ITGA2, COL2A1, and MIF were identified as promising biomarkers for discriminating TAD from emergency patients with severe chest pain. Biomarker-guided emergency triage could further shorten the time for patients to get more effective treatments.
PXD028118	35098564	Protein signatures to distinguish aggressive from indolent prostate cancer. 	Protein Signatures to Distinguish Aggressive from Indolent Prostate Cancer	CALR, CTSD, POSTN, PSA, YY1, biomarker, prognosis, prostate cancer, recurrent	BACKGROUND: Distinguishing men with aggressive from indolent prostate cancer is critical to decisions in the management of clinically localized prostate cancer. Molecular signatures of aggressive disease could help men overcome this major clinical challenge by reducing unnecessary treatment and allowing more appropriate treatment of aggressive disease. METHODS: We performed a mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of normal and malignant prostate tissues from 22 men who underwent surgery for prostate cancer. Prostate cancer samples included Grade Groups (3-5), with 8 patients experiencing recurrence and 14 without evidence of recurrence with a mean of 6.8 years of follow-up. To better understand the biological pathways underlying prostate cancer aggressiveness, we performed a systems biology analysis and gene enrichment analysis. Proteins that distinguished recurrent from nonrecurrent cancer were chosen for validation by immunohistochemical analysis on tissue microarrays containing samples from a larger cohort of patients with recurrent and nonrecurrent prostate cancer. RESULTS: In all, 24,037 unique peptides (false discovery rate < 1%) corresponding to 3,313 distinct proteins were identified with absolute abundance ranges spanning seven orders of magnitude. Of these proteins, 115 showed significantly (p < 0.01) different levels in tissues from recurrent versus nonrecurrent cancers. Analysis of all differentially expressed proteins in recurrent and nonrecurrent cases identified several protein networks, most prominently one in which approximately 24% of the proteins in the network were regulated by the YY1 transcription factor (adjusted p < 0.001). Strong immunohistochemical staining levels of three differentially expressed proteins, POSTN, CALR, and CTSD, on a tissue microarray validated their association with shorter patient survival. CONCLUSIONS: The protein signatures identified could improve understanding of the molecular drivers of aggressive prostate cancer and be used as candidate prognostic biomarkers.
PXD021881	35098996	Novel stress granule-like structures are induced via a paracrine mechanism during viral infection. 	A novel paracrine induction of RNA Granules by Feline Calicivirus	FCV, G3BP1, Stress granules, paracrine	To rapidly adapt to stresses such as infections, cells have evolved several mechanisms, which include the activation of stress response pathways and the innate immune response. These stress responses result in the rapid inhibition of translation and condensation of stalled mRNAs with RNA-binding proteins and signalling components into cytoplasmic biocondensates called stress granules (SGs). Increasing evidence suggests that SGs contribute to antiviral defence, and thus viruses need to evade these responses to propagate. We previously showed that feline calicivirus (FCV) impairs SG assembly by cleaving the scaffolding protein G3BP1. We also observed that uninfected bystander cells assembled G3BP1-positive granules, suggesting a paracrine response triggered by infection. We now present evidence that virus-free supernatant generated from infected cells can induce the formation of SG-like foci, which we name paracrine granules. They are linked to antiviral activity and exhibit specific kinetics of assembly-disassembly, and protein and RNA composition that are different from canonical SGs. We propose that this paracrine induction reflects a novel cellular defence mechanism to limit viral propagation and promote stress responses in bystander cells.
PXD031469	35099016	Selective microautophagy of proteasomes is initiated by ESCRT-0 and is promoted by proteasome ubiquitylation. 	Selective microautophagy of proteasomes is initiated by ESCRT-0 and is promoted by proteasome ubiquitylation	AMPK, ESCRT-0, Microautophagy, Proteasome, Protein quality control, Rsp5, Ubiquitin	The proteasome is central to proteolysis by the ubiquitin-proteasome system under normal growth conditions but is itself degraded through macroautophagy under nutrient stress. A recently described AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-regulated endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT)-dependent microautophagy pathway also regulates proteasome trafficking and degradation in low-glucose conditions in yeast. Aberrant proteasomes are more prone to microautophagy, suggesting the ESCRT system fine-tunes proteasome quality control under low-glucose stress. Here, we uncover additional features of the selective microautophagy of proteasomes in budding yeast. Genetic or pharmacological induction of aberrant proteasomes is associated with increased mono- or oligo-ubiquitylation of proteasome components, which appears to be recognized by ESCRT-0. AMPK controls this pathway in part by regulating the trafficking of ESCRT-0 to the vacuole surface, which also leads to degradation of the Vps27 subunit of ESCRT-0. The Rsp5 ubiquitin ligase contributes to proteasome subunit ubiquitylation, and multiple ubiquitin-binding elements in Vps27 are involved in their recognition. We propose that ESCRT-0 at the vacuole surface recognizes ubiquitylated proteasomes and initiates their microautophagic elimination during glucose depletion. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD024144	35100417	Waves of sumoylation support transcription dynamics during adipocyte differentiation. 	Waves of sumoylation support transcription dynamics during adipocyte differentiation	ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, SUMO, adipocyte, adipose tissue, chromatin, differentiation, endogenous, native, transcription	Tight control of gene expression networks required for adipose tissue formation and plasticity is essential for adaptation to energy needs and environmental cues. However, the mechanisms that orchestrate the global and dramatic transcriptional changes leading to adipocyte differentiation remain to be fully unraveled. We investigated the regulation of nascent transcription by the sumoylation pathway during adipocyte differentiation using SLAMseq and ChIPseq. We discovered that the sumoylation pathway has a dual function in differentiation; it supports the initial downregulation of pre-adipocyte-specific genes, while it promotes the establishment of the mature adipocyte transcriptional program. By characterizing endogenous sumoylome dynamics in differentiating adipocytes by mass spectrometry, we found that sumoylation of specific transcription factors like PPARgamma/RXR and their co-factors are associated with the transcription of adipogenic genes. Finally, using RXR as a model, we found that sumoylation may regulate adipogenic transcription by supporting the chromatin occurrence of transcription factors. Our data demonstrate that the sumoylation pathway supports the rewiring of transcriptional networks required for formation of functional adipocytes. This study also provides the scientists in the field of cellular differentiation and development with an in-depth resource of the dynamics of the SUMO-chromatin landscape, SUMO-regulated transcription and endogenous sumoylation sites during adipocyte differentiation.
PXD026505	35100428	Vimentin binds to G-quadruplex repeats found at telomeres and gene promoters. 	Pull-down of nuclear proteins from HGC-27 cell line	HGC-27 cells, LC-MSE, in-gel tryptic digests, nuclear extracts, protein identification, pull-down assays	G-quadruplex (G4) structures that can form at guanine-rich genomic sites, including telomeres and gene promoters, are actively involved in genome maintenance, replication, and transcription, through finely tuned interactions with protein networks. In the present study, we identified the intermediate filament protein Vimentin as a binder with nanomolar affinity for those G-rich sequences that give rise to at least two adjacent G4 units, named G4 repeats. This interaction is supported by the N-terminal domains of soluble Vimentin tetramers. The selectivity of Vimentin for G4 repeats versus individual G4s provides an unprecedented result. Based on GO enrichment analysis performed on genes having putative G4 repeats within their core promoters, we suggest that Vimentin recruitment at these sites may contribute to the regulation of gene expression during cell development and migration, possibly by reshaping the local higher-order genome topology, as already reported for lamin B.
PXD030213	35101445	Modeling the CRL4A ligase complex to predict target protein ubiquitination induced by cereblon-recruiting PROTACs. 	Modeling CRL4A ligase complex to predict target protein ubiquitination induced by CRBN-recruiting PROTACs	PROTAC, TMT, Ubiqutination	PROteolysis TArgeting Chimeras (PROTACs) are hetero-bifunctional small molecules that can simultaneously recruit target proteins and E3 ligases to form a ternary complex, promoting target protein ubiquitination and degradation via the Ubiquitin-Proteasome System (UPS). PROTACs have gained increasing attention in recent years due to certain advantages over traditional therapeutic modalities and enabling targeting of previously "undruggable" proteins. To better understand the mechanism of PROTAC-induced Target Protein Degradation (TPD), several computational approaches have recently been developed to study and predict ternary complex formation. However, mounting evidence suggests that ubiquitination can also be a rate-limiting step in PROTAC-induced TPD. Here, we propose a structure-based computational approach to predict target protein ubiquitination induced by cereblon (CRBN)-based PROTACs by leveraging available structural information of the CRL4A ligase complex (CRBN/DDB1/CUL4A/Rbx1/NEDD8/E2/Ub). We generated ternary complex ensembles with Rosetta, modeled multiple CRL4A ligase complex conformations, and predicted ubiquitination efficiency by separating the ternary ensemble into productive and unproductive complexes based on the proximity of the ubiquitin to accessible lysines on the target protein. We validated our CRL4A ligase complex models with published ternary complex structures and additionally employed our modeling workflow to predict ubiquitination efficiencies and sites of a series of cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) after treatment with TL12-186, a pan-kinase PROTAC. Our predictions are consistent with CDK ubiquitination and site-directed mutagenesis of specific CDK lysine residues as measured using a NanoBRET ubiquitination assay in HEK293 cells. This work structurally links PROTAC-induced ternary formation and ubiquitination, representing an important step toward prediction of target "degradability."
PXD030548	35101446	Agonist-induced phosphorylation of orthologues of the orphan receptor GPR35 functions as an activation sensor. 	Agonist-induced phosphorylation of orthologues of the orphan receptor GPR35 as an activation biomarker	GPCR	G protein-coupled receptor 35 (GPR35) is poorly characterized but nevertheless has been revealed to have diverse roles in areas including lower gut inflammation and pain. The development of novel reagents and tools will greatly enhance analysis of GPR35 functions in health and disease. Here, we used mass spectrometry, mutagenesis, and [(32)P] orthophosphate labeling to identify that all five hydroxy-amino acids in the C-terminal tail of human GPR35a became phosphorylated in response to agonist occupancy of the receptor and that, apart from Ser(294), each of these contributed to interactions with arretin-3, which inhibits further G protein-coupled receptor signaling. We found that Ser(303) was key to such interactions; the serine corresponding to human GPR35a residue 303 also played a dominant role in arrestin-3 interactions for both mouse and rat GPR35. We also demonstrated that fully phospho-site-deficient mutants of human GPR35a and mouse GPR35 failed to interact effectively with arrestin-3, and the human phospho-deficient variant was not internalized from the surface of cells in response to agonist treatment. Even in cells stably expressing species orthologues of GPR35, a substantial proportion of the expressed protein(s) was determined to be immature. Finally, phospho-site-specific antisera targeting the region encompassing Ser(303) in human (Ser(301) in mouse) GPR35a identified only the mature forms of GPR35 and provided effective sensors of the activation status of the receptors both in immunoblotting and immunocytochemical studies. Such antisera may be useful tools to evaluate target engagement in drug discovery and target validation programs.
PXD029910	35101976	The NEDD8-activating enzyme inhibitor MLN4924 reduces ischemic brain injury in mice. 	The NEDD8-activating enzyme inhibitor MLN4924 reduces ischemic brain injury in mice	MLN4924, ischemic stroke	Blood-brain barrier (BBB) breakdown and inflammation occurring at the BBB have a key, mainly a deleterious role in the pathophysiology of ischemic stroke. Neddylation is a ubiquitylation-like pathway that is critical in various cellular functions by conjugating neuronal precursor cell-expressed developmentally down-regulated protein 8 (NEDD8) to target proteins. However, the roles of neddylation pathway in ischemic stroke remain elusive. Here, we report that NEDD8 conjugation increased during acute phase after ischemic stroke and was present in intravascular and intraparenchymal neutrophils. Inhibition of neddylation by MLN4924, also known as pevonedistat, inactivated cullin-RING E3 ligase (CRL), and reduced brain infarction and improved functional outcomes. MLN4924 treatment induced the accumulation of the CRL substrate neurofibromatosis 1 (NF1). By using virus-mediated NF1 silencing, we show that NF1 knockdown abolished MLN4924-dependent inhibition of neutrophil trafficking. These effects were mediated through activation of endothelial P-selectin and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and blocking antibodies against P-selectin or anti-ICAM-1 antibodies reversed NF1 silencing-induced increase in neutrophil infiltration in MLN4924-treated mice. Furthermore, we found that NF1 silencing blocked MLN4924-afforded BBB protection and neuroprotection through activation of protein kinase C delta (PKCdelta), myristoylated alanine-rich C-kinase substrate (MARCKS), and myosin light chain (MLC) in cerebral microvessels after ischemic stroke, and treatment of mice with the PKCdelta inhibitor rottlerin reduced this increased BBB permeability. Our study demonstrated that increased neddylation promoted neutrophil trafficking and thus exacerbated injury of the BBB and stroke outcomes. We suggest that the neddylation inhibition may be beneficial in ischemic stroke.
PXD027189	35101980	Sequence-specific RNA recognition by an RGG motif connects U1 and U2 snRNP for spliceosome assembly. 	Sequence specific recognition of U1 snRNP stem-loop 4 by the ubiquitin-like domain of U2 snRNP protein SF3A1 and its RGG motif	CLIR-MS, RNA-protein, RNA-protein complex, SF3A1, U1, U2, UV cross-linking, protein-RNA, protein-RNA complex, snRNP, spliceosome, splicing, structural proteomics	In mammals, the structural basis for the interaction between U1 and U2 small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs) during the early steps of splicing is still elusive. The binding of the ubiquitin-like (UBL) domain of SF3A1 to the stem-loop 4 of U1 snRNP (U1-SL4) contributes to this interaction. Here, we determined the 3D structure of the complex between the UBL of SF3A1 and U1-SL4 RNA. Our crystallography, NMR spectroscopy, and cross-linking mass spectrometry data show that SF3A1-UBL recognizes, sequence specifically, the GCG/CGC RNA stem and the apical UUCG tetraloop of U1-SL4. In vitro and in vivo mutational analyses support the observed intermolecular contacts and demonstrate that the carboxyl-terminal arginine-glycine-glycine-arginine (RGGR) motif of SF3A1-UBL binds sequence specifically by inserting into the RNA major groove. Thus, the characterization of the SF3A1-UBL/U1-SL4 complex expands the repertoire of RNA binding domains and reveals the capacity of RGG/RG motifs to bind RNA in a sequence-specific manner.
PXD028280	35104145	Exploring Human Milk Dynamics: Interindividual Variation in Milk Proteome, Peptidome, and Metabolome. 	Human milk dynamics: Inter-individual variation in milk proteome	Breast milk, Homo sapiens, proteins, variability	Human milk is a dynamic biofluid, and its detailed composition receives increasing attention. While most studies focus on changes over time or differences between maternal characteristics, interindividual variation receives little attention. Nevertheless, a comprehensive insight into this can help interpret human milk studies and help human milk banks provide targeted milk for recipients. This study aimed to map interindividual variation in the human milk proteome, peptidome, and metabolome and to investigate possible explanations for this variation. A set of 286 milk samples was collected from 29 mothers in the third month postpartum. Samples were pooled per mother, and proteins, peptides, and metabolites were analyzed. A substantial coefficient of variation (>100%) was observed for 4.6% and 36.2% of the proteins and peptides, respectively. In addition, using weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA), 5 protein and 11 peptide clusters were obtained, showing distinct characteristics. With this, several associations were found between the different data sets and with specific sample characteristics. This study provides insight into the dynamics of human milk protein, peptide, and metabolite composition. In addition, it will support future studies that evaluate the effect size of a parameter of interest by enabling a comparison with natural variability.
PXD026453	35104878	Cytoplasmic switch of ARS2 isoforms promotes nonsense-mediated mRNA decay and arsenic sensitivity. 	BioID samples ARS2/ARS2c1/ARS2c2	BioID data	The life of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) transcripts is shaped by the dynamic formation of mutually exclusive ribonucleoprotein complexes (RNPs) that direct transcript biogenesis and turnover. A key regulator of RNA metabolism in the nucleus is the scaffold protein ARS2 (arsenic resistance protein 2), bound to the cap binding complex (CBC). We report here that alternative splicing of ARS2's intron 5, generates cytoplasmic isoforms that lack 270 amino acids from the N-terminal of the protein and are functionally distinct from nuclear ARS2. Switching of ARS2 isoforms within the CBC in the cytoplasm has dramatic functional consequences, changing ARS2 from a NMD inhibitor to a NMD promoter that enhances the binding of UPF1 to NCBP1 and ERF1, favouring SURF complex formation, SMG7 recruitment and transcript degradation. ARS2 isoform exchange is also relevant during arsenic stress, where cytoplasmic ARS2 promotes a global response to arsenic in a CBC-independent manner. We propose that ARS2 isoform switching promotes the proper recruitment of RNP complexes during NMD and the cellular response to arsenic stress. The existence of non-redundant ARS2 isoforms is relevant for cell homeostasis, and stress response.
PXD026785	35105802	Human cytomegalovirus protein RL1 degrades the antiviral factor SLFN11 via recruitment of the CRL4 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. 	Human cytomegalovirus protein RL1 degrades the antiviral factor SLFN11 via recruitment of the CRL4 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex	Schlafen, host-pathogen interaction, human cytomegalovirus, immune evasion, innate immunity, restriction factor	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is an important human pathogen and a paradigm of viral immune evasion, targeting intrinsic, innate, and adaptive immunity. We have employed two orthogonal multiplexed tandem mass tag-based proteomic screens to identify host proteins down-regulated by viral factors expressed during the latest phases of viral infection. This approach revealed that the HIV-1 restriction factor Schlafen-11 (SLFN11) was degraded by the poorly characterized, late-expressed HCMV protein RL1, via recruitment of the Cullin4-RING E3 Ubiquitin Ligase (CRL4) complex. SLFN11 potently restricted HCMV infection, inhibiting the formation and spread of viral plaques. Overall, we show that a restriction factor previously thought only to inhibit RNA viruses additionally restricts HCMV. We define the mechanism of viral antagonism and also describe an important resource for revealing additional molecules of importance in antiviral innate immunity and viral immune evasion.
PXD027168	35105893	SARS-CoV-2 genomes from Saudi Arabia implicate nucleocapsid mutations in host response and increased viral load. 	Affinity Purification Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Mutant and Wildtype SARS-CoV-2 Nucleocapsid Protein	COVID-19, Covid-19, Data dependent acqusition (DDA), Nucleocapsid Protein, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2	Monitoring SARS-CoV-2 spread and evolution through genome sequencing is essential in handling the COVID-19 pandemic. Here, we sequenced 892 SARS-CoV-2 genomes collected from patients in Saudi Arabia from March to August 2020. We show that two consecutive mutations (R203K/G204R) in the nucleocapsid (N) protein are associated with higher viral loads in COVID-19 patients. Our comparative biochemical analysis reveals that the mutant N protein displays enhanced viral RNA binding and differential interaction with key host proteins. We found increased interaction of GSK3A kinase simultaneously with hyper-phosphorylation of the adjacent serine site (S206) in the mutant N protein. Furthermore, the host cell transcriptome analysis suggests that the mutant N protein produces dysregulated interferon response genes. Here, we provide crucial information in linking the R203K/G204R mutations in the N protein to modulations of host-virus interactions and underline the potential of the nucleocapsid protein as a drug target during infection.
PXD027788	35106611	Optimization of proteomics sample preparation for identification of host and bacterial proteins in mouse feces. 	Optimization of a Sample Preparation Workflow for Proteomics Analysis of the Mouse Feces	Bottom-up Proteomics, Filtration method, Lysis buffer, Optimization, Sample Preparation	Bottom-up proteomics is a powerful method for the functional characterization of mouse gut microbiota. To date, most of the bottom-up proteomics studies of the mouse gut rely on limited amounts of fecal samples. With mass-limited samples, the performance of such analyses is highly dependent on the protein extraction protocols and contaminant removal strategies. Here, protein extraction protocols (using different lysis buffers) and contaminant removal strategies (using different types of filters and beads) were systematically evaluated to maximize quantitative reproducibility and the number of identified proteins. Overall, our results recommend a protein extraction method using a combination of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and urea in Tris-HCl to yield the greatest number of protein identifications. These conditions led to an increase in the number of proteins identified from gram-positive bacteria, such as Firmicutes and Actinobacteria, which is a challenging task. Our analysis further confirmed these conditions led to the extraction of non-abundant bacterial phyla such as Proteobacteria. In addition, we found that, when coupled to our optimized extraction method, suspension trap (S-Trap) outperforms other contaminant removal methods by providing the most reproducible method while producing the greatest number of protein identifications. Overall, our optimized sample preparation workflow is straightforward and fast, and requires minimal sample handling. Furthermore, our approach does not require high amounts of fecal samples, a vital consideration in proteomics studies where mice produce smaller amounts of feces due to a particular physiological condition. Our final method provides efficient digestion of mouse fecal material, is reproducible, and leads to high proteomic coverage for both host and microbiome proteins.
PXD029350	35107270	Multiplexed Isobaric Quantitative Cross-Linking Reveals Drug-Induced Interactome Changes in Breast Cancer Cells. 	Multiplexed isobaric quantitative cross-linking reveals drug-induced interactome changes in breast cancer cells	breast cancer, cross-linking	The study of protein structures and interactions is critical to understand their function. Chemical cross-linking of proteins with mass spectrometry (XL-MS) is a rapidly developing structural biology technique able to provide valuable insight into protein conformations and interactions, even as they exist within their native cellular environment. Quantitative analysis of cross-links can reveal protein conformational and interaction changes that occur as a result of altered biological states, environmental conditions, or pharmacological perturbations. Our laboratory recently developed an isobaric quantitative protein interaction reporter (iqPIR) cross-linking strategy for comparative interactome studies. This strategy relies on isotope encoded chemical cross-linkers that have the same molecular mass yet produce unique and specific isotope signatures upon fragmentation in the mass spectrometer which can be used for quantitative analysis of cross-linked peptides. The initial set of iqPIR molecules allowed for binary comparisons. Here, we describe the in vivo application of an extended set of six iqPIR reagents (6-plex iqPIR), allowing multiplexed quantitative interactome analysis of up to six biological samples in a single LC-MS acquisition. Multiplexed iqPIR is demonstrated on MCF-7 breast cancer cells treated with five different Hsp90 inhibitors revealing large scale protein conformational and interaction changes specific to the molecular class of the inhibitors.
PXD029654	35111047	Activation of Autophagy Through the NLRP3/mTOR Pathway: A Potential Mechanism for Alleviation of Pneumonia by QingFei Yin. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of mice lung	Mice, lung	QingFei Yin (QFY), a Chinese traditional medicine recipe, is known for its excellent therapeutic pharmacological effects for the treatment of bacterial lung infections, although its molecular mechanism of action remains unknown. Here, QFY chemical composition was determined using a High-Performance Liquid Chromatography-Mass (HPLC-MS/MS)-based method then QFY was evaluated for protective pharmacological effects against pneumonia using two models: a Streptococcus pneumoniae-induced in vivo mouse model and an in vitro pneumolysin (PLY)-induced murine lung alveolar-derived MH-S cell line-based model. Notably, QFY exerted prominent anti-pneumonia effects both in vivo and in vitro. To further explore QFY protective effects, 4D label-free proteomics analysis, pathologic evaluation, and immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis were conducted to identify cellular pathways involved in QFY protection. Notably, our results indicated that NF-kappaB/NLRP3 and autophagy pathways may contribute to pharmacological effects associated with QFY-based protection. Briefly, QFY triggered autophagy via down-regulation of upstream NLRP3/mTOR signaling pathway events, resulting in the amelioration of inflammatory injury. Collectively, our results revealed molecular mechanisms underlying QFY protection against pneumonia as a foundation for the future development of novel treatments to combat this disease and reduce antibiotic abuse.
PXD024436	35111057	Proteomics Study Reveals the Anti-Depressive Mechanisms and the Compatibility Advantage of Chaihu-Shugan-San in a Rat Model of Chronic Unpredictable Mild Stress. 	Proteomic of Chaihu-Shugan-San (CSS), Rou Gan, and Shu Gan treat chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) rat with Tandem Mass Tags	Chaihu-Shugan-San, Depression, Hippocampus, Traditional Chinese medicine	Background: Chaihu-Shugan-San is a classical prescription to treat depression. According to the traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) principle, the 2 decomposed recipes in Chaihu-Shugan-San exert synergistic effects, including Shu Gan (stagnated Gan-Qi dispersion) and Rou Gan (Gan nourishment to alleviate pain). However, the specific mechanism of Chaihu-Shugan-San on depression and its compatibility rule remain to be explored. Objective: We aimed to explore the anti-depression mechanisms and analyze the advantage of TCM compatibility of Chaihu-Shugan-San. Methods: The chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS) rat model was established. Antidepressant effects were evaluated by sucrose preference test (SPT), and forced swimming test (FST). Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics of the hippocampus was used to obtain differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Bioinformatics analysis including Gene Ontology (GO), pathway enrichment, and protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks was utilized to study the DEPs connections. At last, the achieved key targets were verified by western blotting. Results: Chaihu-Shugan-San increased weight gain and food intake, as well as exhibited better therapeutic effects including enhanced sucrose preference and extended immobility time when compared with its decomposed recipes. Proteomics showed Chaihu-Shugan-San, Shu Gan, and Rou Gan regulated 110, 12, and 407 DEPs, respectively. Compared with Shu Gan or Rou Gan alone, the expression of 22 proteins was additionally changed by Chaihu-Shugan-San treatment, whereas the expression of 323 proteins whose expression was changed by Shu Gan or Rou Gan alone were not changed by Chaihu-Shugan-San treatment. Bioinformatics analysis demonstrated that Chaihu-Shugan-San affected neurotransmitter's release and transmission cycle (e.g., gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), glutamate, serotonin, norepinephrine, dopamine, and acetylcholine). GABA release pathway is also targeted by the 22 DEPs. Unexpectedly, only 2 pathways were enriched by the 323 DEPs: Metabolism and Cellular responses to external stimuli. Lastly, the expression of Gad2, Vamp2, and Pde2a was verified by western blotting. Conclusions: Chaihu-Shugan-San treats depression via multiple targets and pathways, which may include regulations of 110 DEPs and some neurotransmitter's transmission cycle. Compared with Shu Gan and Rou Gan, the 22 Chaihu-Shugan-San advanced proteins and the affected GABA pathway may be the advantages of Chaihu-Shugan-San compatibility. This research offers data and theory support for the clinical application of Chaihu-Shugan-San.
PXD029007	35111156	Exosomes Recovered From the Plasma of COVID-19 Patients Expose SARS-CoV-2 Spike-Derived Fragments and Contribute to the Adaptive Immune Response. 	Plasma-derived Exosome-Like Vesicles (ELVs) of COVID-19 patients expose SARS-CoV-2-Spike-derived fragments and contribute to the adaptive immune response	COVID-19, Exosome-Like Vesicles (ELVs), LCMSMS	Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by beta-coronavirus severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) that has rapidly spread across the globe starting from February 2020. It is well established that during viral infection, extracellular vesicles become delivery/presenting vectors of viral material. However, studies regarding extracellular vesicle function in COVID-19 pathology are still scanty. Here, we performed a comparative study on exosomes recovered from the plasma of either MILD or SEVERE COVID-19 patients. We show that although both types of vesicles efficiently display SARS-CoV-2 spike-derived peptides and carry immunomodulatory molecules, only those of MILD patients are capable of efficiently regulating antigen-specific CD4(+) T-cell responses. Accordingly, by mass spectrometry, we show that the proteome of exosomes of MILD patients correlates with a proper functioning of the immune system, while that of SEVERE patients is associated with increased and chronic inflammation. Overall, we show that exosomes recovered from the plasma of COVID-19 patients possess SARS-CoV-2-derived protein material, have an active role in enhancing the immune response, and possess a cargo that reflects the pathological state of patients in the acute phase of the disease.
PXD030317	35111755	Revisiting the Role of beta-Tubulin in Drosophila Development: beta-tubulin60D is not an Essential Gene, and its Novel Pin 1 Allele has a Tissue-Specific Dominant-Negative Impact. 	Revisiting the role of beta-tubulin in Drosophila development: beta-tubulin60D is not an essential gene, and its novel Pin1 allele has a tissue-specific dominant-negative impact	pin1 development tubulin	Diversity in cytoskeleton organization and function may be achieved through alternative tubulin isotypes and by a variety of post-translational modifications. The Drosophila genome contains five different beta-tubulin paralogs, which may play an isotype tissue-specific function in vivo. One of these genes, the beta-tubulin60D gene, which is expressed in a tissue-specific manner, was found to be essential for fly viability and fertility. To further understand the role of the beta-tubulin60D gene, we generated new beta-tubulin60D null alleles (beta-tubulin60D M ) using the CRISPR/Cas9 system and found that the homozygous flies were viable and fertile. Moreover, using a combination of genetic complementation tests, rescue experiments, and cell biology analyses, we identified Pin 1 , an unknown dominant mutant with bristle developmental defects, as a dominant-negative allele of beta-tubulin60D. We also found a missense mutation in the Pin(1) mutant that results in an amino acid replacement from the highly conserved glutamate at position 75 to lysine (E75K). Analyzing the beta-tubulin structure suggests that this E75K alteration destabilizes the alpha-helix structure and may also alter the GTP-Mg(2+) complex binding capabilities. Our results revisited the credence that beta-tubulin60D is required for fly viability and revealed for the first time in Drosophila, a novel dominant-negative function of missense beta-tubulin60D mutation in bristle morphogenesis.
PXD018871	35115556	Receptor-interacting protein kinase 2 (RIPK2) stabilizes c-Myc and is a therapeutic target in prostate cancer metastasis. 	Phophoproteomic identification of kinases downstream of RIPK2	KSEA, Kinases, Phosphoproteomics, Prostate Cancer, RIPK2	Despite progress in prostate cancer (PC) therapeutics, distant metastasis remains a major cause of morbidity and mortality from PC. Thus, there is growing recognition that preventing or delaying PC metastasis holds great potential for substantially improving patient outcomes. Here we show receptor-interacting protein kinase 2 (RIPK2) is a clinically actionable target for inhibiting PC metastasis. RIPK2 is amplified/gained in ~65% of lethal metastatic castration-resistant PC. Its overexpression is associated with disease progression and poor prognosis, and its genetic knockout substantially reduces PC metastasis. Multi-level proteomics analyses reveal that RIPK2 strongly regulates the stability and activity of c-Myc (a driver of metastasis), largely via binding to and activating mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 7 (MKK7), which we identify as a direct c-Myc-S62 kinase. RIPK2 inhibition by preclinical and clinical drugs inactivates the noncanonical RIPK2/MKK7/c-Myc pathway and effectively impairs PC metastatic outgrowth. These results support targeting RIPK2 signaling to extend metastasis-free and overall survival.
PXD021649	35119270	Online Electrochemical Reduction of Both Inter- and Intramolecular Disulfide Bridges in Immunoglobulins. 	Online electrochemical reduction of both inter- and intramolecular disulfide bridges in immunoglobulins	Electrochemical reduction, antibody, disulfide, top-down	Electrochemical reduction of intermolecular disulfide bridges has previously been demonstrated in immunoglobulins but failed to achieve reduction of intramolecular bonds. We now report an improved method that achieves the full reduction of both intermolecular and intramolecular disulfide bridges in a set of monoclonal antibodies based on their intact mass and on MS/MS analysis. The system uses an online electrochemical flow cell positioned online between a chromatography system and a mass spectrometer to give direct information on pairs of heavy and light chains in an antibody. The complete reduction of the intramolecular disulfide bridges is important, as the redox state affects the intact mass of the antibody chain. Disulfide bonds also hamper MS/MS fragmentation of protein chains and thus limit the confirmation of the amino acid sequence of the protein of interest. The improved electrochemical system and associated protocols can simplify sample processing prior to analysis, as chemical reduction is not required. Also, it opens up new possibilities in the top-down mass spectrometry analysis of samples containing complex biomolecules with inter- and intramolecular disulfide bridges.
PXD028799	35119359	Novel insights from a multiomics dissection of the Hayflick limit. 	Revisiting the Hayflick Limit: Insights from an Integrated Analysis of Changing Transcripts, Proteins, Metabolites and Chromatin.	Hayflick Limit	The process wherein dividing cells exhaust proliferative capacity and enter into replicative senescence has become a prominent model for cellular aging in vitro. Despite decades of study, this cellular state is not fully understood in culture and even much less so during aging. Here, we revisit Leonard Hayflick's original observation of replicative senescence in WI-38 human lung fibroblasts equipped with a battery of modern techniques including RNA-seq, single-cell RNA-seq, proteomics, metabolomics, and ATAC-seq. We find evidence that the transition to a senescent state manifests early, increases gradually, and corresponds to a concomitant global increase in DNA accessibility in nucleolar and lamin associated domains. Furthermore, we demonstrate that senescent WI-38 cells acquire a striking resemblance to myofibroblasts in a process similar to the epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT) that is regulated by t YAP1/TEAD1 and TGF-beta2. Lastly, we show that verteporfin inhibition of YAP1/TEAD1 activity in aged WI-38 cells robustly attenuates this gene expression program.
PXD027284	35119498	Comparison of characteristics and tumor targeting properties of extracellular vesicles derived from primary NK cells or NK-cell lines stimulated with IL-15 or IL-12/15/18. 	NK-cell derived extracellular vesicles LC-MS/MS	CD16, IL-12, IL-15, IL-18, KHYG-1, NK cells, NK-92	NK cell-based therapies have shown promise for hematological cancer forms, but their use against solid tumors is hampered by their poor ability to infiltrate the tumor. NK cells release extracellular vesicles (EVs) containing cytolytic proteins, indicating that NK-cell derived EVs may have therapeutic potential. In this study, we compared the tumor-targeting potential of EVs derived from either primary NK cells or the NK cell lines NK-92 and KHYG-1 cultured in IL-15 alone or in combination with IL-12 and IL-18. Primary NK cells were also stimulated through the activating receptor CD16. Tumor cell apoptosis was measured using a panel of human colon, melanoma, glioblastoma, prostate, breast, and ovarian tumor cell line spheroids. NK cells or NK-92 cells stimulated with IL-12, IL-15, and IL-18 generated EVs with higher efficiency than EVs from resting cells, although similar amounts of EVs were produced under both conditions. Proteomic analysis indicated similar distribution of cytolytic proteins in EVs from primary NK cells and NK-92, but lower levels in KHYG-1 EVs that translated into poor capacity for KHYG-1 EVs at targeting tumor cell lines. Further, we show that CD16-stimulated NK cells release low amounts of EVs devoid of cytolytic proteins. Importantly, EVs from cytokine-stimulated NK cells penetrate into the spheroid core, and tumor spheroid susceptibility to NK-cell derived EVs was linked to differential expression of the NKG2D ligands MICA/B, which was blocked with an anti-NKG2D antibody. We conclude that EVs from activated primary NK cells or NK-92 cells has the best potential to infiltrate and target solid tumors.
PXD026974	35119778	Optimization of small extracellular vesicle isolation from expressed prostatic secretions in urine for in-depth proteomic analysis. 	Optimization of small extracellular vesicle isolation from expressed prostatic secretions in urine for in-depth proteomic analysis	EPS-Urine, EV, Expressed Prostatic Secretions in Urine, Extracellular Vesicles, Label-Free, Prostate Cancer, Urine	The isolation and subsequent molecular analysis of extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from patient samples is a widely used strategy to understand vesicle biology and to facilitate biomarker discovery. Expressed prostatic secretions in urine are a tumor proximal fluid that has received significant attention as a source of potential prostate cancer (PCa) biomarkers for use in liquid biopsy protocols. Standard EV isolation methods like differential ultracentrifugation (dUC) co-isolate protein contaminants that mask lower-abundance proteins in typical mass spectrometry (MS) protocols. Further complicating the analysis of expressed prostatic secretions, uromodulin, also known as Tamm-Horsfall protein (THP), is present at high concentrations in urine. THP can form polymers that entrap EVs during purification, reducing yield. Disruption of THP polymer networks with dithiothreitol (DTT) can release trapped EVs, but smaller THP fibres co-isolate with EVs during subsequent ultracentrifugation. To resolve these challenges, we describe here a dUC method that incorporates THP polymer reduction and alkaline washing to improve EV isolation and deplete both THP and other common protein contaminants. When applied to human expressed prostatic secretions in urine, we achieved relative enrichment of known prostate and prostate cancer-associated EV-resident proteins. Our approach provides a promising strategy for global proteomic analyses of urinary EVs.
PXD026834	35121883	IRS1 phosphorylation underlies the non-stochastic probability of cancer cells to persist during EGFR inhibition therapy. 	IRS1 phosphorylation determines a heritable probability of cancer cells to persist during EGFR inhibition therapy	Cancer, EGFR inhibition, IRS1, NSCLC, cancer persisters, drug resistance, drug tolerant cells	Stochastic transition of cancer cells between drug-sensitive and drug-tolerant persister phenotypes has been proposed to play a key role in non-genetic resistance to therapy. Yet, we show here that cancer cells actually possess a highly stable inherited chance to persist (CTP) during therapy. This CTP is non-stochastic, determined pre-treatment and has a unimodal distribution ranging from 0 to almost 100%. Notably, CTP is drug specific. We found that differential serine/threonine phosphorylation of the insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1) protein determines the CTP of lung and of head and neck cancer cells under epidermal growth factor receptor inhibition, both in vitro and in vivo. Indeed, the first-in-class IRS1 inhibitor NT219 was highly synergistic with anti-epidermal growth factor receptor therapy across multiple in vitro and in vivo models. Elucidation of drug-specific mechanisms that determine the degree and stability of cellular CTP may establish a framework for the elimination of cancer persisters, using new rationally designed drug combinations.
PXD018883	35121989	A tumor-derived type III collagen-rich ECM niche regulates tumor cell dormancy. 	ECM of proliferative vs dormant HNSCC	Extracellular matrix, Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, tumor dormacy, tumor microenvironment, xenografts	Cancer cells disseminate and seed in distant organs, where they can remain dormant for many years before forming clinically detectable metastases. Here we studied how disseminated tumor cells sense and remodel the extracellular matrix (ECM) to sustain dormancy. ECM proteomics revealed that dormant cancer cells assemble a type III collagen-enriched ECM niche. Tumor-derived type III collagen is required to sustain tumor dormancy, as its disruption restores tumor cell proliferation through DDR1-mediated STAT1 signaling. Second-harmonic generation two-photon microscopy further revealed that the dormancy-to-reactivation transition is accompanied by changes in type III collagen architecture and abundance. Analysis of clinical samples revealed that type III collagen levels were increased in tumors from patients with lymph node-negative head and neck squamous cell carcinoma compared to patients who were positive for lymph node colonization. Our data support the idea that the manipulation of these mechanisms could serve as a barrier to metastasis through disseminated tumor cell dormancy induction.
PXD027877	35122074	Selective multi-kinase inhibition sensitizes mesenchymal pancreatic cancer to immune checkpoint blockade by remodeling the tumor microenvironment. 	Combinatorial high throughput drug screening identifies a synergistic drug interaction that sensitizes mesenchymal pancreatic cancer to immune checkpoint blockade	combination therapy, immune checkpoint inhibition, pancreatic cancer	KRAS-mutant pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is highly immunosuppressive and resistant to targeted and immunotherapies. Among the different PDAC subtypes, basal-like mesenchymal PDAC, which is driven by allelic imbalance, increased gene dosage and subsequent high expression levels of oncogenic KRAS, shows the most aggressive phenotype and strongest therapy resistance. In the present study, we performed a systematic high-throughput combination drug screen and identified a synergistic interaction between the MEK inhibitor trametinib and the multi-kinase inhibitor nintedanib, which targets KRAS-directed oncogenic signaling in mesenchymal PDAC. This combination treatment induces cell-cycle arrest and cell death, and initiates a context-dependent remodeling of the immunosuppressive cancer cell secretome. Using a combination of single-cell RNA-sequencing, CRISPR screens and immunophenotyping, we show that this combination therapy promotes intratumor infiltration of cytotoxic and effector T cells, which sensitizes mesenchymal PDAC to PD-L1 immune checkpoint inhibition. Overall, our results open new avenues to target this aggressive and therapy-refractory mesenchymal PDAC subtype.
PXD028425	35123555	Human menstrual blood-derived stem cell transplantation suppresses liver injury in DDC-induced chronic cholestasis. 	Human menstrual blood-derived stem cell transplantation suppresses liver injury in DDC-induced chronic cholestasis	MenSC, liver injury, treatment	BACKGROUND: Cholestatic liver injury can lead to serious symptoms and prognoses in the clinic. Currently, an effective medical treatment is not available for cholestatic liver injury. Human menstrual blood-derived stem cells (MenSCs) are considered as an emerging treatment in various diseases. This study aimed to explore the treatment effect of MenSCs in cholestatic liver injury. METHODS: The treatment effect of MenSCs on chronic cholestatic liver injury was verified in 3,5-diethoxycarbonyl-1,4-dihydroxychollidine (DDC)-induced C57/BL6 mice. Pathological, fibrosis area in the liver tissue and serum liver enzymes were tested. Proteomics and western blot were used to explore the related targets and molecular mechanisms. Adeno-associated virus (AAV) 9-infected mice were applied for verification. RESULTS: MenSCs markedly improved the survival rate of the DDC-treated mice (60% vs. 100%), and decreased the mouse serum aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (169.4 vs. 108.0 U/L, p < 0.001), alanine aminotransferase (ALT) (279.0 vs. 228.9 U/L, p < 0.01), alkaline phosphatase (ALP) (45.6 vs. 10.6 U/L, p < 0.0001), direct bilirubin (DBIL) (108.3 vs. 14.0 mumol/L, p < 0.0001) and total bilirubin (TBIL) (179.2 vs. 43.3 mumol/L, p < 0.0001) levels as well as intrahepatic cholestasis, bile duct dilation and fibrotic areas (16.12 vs. 6.57%, p < 0.05). The results further indicated that MenSCs repaired the DDC-induced liver tight junction (TJ) pathway and bile transporter (OATP2, BSEP and NTCP1) injury, thereby inhibiting COL1A1, alpha-SMA and TGF-beta1 activation by upregulating liver beta-catenin expression. CONCLUSIONS: MenSC transplantation could be an effective treatment method for cholestatic liver injury in mice. MenSCs may exhibit therapeutic effects by regulating beta-catenin expression.
PXD019172	35124023	p38-MAPK recruits the proteolytic pathways in Caenorhabditis elegans during bacterial infection. 	p38-MAPK recruits the proteolysis pathways in Caenorhabditis elegans during bacterial infection	Coimmunoprecipitation and LC-MS/MS, MALDI-ToF-MS, SUMOylation, TiO2 column chromatography	In eukaryotic organisms, cell-signalling completely relies on Post Translational Modifications (PTMs) that can function as regulatory switches. Phosphorylation is a fundamental and frequently occurring PTM in almost all eukaryotes. Herein, we have studied the importance of protein phosphorylation using classical proteomic techniques in C. elegans upon bacterial infection. The differentially regulated proteins during bacterial infection were excised from SDS-PAGE (One-Dimensional) gel (TiO2 column elutes) and subjected to MALDI-TOF-MS which ended up in identifying 220 proteins kinetically. KEGG pathway analysis of those proteins suggested that MAPK pathway was part of the innate immunity. Thus, we have characterized p38-MAPK (one of the crucial downstream MAPKs) using immunoblotting, subcellular fractionation, coimmunoprecipitation, LC-MS/MS, bioinformatics studies and qPCR. Meanwhile, KU25 strain (pmk-1 mutant) exhibited an earlier mortality during infection suggesting the crucial role of p38-MAPK during host-pathogen interaction. Interestingly, Reactome pathway analysis of p38 interactors (CoIP coupled to LC-MS/MS) revealed the involvement of various proteolytic pathway players (ubiquitination, SUMOylation and Neddylation) during bacterial infection. Further, the regulation of SUMOylation and Neddylation was identified and validated using immunoblotting and qPCR analyses, respectively. Concisely, our study indicated that bacterial infection triggers the MAPK cascade to elicit innate immunity which in turn recruits proteolytic pathways to counteract the invading pathogen.
PXD030724	35124278	Isotopic N,N-dimethyl leucine tags for absolute quantification of clusterin and apolipoprotein E in Alzheimer's disease. 	Isotopic N,N-dimethyl leucine tags for absolute quantification of clusterin and  apolipoprotein E in Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimer's disease, Protein quantitation, absolute quantification, apolipoprotein E, biomarker analysis, clusterin, isotopic labeling, serum	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia and one of the leading causes of death in the United States. In the past decades, extensive efforts have been devoted to biomarker discovery for early diagnosis and treatment of AD. Herein, this study aims to quantify clusterin (CLU) and apolipoprotein E (APOE) in blood samples from AD patients and evaluate these two proteins as potential biomarkers in AD diagnosis. In-house synthesized 5-plex isotopic N,N-dimethyl leucine (iDiLeu) tags were used to label target peptide standards at different concentrations to construct standard curves. Our study revealed that the levels of CLU and APOE exhibited clear differences in male vs. female AD groups but not in male vs. female non-AD groups. In contrast, the levels of serum CLU and APOE did not show statistically significant differences in the AD groups and non-AD groups. Principal component analysis (PCA) with CLU and APOE showed some separation between the AD and non-AD participants. Significance: Dissecting CLU and APOE heterogeneity in AD pathogenesis may therefore facilitate delineating the pathological relevance for sex-related pathways, leading to personalized medicine in the future. Collectively, this study introduces a cost-effective absolute quantitative proteomics strategy for target protein quantitation and lays the foundation for future investigation of CLU and APOE as potential biomarkers for AD. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: As blood-based biomarkers for AD diagnosis are cost-effective and introduce less invasiveness, discovery and validation of biomarkers in the blood samples of AD patients have become a hot topic in Alzheimer's and dementia research. Thus far, amyloid beta (Abeta), total-tau and phosphorylated tau (p-tau) in blood show great accuracy and specificity in diagnosis of AD. However, the underlying mechanism of AD pathology remains to be elusive and complex. Besides these well studied proteins, many other proteins, such as clusterin (CLU) and apolipoprotein E (APOE) have also been found to be related to AD development. It has been implicated that these two proteins are involved in Abeta clearance and deposition. In this study, we measure the absolute concentrations of these two proteins in blood and shed some light on the potential roles of CLU and APOE in AD pathology. Dissecting CLU and APOE heterogeneity in AD pathogenesis may therefore facilitate delineating the pathological relevance for specific pathways between different genders, leading to personalized medicine in the future. Collectively, this study introduces a cost-effective absolute quantitative proteomics strategy for target protein quantitation and lays the foundation for future investigation of CLU and APOE as potential biomarkers for AD.
PXD027040	35127151	Extracellular Vesicles from Mycoplasmas Can Penetrate Eukaryotic Cells In Vitro and Modulate the Cellular Proteome. 	Extracellular vesicles of Acholeplasma laidlawii can be internalized by human fibroblasts and modulate expression of proteins	2D-DIGE, Acholeplasma laidlawii, MALDI, extracellular vesicles	The extracellular vesicles (EVs) produced by bacteria transport a wide range of compounds, including proteins, DNA and RNA, mediate intercellular interactions, and may be important participants in the mechanisms underlying the persistence of infectious agents. This study focuses on testing the hypothesis that the EVs of mycoplasmas, the smallest prokaryotes capable of independent reproduction, combined in the class referred to as Mollicutes, can penetrate into eukaryotic cells and modulate their immunoreactivity. To verify this hypothesis, for the first time, studies of in vitro interaction between human skin fibroblasts and vesicles isolated from Acholeplasma laidlawii (the ubiquitous mycoplasma that infects higher eukaryotes and is the main contaminant of cell cultures and vaccines) were conducted using confocal laser scanning microscopy and proteome profiling, employing a combination of 2D-DIGE and MALDI-TOF/TOF, the Mascot mass-spectrum analysis software and the DAVID functional annotation tool. These studies have revealed for the first time that the extracellular vesicles of A. laidlawii can penetrate into eukaryotic cells in vitro and modulate the expression of cellular proteins. The molecular mechanisms behind the interaction of mycoplasma vesicles with eukaryotic cells and the contribution of the respective nanostructures to the molecular machinery of cellular permissiveness still remain to be elucidated. The study of these aspects is relevant both for fundamental research into the "logic of life" of the simplest prokaryotes, and the practical development of efficient control over hypermutable bacteria infecting humans, animals and plants, as well as contaminating cell cultures and vaccines.
PXD020698	35127173	Coordination of root growth with root morphology, physiology and defense functions in response to root pruning in Platycladus orientalis. 	iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis of Platycladus orientalis roots	Platycladus orientalis, iTRAQ LC-MS/MS, root	Introduction: Root pruning is commonly used to facilitate seedling transplantation for the restoration of degraded or damaged ecosystems. However, little is known about how root growth coordinates morphology, physiology and defense functions following root pruning. Objectives: We aim to elucidate whether and how root growth trades off with defense functioning after pruning. Methods: Seedlings of Platycladus orientalis, a tree species widely used in forest restoration, were subjected to root pruning treatment. A suite of root growth, morphological and physiological traits were measured after pruning in combination with proteomic analysis. Results: Root growth was insensitive to pruning until at 504 h with a significant increase of 16.8%, whereas root physiology was activated rapidly after pruning. Key root morphological traits, such as root diameter, specific root length and root tissue density, showed no response to the pruning treatment. Plant defense syndromes such as reactive oxygen species-scavenging enzymes and defensive phytohormones such as jasmonic acid and abscisic acid, were recruited at six hours after pruning and recovered to the unpruned levels at 504 h. Compared with the controls, 271, 360 and 106 proteins were differentially expressed at 6, 72 and 504 h after root pruning, respectively. These proteins, associated with defense function, showed temporal patterns similar to the above defense syndromes. Conclusion: Our results suggest a root growth-defense tradeoff following root pruning in P. orientalis. This tradeoff was potentially due to the significant increase of indole-3-acetic acid, the phytohormone stimulating root branching, which occurred soon after pruning. Together, these results provide a holistic understanding of how root growth is coordinated with root morphology, physiology, and defense in response to root pruning.
PXD021195	35127379	The gut microbial metabolite, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid, alleviates hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury via mitigation of macrophage pro-inflammatory activity in mice. 	A novel protective microbial metabolite against HIRI in mice	HIRI,Inflammation,HDAC	Hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury (HIRI) is a serious complication that occurs following shock and/or liver surgery. Gut microbiota and their metabolites are key upstream modulators of development of liver injury. Herein, we investigated the potential contribution of gut microbes to HIRI. Ischemia/reperfusion surgery was performed to establish a murine model of HIRI. 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metabolomics were used for microbial analysis. Transcriptomics and proteomics analysis were employed to study the host cell responses. Our results establish HIRI was significantly increased when surgery occurred in the evening (ZT12, 20:00) when compared with the morning (ZT0, 08:00); however, antibiotic pretreatment reduced this diurnal variation. The abundance of a microbial metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid was significantly higher in ZT0 when compared with ZT12 in the gut and this compound significantly protected mice against HIRI. Furthermore, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid suppressed the macrophage pro-inflammatory response in vivo and in vitro. This metabolite inhibits histone deacetylase activity by reducing its phosphorylation. Histone deacetylase inhibition suppressed macrophage pro-inflammatory activation and diminished the diurnal variation of HIRI. Our findings revealed a novel protective microbial metabolite against HIRI in mice. The potential underlying mechanism was at least in part, via 3,4-dihydroxyphenylpropionic acid-dependent immune regulation and histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibition in macrophages.
PXD029963	35127876	Computational Screening Strategy for Drug Repurposing Identified Niclosamide as Inhibitor of Vascular Calcification. 	Computational Prediction, Validation and Repurposing of Existing Drug as Inhibitor of Vascular Calcification	Drug discovery, Wnt signaling, drug repurposing, mice, vascular calcification	Vascular calcification is a cardiovascular disorder with no therapeutic options. We recently reported that o-octanoyltransferase (CROT) suppression can inhibit vascular calcification in vivo and in vitro through amelioration of mitochondrial function and fatty acid metabolism. Inhibiting calcification with a small molecule compound targeting CROT-associated mechanisms will be a promising non-invasive treatment of vascular calcification. Here we used a computational approach to search for existing drugs that can inhibit vascular calcification through the CROT pathway. For screening of the compounds that reduce CROT expression, we utilized the Connectivity Map encompassing the L1000 computational platform that contains transcription profiles of various cell lines and perturbagens including small molecules. Small molecules (n = 13) were identified and tested in human primary smooth muscle cells cultured in osteogenic media to induce calcification. Niclosamide, an FDA-improved anthelmintic drug, markedly inhibited calcification along with reduced alkaline phosphatase activity and CROT mRNA expression. To validate this compound in vivo, LDL receptor (Ldlr)-deficient mice fed a high fat diet were given oral doses of niclosamide (0 or 750 ppm admixed with diet) for 10 weeks. Niclosamide treatment decreased aortic and carotid artery calcification as determined by optical near infrared molecular imaging (OsteoSense680) and histological analysis. In addition, niclosamide improved features of fatty liver, including decreased cholesterol levels along with decreased Crot expression, while plasma total cholesterol levels did not change. Proteomic analysis of aortic samples demonstrated that niclosamide affected wingless/integrated (Wnt) signaling pathway and decreased runt-related transcription factor 2 (Runx2) expression, an essential factor for calcification. Our target discovery strategy using a genetic perturbation database with existing drugs identified niclosamide, that in turn inhibited calcification in vivo and in vitro, indicating its potential for the treatment of vascular calcification.
PXD026952	35128241	Proteomic Changes in the Monolayer and Spheroid Melanoma Cell Models of Acquired Resistance to BRAF and MEK1/2 Inhibitors. 	Differential patterns of protein expression in monolayer or spheroid melanoma cell models of acquired resistance to BRAF and MEK1/2 inhibitors	BRAF, drug resistance, extracellular-signal regulated kinases, kinase targeted therapy, melanoma, monolayer, protein kinases, selumetinib, spheroids, vemurafenib	Extracellular signal-regulated kinase-1/2 (ERK1/2) pathway inhibitors are important therapies for treating many cancers. However, acquired resistance to most protein kinase inhibitors limits their ability to provide durable responses. Approximately 50% of malignant melanomas contain activating mutations in BRAF, which promotes cancer cell survival through the direct phosphorylation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase MAPK/ERK 1/2 (MEK1/2) and the activation of ERK1/2. Although the combination treatment with BRAF and MEK1/2 inhibitors is a recommended approach to treat melanoma, the development of drug resistance remains a barrier to achieving long-term patient benefits. Few studies have compared the global proteomic changes in BRAF/MEK1/2 inhibitor-resistant melanoma cells under different growth conditions. The current study uses high-resolution label-free mass spectrometry to compare relative protein changes in BRAF/MEK1/2 inhibitor-resistant A375 melanoma cells grown as monolayers or spheroids. While approximately 66% of proteins identified were common in the monolayer and spheroid cultures, only 6.2 or 3.6% of proteins that significantly increased or decreased, respectively, were common between the drug-resistant monolayer and spheroid cells. Drug-resistant monolayers showed upregulation of ERK-independent signaling pathways, whereas drug-resistant spheroids showed primarily elevated catabolic metabolism to support oxidative phosphorylation. These studies highlight the similarities and differences between monolayer and spheroid cell models in identifying actionable targets to overcome drug resistance.
PXD024019	35128264	Effects of the IDH1 R132H Mutation on the Energy Metabolism: A Comparison between Tissue and Corresponding Primary Glioma Cell Cultures. 	Effects of the IDH1 R132H mutation on the energy metabolism: a comparison between tissue and corresponding primary glioma cell cultures	Cell cultures, Energy metabolism, Glioma, IDH1 R132H mutation	The R132H mutation in the metabolic enzyme isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1) is the most important prognostic factor for the survival of glioma patients. Subsequent studies led to the discovery of a panel of enzymes mainly involved in glutamate anaplerosis and aerobic glycolysis that change in abundance as a result of the IDH1 mutation. To further study these changes, appropriate glioma models are required that accurately mimic in vivo metabolism. To investigate how metabolism is affected by in vitro cell culture, we here compared surgically obtained snap-frozen glioma tissues with their corresponding primary glioma cell culture models with a previously developed targeted mass spectrometry proteomic assay. We determined the relative abundance of a panel of metabolic enzymes. Results confirmed increased glutamate use and decreased aerobic glycolysis in resected IDH1 R132H glioma tissue samples. However, these metabolic profiles were not reflected in the paired glioma primary cell cultures. We suggest that culture conditions and tumor microenvironment play a crucial role in maintaining the in vivo metabolic situation in cell culture models. For this reason, new models that more closely resemble the in vivo microenvironment, such as three-dimensional cell co-cultures or organotypic multicellular spheroid models, need to be developed and investigated.
PXD026647	35129352	Unphosphorylated Form of the PAQosome Core Subunit RPAP3 Binds Ribosomal Preassembly Complexes to Modulate Ribosome Biogenesis. 	The unphosphorylated form of the PAQosome core subunit RPAP3 binds ribosomal preassembly complexes to modulate ribosome biogenesis.	AP-MS, CK2 phosphorylation, PAQosome, RPAP3, chaperone, ribosome biogenesis, ribosome preassembly factors	The PAQosome (particle for arrangement of quaternary structure) is a 12-subunit HSP90 co-chaperone involved in the biogenesis of several human protein complexes. Two mechanisms of client selection have previously been identified, namely, the selective recruitment of specific adaptors and the differential use of homologous core subunits. Here, we describe a third client selection mechanism by showing that RPAP3, one of the core PAQosome subunits, is phosphorylated at several Ser residues in HEK293 cells. Affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry (AP-MS) using the expression of tagged RPAP3 with single phospho-null mutations at Ser116, Ser119, or Ser121 reveals binding of the unphosphorylated form to several proteins involved in ribosome biogenesis. In vitro phosphorylation assays indicate that the kinase CK2 phosphorylates these RPAP3 residues. This finding is supported by data showing that pharmacological inhibition of CK2 enhances the binding of RPAP3 to ribosome preassembly factors in AP-MS experiments. Moreover, the silencing of PAQosome subunits interferes with ribosomal assembly factors' interactome. Altogether, these results indicate that RPAP3 phosphate group addition/removal at specific residues modulates binding to subunits of preribosomal complexes and allows speculating that PAQosome posttranslational modification is a mechanism of client selection.
PXD028857	35130123	Evaluating live microbiota biobanking using an ex vivo microbiome assay and metaproteomics. 	Evaluate gut microbiome biobanking	biobanking, freezing, metaproteomics, microbiome	Biobanking of live microbiota is becoming indispensable for mechanistic and clinical investigations of drug-microbiome interactions and fecal microbiota transplantation. However, there is a lack of methods to rapidly and systematically evaluate whether the biobanked microbiota maintains their cultivability and functional activity. In this study, we use a rapid ex vivo microbiome assay and metaproteomics to evaluate the cultivability and the functional responses of biobanked microbiota to treatment with a prebiotic (fructo-oligosaccharide, FOS). Our results indicate that the microbiota cultivability and their functional responses to FOS treatment were well maintained by freezing in a deoxygenated glycerol buffer at -80degreesC for 12 months. We also demonstrate that the fecal microbiota is functionally stable for 48 hours on ice in a deoxygenated glycerol buffer, allowing off-site fecal sample collection and shipping to laboratory for live microbiota biobanking. This study provides a method for rapid evaluation of the cultivability of biobanked live microbiota. Our results show minimal detrimental influences of long-term freezing in deoxygenated glycerol buffer on the cultivability of fecal microbiota.
PXD025701	35130834	Secreted protein markers in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). 	Protein markers in Oral Squamous Cell Carcinoma (OSCC)	Head and Neck carcinoma, Label-free, Oral Squamous cell Carcinoma, Secretome, biomarkers.	BACKGROUND: Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is a main cause of oral cancer mortality and morbidity in central south Asia. To improve the clinical outcome of OSCC patients, detection markers are needed, which are preferably non-invasive and thus independent of a tissue biopsy. METHODS: In the present study, we aimed to identify robust candidate protein biomarkers for non-invasive OSCC diagnosis. To this end, we measured the global protein profiles of OSCC tissue lysates to matched normal adjacent mucosa samples (n = 14) and the secretomes of nine HNSCC cell lines using LC-MS/MS-based proteomics. RESULTS: A total of 5123 tissue proteins were identified, of which 205 were robustly up- regulated (p-value < 0.01, fold change > + 2) in OSCC-tissues compared to normal adjacent tissues. The biological process "Secretion" was highly enriched in this set of proteins. Other upregulated biological pathways included "Unfolded Protein Response", "Spliceosomal complex assembly", "Protein localization to endosome" and "Interferon Gamma Response". Transcription factor analysis implicated Creb3L1, ESRRA, YY, ELF2, STAT1 and XBP as potential regulators. Of the 205 upregulated tissue proteins, 132 were identified in the cancer cell line secretomes, underscoring their potential use as non-invasive biofluid markers. To further prioritize our candidate markers for non-invasive OSCC detection, we integrated our data with public biofluid datasets including OSCC saliva, yielding 25 candidate markers for further study. CONCLUSIONS: We identified several key proteins and processes that are associated with OSCC tissues, underscoring the importance of altered secretion. Cancer-associated OSCC secretome proteins present in saliva have potential to be used as novel non-invasive biomarkers for the diagnosis of OSCC.
PXD027069	35131870	Chaperone-Mediated Autophagy Controls Proteomic and Transcriptomic Pathways to Maintain Glioma Stem Cell Activity. 	Chaperone-mediated autophagy maintains glioma stem cell activity controlling different proteomic and transcriptomic pathways	Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), LAMP2A, glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs)	Chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) is a homeostatic process essential for the lysosomal degradation of a selected subset of the proteome. CMA activity directly depends on the levels of LAMP2A, a critical receptor for CMA substrate proteins at the lysosomal membrane. In glioblastoma (GBM), the most common and aggressive brain cancer in adulthood, high levels of LAMP2A in the tumor and tumor-associated pericytes have been linked to temozolomide resistance and tumor progression. However, the role of LAMP2A, and hence CMA, in any cancer stem cell type or in glioblastoma stem cells (GSC) remains unknown. In this work, we show that LAMP2A expression is enriched in patient-derived GSCs, and its depletion diminishes GSC-mediated tumorigenic activities. Conversely, overexpression of LAMP2A facilitates the acquisition of GSC properties. Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of LAMP2A-depleted GSCs revealed reduced extracellular matrix interaction effectors in both analyses. Moreover, pathways related to mitochondrial metabolism and the immune system were differentially deregulated at the proteome level. Furthermore, clinical samples of GBM tissue presented overexpression of LAMP2, which correlated with advanced glioma grade and poor overall survival. In conclusion, we identified a novel role of CMA in directly regulating GSCs activity via multiple pathways at the proteome and transcriptome levels. SIGNIFICANCE: A receptor of chaperone-mediated autophagy regulates glioblastoma stem cells and may serve as a potential biomarker for advanced tumor grade and poor survival in this disease.
PXD026079	35131898	Differential interferon-alpha subtype induced immune signatures are associated with suppression of SARS-CoV-2 infection. 	Differential interferon-alpha subtype immune signatures suppress SARS-CoV-2 infection	COVID-19, Covid-19, IFNalpha subtypes, ISG, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, Type I IFN, antiviral treatment, therapy	Type I interferons (IFN-I) exert pleiotropic biological effects during viral infections, balancing virus control versus immune-mediated pathologies, and have been successfully employed for the treatment of viral diseases. Humans express 12 IFN-alpha (alpha) subtypes, which activate downstream signaling cascades and result in distinct patterns of immune responses and differential antiviral responses. Inborn errors in IFN-I immunity and the presence of anti-IFN autoantibodies account for very severe courses of COVID-19; therefore, early administration of IFN-I may be protective against life-threatening disease. Here we comprehensively analyzed the antiviral activity of all IFNalpha subtypes against severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) to identify the underlying immune signatures and explore their therapeutic potential. Prophylaxis of primary human airway epithelial cells (hAEC) with different IFNalpha subtypes during SARS-CoV-2 infection uncovered distinct functional classes with high, intermediate, and low antiviral IFNs. In particular, IFNalpha5 showed superior antiviral activity against SARS-CoV-2 infection in vitro and in SARS-CoV-2-infected mice in vivo. Dose dependency studies further displayed additive effects upon coadministration with the broad antiviral drug remdesivir in cell culture. Transcriptomic analysis of IFN-treated hAEC revealed different transcriptional signatures, uncovering distinct, intersecting, and prototypical genes of individual IFNalpha subtypes. Global proteomic analyses systematically assessed the abundance of specific antiviral key effector molecules which are involved in IFN-I signaling pathways, negative regulation of viral processes, and immune effector processes for the potent antiviral IFNalpha5. Taken together, our data provide a systemic, multimodular definition of antiviral host responses mediated by defined IFN-I. This knowledge will support the development of novel therapeutic approaches against SARS-CoV-2.
PXD026083	35132656	A neuropathy-associated kinesin KIF1A mutation hyper-stabilizes the motor-neck interaction during the ATPase cycle. 	KIF1A Motor-Neck domain interaction	TMT, kinesin, paint mass	The mechanochemical coupling of ATPase hydrolysis and conformational dynamics in kinesin motors facilitates intramolecular interaction cycles between the kinesin motor and neck domains, which are essential for microtubule-based motility. Here, we characterized a charge-inverting KIF1A-E239K mutant that we identified in a family with axonal-type Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease and also in 24 cases in human neuropathies including spastic paraplegia and hereditary sensory and autonomic neuropathy. We show that Glu239 in the beta7 strand is a key residue of the motor domain that regulates the motor-neck interaction. Expression of the KIF1A-E239K mutation has decreased ability to complement Kif1a(+/-) neurons, and significantly decreases ATPase activity and microtubule gliding velocity. X-ray crystallography shows that this mutation causes an excess positive charge on beta7, which may electrostatically interact with a negative charge on the neck. Quantitative mass spectrometric analysis supports that the mutation hyper-stabilizes the motor-neck interaction at the late ATP hydrolysis stage. Thus, the negative charge of Glu239 dynamically regulates the kinesin motor-neck interaction, promoting release of the neck from the motor domain upon ATP hydrolysis.
PXD023499	35133188	Proteomic and Phosphoryproteomic Investigations Reveal that Autophagy-Related Protein 1, a Protein Kinase for Autophagy Initiation, Synchronously Deploys Phosphoregulation on the Ubiquitin-Like Conjugation System in the Mycopathogen Beauveria bassiana. 	ATG1-mediated phosphoproteome and proteome in Beauveria bassiana	ATG1 kinase, Beauveria bassiana	Autophagy is a conserved intracellular degradation mechanism in eukaryotes and is initiated by the protein kinase autophagy-related protein 1 (Atg1). However, except for the autophosphorylation activity of Atg1, the target proteins phosphorylated by Atg1 are largely unknown in filamentous fungi. In Beauveria bassiana (a filamentous insect-pathogenic fungus), Atg1 is indispensable for autophagy and is associated with fungal development. Comparative omics-based analyses revealed that B. bassiana Atg1 (BbAtg1) has key influence on the proteome and phosphoproteome during conidiogenesis. In terms of its physiological functions, the BbAtg1-mediated phosphoproteome is primarily associated with metabolism, signal transduction, cell cycle, and autophagy. At the proteomic level, BbAtg1 mainly regulates genes involved in protein synthesis, protein fate, and protein with binding function. Furthermore, integrative analyses of phosphoproteomic and proteomic data led to the identification of several potential targets regulated by BbAtg1 phosphorylation activity. Notably, we demonstrated that BbAtg1 phosphorylated BbAtg3, an essential component of the ubiquitin-like conjugation system in autophagic progress. Our findings indicate that in addition to being a critical component of the autophagy initiation, Atg1 orchestrates autophagosome elongation via its phosphorylation activity. The data from our study will facilitate future studies on the noncanonical targets of Atg1 and help decipher the Atg1-mediated phosphorylation networks. IMPORTANCE Autophagy-related protein 1 (Atg1) is a serine/threonine protein kinase for autophagy initiation. In contrast to the unicellular yeast, the target proteins phosphorylated by Atg1 are largely unknown in filamentous fungi. In this study, the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana was used as a representative of filamentous fungi due to its importance in the applied and fundamental research. We revealed that Atg1 mediates the comprehensive proteome and phosphoproteome, which differ from those revealed in yeast. Further investigation revealed that Atg1 directly phosphorylates the E2-like enzyme Atg3 of the ubiquitin-like conjugation system (ULCS), and the phosphorylation of Atg3 is indispensable for ULCS functionality. Interestingly, the phosphorylation site of Atg3 is conserved among a set of insect- and plant-pathogenic fungi but not in human-pathogenic fungi. This study reveals new regulatory mechanisms of autophagy and provides new insights into the evolutionary diversity of the Atg1 kinase signaling pathways among different pathogenic fungi.
PXD031432	35133987	Regional variability and genotypic and pharmacodynamic effects on PrP concentration in the CNS. 	PrP concentration in the central nervous system: regional variability, genotypic effects, and pharmacodynamic impact	LC-MRM-MS, Skyline, TSQ Quantiva, antisense oligonucleotide, cerebrospinal fluid, prion protein	Prion protein (PrP) concentration controls the kinetics of prion replication and is a genetically and pharmacologically validated therapeutic target for prion disease. In order to evaluate PrP concentration as a pharmacodynamic biomarker and assess its contribution to known prion disease risk factors, we developed and validated a plate-based immunoassay reactive for PrP across 6 species of interest and applicable to brain and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). PrP concentration varied dramatically across different brain regions in mice, cynomolgus macaques, and humans. PrP expression did not appear to contribute to the known risk factors of age, sex, or common PRNP genetic variants. CSF PrP was lowered in the presence of rare pathogenic PRNP variants, with heterozygous carriers of P102L displaying 55%, and D178N just 31%, of the CSF PrP concentration of mutation-negative controls. In rodents, pharmacologic reduction of brain Prnp RNA was reflected in brain parenchyma PrP and, in turn in CSF PrP, validating CSF as a sampling compartment for the effect of PrP-lowering therapy. Our findings support the use of CSF PrP as a pharmacodynamic biomarker for PrP-lowering drugs and suggest that relative reduction from individual baseline CSF PrP concentration may be an appropriate marker for target engagement.
PXD027624	35134296	Utilization of Fast Photochemical Oxidation of Proteins and Both Bottom-up and Top-down Mass Spectrometry for Structural Characterization of a Transcription Factor-dsDNA Complex. 	Structural aspects of FOXO4 binding to DAF16 investigated with FPOP using both bottom-up and top-down MS.	DNA, FOXO4, Fast photochemical oxidation of proteins, Protein, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, bottom-up proteomics, top-dow proteomics, transcription factors	A combination of covalent labeling techniques and mass spectrometry (MS) is currently a progressive approach for deriving insights related to the mapping of protein surfaces or protein-ligand interactions. In this study, we mapped an interaction interface between the DNA binding domain (DBD) of FOXO4 protein and the DNA binding element (DAF16) using fast photochemical oxidation of proteins (FPOP). Residues involved in protein-DNA interaction were identified using the bottom-up approach. To confirm the findings and avoid a misinterpretation of the obtained data, caused by possible multiple radical oxidations leading to the protein surface alteration and oxidation of deeply buried amino acid residues, a top-down approach was employed for the first time in FPOP analysis. An isolation of singly oxidized ions enabled their gas-phase separation from multiply oxidized species followed by CID and ECD fragmentation. Application of both fragmentation techniques allowed generation of complementary fragment sets, out of which the regions shielded in the presence of DNA were deduced. The findings obtained by bottom-up and top-down approaches were highly consistent. Finally, FPOP results were compared with those of the HDX study of the FOXO4-DBD.DAF16 complex. No contradictions were found between the methods. Moreover, their combination provides complementary information related to the structure and dynamics of the protein-DNA complex. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD027624.
PXD030856	35134996	Identification of New ATG8s-Binding Proteins with Canonical LC3-Interacting Region in Autophagosomes of Barley Callus. 	Identification of New ATG8s-binding Proteins with Canonical LC3-interacting Region in Autophagosomes of Barley Callus	ATG8, Autophagy, LIR, barley, callus, interactor	Autophagy is essential to maintain cellular homeostasis for normal cell growth and development. In selective autophagy, ATG8 plays a crucial role in cargo target recognition by binding to various adaptors and receptors with the ATG8-interacting motif, also known as the LC3-interacting region (LIR). However, the process of autophagy in the callus, as a proliferating cell type, is largely unknown. In this study, we overexpressed green fluorescent protein (GFP)-ATG8a and GFP-ATG8b transgenic barley callus and checked their autophagic activities. We identified five new ATG8 candidate interactors containing the canonical LIR motif by using immunoprecipitation coupled with mass spectrometry: RPP3, COPE, NCLN, RAE1, and CTSL. The binding activities between these candidate interactors and ATG8 were further demonstrated in the punctate structure. Notably, RPP3 was colocalized in ATG8-labeled autophagosomes under tunicamycin-induced ER stress. GST pull-down assays showed that the interaction between RPP3 and ATG8 could be prevented by mutating the LIRs region of RPP3 or the LIR docking site (LDS) of ATG8, suggesting that RPP3 directly interacted with ATG8 in an LIR-dependent manner via the LDS. Our findings would provide the basis for further investigations on novel receptors and functions of autophagy in plants, especially in the physiological state of cell de-differentiation.
PXD030730	35135884	A VDAC1-mediated NEET protein chain transfers [2Fe-2S] clusters between the mitochondria and the cytosol and impacts mitochondrial dynamics. 	breast cancer mitochondria pulldown	cancer, mitochondria, pull-down	Mitochondrial inner NEET (MiNT) and the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) mitoNEET (mNT) proteins belong to the NEET protein family. This family plays a key role in mitochondrial labile iron and reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis. NEET proteins contain labile [2Fe-2S] clusters which can be transferred to apo-acceptor proteins. In eukaryotes, the biogenesis of [2Fe-2S] clusters occurs within the mitochondria by the iron-sulfur cluster (ISC) system; the clusters are then transferred to [2Fe-2S] proteins within the mitochondria or exported to cytosolic proteins and the cytosolic iron-sulfur cluster assembly (CIA) system. The last step of export of the [2Fe-2S] is not yet fully characterized. Here we show that MiNT interacts with voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1), a major OMM protein that connects the intermembrane space with the cytosol and participates in regulating the levels of different ions including mitochondrial labile iron (mLI). We further show that VDAC1 is mediating the interaction between MiNT and mNT, in which MiNT transfers its [2Fe-2S] clusters from inside the mitochondria to mNT that is facing the cytosol. This MiNT-VDAC1-mNT interaction is shown both experimentally and by computational calculations. Additionally, we show that modifying MiNT expression in breast cancer cells affects the dynamics of mitochondrial structure and morphology, mitochondrial function, and breast cancer tumor growth. Our findings reveal a pathway for the transfer of [2Fe-2S] clusters, which are assembled inside the mitochondria, to the cytosol.
PXD023118	35136014	Stat4 rs7574865 polymorphism promotes the occurrence and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma via the Stat4/CYP2E1/FGL2 pathway. 	Human normal and peritumor liver tissues LC-MSMS	HCC, Liver	Although there are many studies on the relationship between genetic polymorphisms and the incidence of diseases, mechanisms are rarely known. We report the mechanism by which signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 (stat4) rs7574865 promotes the occurrence and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We found that the GG genotype at stat4 rs7574865 was a risk genotype, and STAT4 levels in serum and peritumoral tissue from HCC patients with the GG genotype were significantly higher than those found in TT or TG carriers. Furthermore, HCC patients with the GG genotype or elevated STAT4 levels had poor prognoses. In vitro experiments demonstrated that STAT4 silencing promoted apoptosis and inhibited the invasion and migration of HepG2 and L02 cells. Proteomic analysis of HCC peritumors identified 273 proteins related to STAT4, of which CYP2E1 activity and FGL2 content exhibited the highest positive correlation. The relationship between CYP2E1 and FGL2 was also confirmed in cyp2e1(-/-) mice and in CYP2E1 inhibitor-treated mice. In conclusion, this study elucidates the mechanism by which the stat4 rs7574865 polymorphism promotes the occurrence and progression of HCC via the Stat4/CYP2E1/FGL2 pathway.
PXD028269	35137163	The transcriptional elongation factor CTR9 demarcates PRC2-mediated H3K27me3 domains by altering PRC2 subtype equilibrium. 	Chemical derivatization of histones for LC-MS/MS analysis	Histone, dimethyl labeling, histione methylation, propionylation	CTR9 is the scaffold subunit in polymerase-associated factor complex (PAFc), a multifunctional complex employed in multiple steps of RNA Polymerase II (RNAPII)-mediated transcription. CTR9/PAFc is well known as an evolutionarily conserved elongation factor that regulates gene activation via coupling with histone modifications enzymes. However, little is known about its function to restrain repressive histone markers. Using inducible and stable CTR9 knockdown breast cancer cell lines, we discovered that the H3K27me3 levels are strictly controlled by CTR9. Quantitative profiling of histone modifications revealed a striking increase of H3K27me3 levels upon loss of CTR9. Moreover, loss of CTR9 leads to genome-wide expansion of H3K27me3, as well as increased recruitment of PRC2 on chromatin, which can be reversed by CTR9 restoration. Further, CTR9 depletion triggers a PRC2 subtype switch from the less active PRC2.2, to the more active PRC2.1 with higher methyltransferase activity. As a consequence, CTR9 depletion generates vulnerability that renders breast cancer cells hypersensitive to PRC2 inhibitors. Our findings that CTR9 demarcates PRC2-mediated H3K27me3 levels and genomic distribution provide a unique mechanism that explains the transition from transcriptionally active chromatin states to repressive chromatin states and sheds light on the biological functions of CTR9 in development and cancer.
PXD024195	35137243	Complementary proteome and glycoproteome access revealed through comparative analysis of reversed phase and porous graphitic carbon chromatography. 	Complementary Proteome and Glycoproteome Access Revealed Through Comparative Analysis of Reversed Phase and Porous Graphitic Carbon Chromatography	Glycoproteomics, glycopeptides	Continual developments in instrumental and analytical techniques have aided in establishing rigorous connections between protein glycosylation and human illness. These illnesses, such as various forms of cancer, are often associated with poor prognoses, prompting the need for more comprehensive characterization of the glycoproteome. While innovative instrumental and computational strategies have largely benefited glycoproteomic analyses, less attention is given to benefits gained through alternative, optimized chromatographic techniques. Porous graphitic carbon (PGC) chromatography has gained considerable interest in glycomics research due to its mobile phase flexibility, increased retention of polar analytes, and improved structural elucidation at higher temperatures. PGC has yet to be systematically compared against or in tandem with standard reversed phase liquid chromatography (RPLC) in high-throughput bottom-up glycoproteomic experiments, leaving the potential benefits unexplored. Performing comparative analysis of single and biphasic separation regimes at a range of column temperatures illustrates complementary advantages for each method. PGC separation is shown to selectively retain shorter, more hydrophilic glycopeptide species, imparting higher average charge, and exhibiting greater microheterogeneity coverage for identified glycosites. Additionally, we demonstrate that liquid-phase separation of glycopeptide isomers may be achieved through both single and biphasic PGC separations, providing a means towards facile, multidimensional glycopeptide characterization. Beyond this, we demonstrate how utilization of multiple separation regimes and column temperatures can aid in profiling the glycoproteome in tumorigenic and aggressive prostate cancer cells. RAW MS proteomic and glycoproteomic datasets have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD024196 (10.6019/PXD024196) and PXD024195, respectively.
PXD028347	35138170	Inactivation of the Response Regulator AgrA Has a Pleiotropic Effect on Biofilm Formation, Pathogenesis and Stress Response in Staphylococcus lugdunensis. 	Inactivation of the response regulator AgrA has a pleiotropic effect on biofilm formation, pathogenesis and stress response in Staphylococcus lugdunensis	AgrA, Staphylococcus lugdunensis, agr system, transcriptional regulation	Staphylococcus lugdunensis is a coagulase-negative Staphylococcus that emerges as an important opportunistic pathogen. However, little is known about the regulation underlying the transition from commensal to virulent state. Based on knowledge of S. aureus virulence, we suspected that the agr quorum sensing system may be an important determinant for the pathogenicity of S. lugdunensis. We investigated the functions of the transcriptional regulator AgrA using the agrA deletion mutant. AgrA played a role in cell pigmentation: DeltaargA mutant colonies were white while the parental strains were slightly yellow. Compared with the wild-type strain, the DeltaargA mutant was affected in its ability to form biofilm and was less able to survive in mice macrophages. Moreover, the growth of DeltaagrA was significantly reduced by the addition of 10% NaCl or 0.4 mM H2O2 and its survival after 2 h in the presence of 1 mM H2O2 was more than 10-fold reduced. To explore the mechanisms involved beyond these phenotypes, the DeltaagrA proteome and transcriptome were characterized by mass spectrometry and RNA-Seq. We found that AgrA controlled several virulence factors as well as stress-response factors, which are well correlated with the reduced resistance of the DeltaagrA mutant to osmotic and oxidative stresses. These results were not the consequence of the deregulation of RNAIII of the agr system, since no phenotype or alteration of the proteomic profile has been observed for the DeltaRNAIII mutant. Altogether, our results highlighted that the AgrA regulator of S. lugdunensis played a key role in its ability to become pathogenic. IMPORTANCE Although belonging to the natural human skin flora, Staphylococcus lugdunensis is recognized as a particularly aggressive and destructive pathogen. This study aimed to characterize the role of the response regulator AgrA, which is a component of the quorum-sensing agr system and known to be a major element in the regulation of pathogenicity and biofilm formation in Staphylococcus aureus. In the present study, we showed that, contrary to S. aureus, the agrA deletion mutant produced less biofilm. Inactivation of agrA conferred a white colony phenotype and impacted S. lugdunensis in its ability to survive in mice macrophages and to cope with osmotic and oxidative stresses. By global proteomic and transcriptomic approaches, we identified the AgrA regulon, bringing molecular bases underlying the observed phenotypes. Together, our data showed the importance of AgrA in the opportunistic pathogenic behavior of S. lugdunensis allowing it to be considered as an interesting therapeutic target.
PXD009309	35138344	A Pilot Application of an iTRAQ-Based Proteomics Screen Estimates the Effects of Cigarette Smokers' Serum on RPE Cells With AMD High-Risk Alleles. 	Human RPE LC-MSMS             .	RPE, retinal	PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to explore whether there are interactions between genetic (ARMS2/HTRA1) and environmental factors (cigarette smoking) in the pathogenesis of age-related macular degeneration (AMD). METHODS: Primary human retinal pigment epithelial (hRPE) cells were obtained from four donors' eyes with AMD high-risk ARMS2/HTRA1 alleles, and two donors' eyes with wild-type alleles were used as controls. The pooled serum from 32 smokers and 35 nonsmokers were collected and used separately to treat hRPE cells. The isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based proteomics was used to identify associated proteins and comparing the differences between AMD high-risk and low-risk HTRA1/ARMS2 alleles after exposure to smokers' serum. RESULTS: After stimulation with the smokers' serum, 400 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were detected in the high-risk allele cells. Several DEPs are involved in neuronal protein degeneration and oxidative stress pathways. The smokers' serum stimulation or HTRA1 overexpression can both upregulate caveolin-1, which was one of the DEPs. Besides, the smokers' serum enhanced the phagocytosis of cultured human RPE cells. CONCLUSIONS: The study confirmed the AMD high-risk alleles, HTRA1, and cigarette smoking can promote AMD development by regulating caveolin-1 expression. TRANSLATIONAL RELEVANCE: AMD high-risk alleles and environmental risk factors can promote the occurrence and development of AMD by regulating caveolin-1 expression, upregulation of which will induce apoptotic cell death in response to cellular stress in early AMD conditions.
PXD018129	35138895	Changes in supramolecular organization of cyanobacterial thylakoid membrane complexes in response to far-red light photoacclimation. 	NanoLC-MS/MS DDA Chroococcidiopsis thermalis PCC 7203 thylkoids WL vs. FRL	Chroococcidiopsis thermalis, photosystem, phycobilisome, thylkoid	Cyanobacteria are ubiquitous in nature and have developed numerous strategies that allow them to live in a diverse range of environments. Certain cyanobacteria synthesize chlorophylls d and f to acclimate to niches enriched in far-red light (FRL) and incorporate paralogous photosynthetic proteins into their photosynthetic apparatus in a process called FRL-induced photoacclimation (FaRLiP). We characterized the macromolecular changes involved in FRL-driven photosynthesis and used atomic force microscopy to examine the supramolecular organization of photosystem I associated with FaRLiP in three cyanobacterial species. Mass spectrometry showed the changes in the proteome of Chroococcidiopsis thermalis PCC 7203 that accompany FaRLiP. Fluorescence lifetime imaging microscopy and electron microscopy reveal an altered cellular distribution of photosystem complexes and illustrate the cell-to-cell variability of the FaRLiP response.
PXD027228	35139387	Characterization of a small molecule inhibitor of disulfide reductases that induces oxidative stress and lethality in lung cancer cells. 	A novel small molecule that induces cytotoxicity in lung cancer cells inhibits disulfide reductases GSR and TXNRD1	LCS3-sensitive LUAD cells, lung cancer, thermal proteome profiling	Phenotype-based screening can identify small molecules that elicit a desired cellular response, but additional approaches are required to characterize their targets and mechanisms of action. Here, we show that a compound termed LCS3, which selectively impairs the growth of human lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) cells, induces oxidative stress. To identify the target that mediates this effect, we use thermal proteome profiling (TPP) and uncover the disulfide reductases GSR and TXNRD1 as targets. We confirm through enzymatic assays that LCS3 inhibits disulfide reductase activity through a reversible, uncompetitive mechanism. Further, we demonstrate that LCS3-sensitive LUAD cells are sensitive to the synergistic inhibition of glutathione and thioredoxin pathways. Lastly, a genome-wide CRISPR knockout screen identifies NQO1 loss as a mechanism of LCS3 resistance. This work highlights the ability of TPP to uncover targets of small molecules identified by high-throughput screens and demonstrates the potential therapeutic utility of inhibiting disulfide reductases in LUAD.
PXD028057	35140477	Preliminary Investigation of Iron Acquisition in Hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae Mediated by Outer Membrane Vesicles. 	Preliminary investigation of iron acquisition mechanism in hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae mediated by outer membrane vesicles	Hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae, Outer membrane vesicles, Proteomics analysis	OBJECTIVE: To investigate the role of outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) and related proteins in iron acquisition of hypervirulent Klebsiella pneumoniae (HVKP) and classic Klebsiella pneumoniae (cKP). METHODS: The OMVs of HVKP and cKP under iron-deficient and iron-sufficient media were extracted and purified by ultracentrifugation. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was used to identify OMVs. The quantitative proteomics were performed based on mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Four OMVs samples secreted by HVKP and cKP under iron-deficient and iron-sufficient environment were isolated and collected (HVKP OMVs under iron-deficient environment (A1), HVKP OMVs under iron-sufficient environment (A2), cKP OMVs under iron-deficient environment (B1), cKP OMVs under iron-sufficient environment (B2)). The amount of OMVs released by HVKP in iron-deficient medium was significantly larger than that in iron-sufficient medium (P < 0.05). HVKP secreted more OMVs than cKP in iron-deficient medium (P < 0.05). A total of 1074 kinds of proteins were identified in four samples. A comparison between the iron-deficient vs iron-sufficient environment showed that 61 proteins in HVKP OMVs were identified with a significant change in abundance under iron-deficient environment. Among them, 17 proteins were related to iron acquisition and transportation systems. While in cKP OMVs, 62 proteins significantly changed under iron-deficient environment in which 5 proteins were related to iron acquisition and transportation systems. Upon comparison of the HVKP vs cKP OMVs under iron deficiency, 81 proteins were detected with a significant change in which 8 proteins were related to iron acquisition and transportation systems. CONCLUSION: Above all, the results of this study suggest a potential role for OMVs in iron acquisition of HVKP and provide evidence of potential connections between OMVs and strong iron-acquisition ability of HVKP during iron limitation.
PXD029439	35141172	Antigen Discovery in Circulating Extracellular Vesicles From Plasmodium vivax Patients. 	Antigen discovery in circulating extracellular vesicles from Plasmodium vivax patients	Plasmodium Vivax. extracellular vesicles	Plasmodium vivax is the most widely distributed human malaria parasite with 7 million annual clinical cases and 2.5 billion people living under risk of infection. There is an urgent need to discover new antigens for vaccination as only two vaccine candidates are currently in clinical trials. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are small membrane-bound vesicles involved in intercellular communication and initially described in reticulocytes, the host cell of P. vivax, as a selective disposal mechanism of the transferrin receptor (CD71) in the maturation of reticulocytes to erythrocytes. We have recently reported the proteomics identification of P. vivax proteins associated to circulating EVs in P. vivax patients using size exclusion chromatography followed by mass spectrometry (MS). Parasite proteins were detected in only two out of ten patients. To increase the MS signal, we have implemented the direct immuno-affinity capture (DIC) technique to enrich in EVs derived from CD71-expressing cells. Remarkably, we identified parasite proteins in all patients totaling 48 proteins and including several previously identified P. vivax vaccine candidate antigens (MSP1, MSP3, MSP7, MSP9, Serine-repeat antigen 1, and HSP70) as well as membrane, cytosolic and exported proteins. Notably, a member of the Plasmodium helical interspersed sub-telomeric (PHIST-c) family and a member of the Plasmodium exported proteins, were detected in five out of six analyzed patients. Humoral immune response analysis using sera from vivax patients confirmed the antigenicity of the PHIST-c protein. Collectively, we showed that enrichment of EVs by CD71-DIC from plasma of patients, allows a robust identification of P. vivax immunogenic proteins. This study represents a significant advance in identifying new antigens for vaccination against this human malaria parasite.
PXD024410	35141563	A protocol for investigating lipidomic dysregulation and discovering lipid biomarkers from human serums. 	Distinct Molecular Signature of Asymptomatic COVID-19 Revealed by Lipidomic Characterization	Asymptomatic, COVID-19, Lipidomics	Lipids play important roles in various human diseases. Disease-associated lipid dysregulation and biomarkers could provide molecular clues for diagnosis, pathogenesis, and therapy. This protocol provides a step-by-step workflow to investigate lipid dysregulation and discover biomarkers in human serum samples by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS)-based lipidomics and machine learning analysis. The workflow includes project design, serum collection, sample preparation, data acquisition, data processing, and machine learning analysis. For complete details on the use and execution of this profile, please refer to Hao et al. (2021).
PXD029359	35142030	Neurodegeneration and astrogliosis in the entorhinal cortex in Alzheimer's disease: Stereological layer-specific assessment and proteomic analysis. 	Proteomic analyses of human entorhinal cortex in Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimer, entorhinal	INTRODUCTION: The entorhinal cortex is among the earliest areas involved in Alzheimer's disease. Volume reduction and neural loss in this area have been widely reported. Human entorhinal cortex atrophy is, in part, due to neural loss, but microglial and/or astroglial involvement in the different layers remains unclear. Additionally, -omic approaches in the human entorhinal cortex are scarce. METHODS: Herein, stereological layer-specific and proteomic analyses were carried out in the human brain. RESULTS: Neurodegeneration, microglial reduction, and astrogliosis have been demonstrated, and proteomic data have revealed relationships with up- (S100A6, PPP1R1B, BAG3, and PRDX6) and downregulated (GSK3B, SYN1, DLG4, and RAB3A) proteins. Namely, clusters of these proteins were related to synaptic, neuroinflammatory, and oxidative stress processes. DISCUSSION: Differential layer involvement among neural and glial populations determined by proteinopathies and identified proteins related to neurodegeneration and astrogliosis could explain how the cortical circuitry facilitates pathological spreading within the medial temporal lobe.
PXD029437	35143212	Longitudinal Plasma Proteomics Analysis Reveals Novel Candidate Biomarkers in Acute COVID-19. 	Longitudinal Plasma Proteomics Analysis of Acute COVID-19	ACEi, ARB, COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, amyloid, complement, longitudinal analysis, targeted quantitative proteomics	The host response to COVID-19 pathophysiology over the first few days of infection remains largely unclear, especially the mechanisms in the blood compartment. We report on a longitudinal proteomic analysis of acute-phase COVID-19 patients, for which we used blood plasma, multiple reaction monitoring with internal standards, and data-independent acquisition. We measured samples on admission for 49 patients, of which 21 had additional samples on days 2, 4, 7, and 14 after admission. We also measured 30 externally obtained samples from healthy individuals for comparison at baseline. The 31 proteins differentiated in abundance between acute COVID-19 patients and healthy controls belonged to acute inflammatory response, complement activation, regulation of inflammatory response, and regulation of protein activation cascade. The longitudinal analysis showed distinct profiles revealing increased levels of multiple lipid-associated functions, a rapid decrease followed by recovery for complement activation, humoral immune response, and acute inflammatory response-related proteins, and level fluctuation in the regulation of smooth muscle cell proliferation, secretory mechanisms, and platelet degranulation. Three proteins were differentiated between survivors and nonsurvivors. Finally, increased levels of fructose-bisphosphate aldolase B were determined in patients with exposure to angiotensin receptor blockers versus decreased levels in those exposed to angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. Data are available via ProteomeXchange PXD029437.
PXD024328	35145090	Cotranslational N-degron masking by acetylation promotes proteome stability in plants. 	Quantification of the translatome in wild type Arabidopsis and amiNAA10 plants	N-acetyltransferase A, N-terminal protein acetylation, co-translational protein modification, translation	N-terminal protein acetylation (NTA) is a prevalent protein modification essential for viability in animals and plants. The dominant executor of NTA is the ribosome tethered N(alpha)-acetyltransferase A (NatA) complex. However, the impact of NatA on protein fate is still enigmatic. Here, we demonstrate that depletion of NatA activity leads to a 4-fold increase in global protein turnover via the ubiquitin-proteasome system in Arabidopsis. Surprisingly, a concomitant increase in translation, actioned via enhanced Target-of-Rapamycin activity, is also observed, implying that defective NTA triggers feedback mechanisms to maintain steady-state protein abundance. Quantitative analysis of the proteome, the translatome, and the ubiquitome reveals that NatA substrates account for the bulk of this enhanced turnover. A targeted analysis of NatA substrate stability uncovers that NTA absence triggers protein destabilization via a previously undescribed and widely conserved nonAc/N-degron in plants. Hence, the imprinting of the proteome with acetylation marks is essential for coordinating proteome stability.
PXD030452	35145304	CRISPR and biochemical screens identify MAZ as a cofactor in CTCF-mediated insulation at Hox clusters. 	CTCF ChIP-MS from native chromatin in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) and motor neurons (MNs)	CTCF ChIP-MS, CTCF partners, native chromatin	CCCTC-binding factor (CTCF) is critical to three-dimensional genome organization. Upon differentiation, CTCF insulates active and repressed genes within Hox gene clusters. We conducted a genome-wide CRISPR knockout (KO) screen to identify genes required for CTCF-boundary activity at the HoxA cluster, complemented by biochemical approaches. Among the candidates, we identified Myc-associated zinc-finger protein (MAZ) as a cofactor in CTCF insulation. MAZ colocalizes with CTCF at chromatin borders and, similar to CTCF, interacts with the cohesin subunit RAD21. MAZ KO disrupts gene expression and local contacts within topologically associating domains. Similar to CTCF motif deletions, MAZ motif deletions lead to derepression of posterior Hox genes immediately after CTCF boundaries upon differentiation, giving rise to homeotic transformations in mouse. Thus, MAZ is a factor contributing to appropriate insulation, gene expression and genomic architecture during development.
PXD028604	35145494	Secreted Toxins From Staphylococcus aureus Strains Isolated From Keratinocyte Skin Cancers Mediate Pro-tumorigenic Inflammatory Responses in the Skin. 	Shotgun proteomics on sterile culture supernatant from S. aureus clinical isolates	S. aureus, culture supernatant, secretome, shotgun proteomics	Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) is a common type of skin cancer that typically arises from premalignant precursor lesions named actinic keratoses (AK). Chronic inflammation is a well-known promoter of skin cancer progression. AK and SCC have been associated with an overabundance of the bacterium Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus). Certain secreted products from S. aureus are known to promote cutaneous pro-inflammatory responses; however, not all S. aureus strains produce these. As inflammation plays a key role in SCC development, we investigated the pro-inflammatory potential and toxin secretion profiles of skin-cancer associated S. aureus. Sterile culture supernatants ("secretomes") of S. aureus clinical strains isolated from AK and SCC were applied to human keratinocytes in vitro. Some S. aureus secretomes induced keratinocytes to overexpress inflammatory mediators that have been linked to skin carcinogenesis, including IL-6, IL-8, and TNFalpha. A large phenotypic variation between the tested clinical strains was observed. Strains that are highly pro-inflammatory in vitro also caused more pronounced skin inflammation in mice. Proteomic characterization of S. aureus secretomes using mass spectrometry established that specific S. aureus enzymes and cytolytic toxins, including hemolysins, phenol-soluble modulins, and serine proteases, as well as currently uncharacterized proteins, correlate with the pro-inflammatory S. aureus phenotype. This study is the first to describe the toxin secretion profiles of AK and SCC-associated S. aureus, and their potential to induce a pro-inflammatory environment in the skin. Further studies are needed to establish whether these S. aureus products promote SCC development by mediating chronic inflammation.
PXD024498	35145928	Comparative Study of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens X030 on the Intestinal Flora and Antibacterial Activity Against Aeromonas of Grass Carp. 	Bacillus amyloliquefaciens X030 LC-MSMS	Bacillus amyloliquefaciens X030, mannitol, sucrose	Beneficial microorganisms to control bacterial diseases has been widely used in aquaculture, Bacillus amyloliquefaciens (BaX030) as a probiotic feed additive was a commonly biological control method. Added sucrose promoted the growth of BaX030, and the yield of its antibacterial substance macrolactin A was enhanced by 1.46-fold. A total of 2055 proteins were screened through proteomics, with 143 upregulated and 307 downregulated. Differential protein expression analysis and qRT-PCR verification showed that the pentose phosphate pathway and the fatty acid synthesis pathway were upregulated, thereby providing sufficient energy and precursors for the synthesis of macrolactin A. The influence of some potential regulatory factors (SecG, LiaI, MecG and ComG) on macrolactin A was discovered. After grass carp were fed with BaX030, the abundance of probiotics (Fusobacterium, Proteobacteria, Gemmobacter) were higher than the control group, and the abundance of potential pathogenic bacteria (Planctomycetes, Aeromonas) were significantly lower than the control group. The cell and challenge experiments showed that BaX030 can significantly increase the expression of C3 and IL8 in the liver and kidney, which decreases the risk of immune organ disease. Moreover, BaX030 effectively reduced the mortality of grass carp. The results revealed that BaX030 can significantly improve the structure of the intestinal flora, enhance immunity and it is beneficial to the control of grass carp Aeromonas.
PXD029861	35147173	Deleterious variants in CRLS1 lead to cardiolipin deficiency and cause an autosomal recessive multi-system mitochondrial disease. 	Characterisation of a novel CRLS1 variant in multi-system mitochondrial disease pathogenesis identifies mitochondrial and endoplasmic reticular stress responses to cardiolipin dysfunction	DIA, fibroblast, mitochondria, mitochondrial disease	Mitochondrial diseases are a group of inherited diseases with highly varied and complex clinical presentations. Here, we report four individuals, including two siblings, affected by a progressive mitochondrial encephalopathy with biallelic variants in the cardiolipin biosynthesis gene CRLS1. Three affected individuals had a similar infantile presentation comprising progressive encephalopathy, bull's eye maculopathy, auditory neuropathy, diabetes insipidus, autonomic instability, cardiac defects and early death. The fourth affected individual presented with chronic encephalopathy with neurodevelopmental regression, congenital nystagmus with decreased vision, sensorineural hearing loss, failure to thrive and acquired microcephaly. Using patient-derived fibroblasts, we characterized cardiolipin synthase 1 (CRLS1) dysfunction that impaired mitochondrial morphology and biogenesis, providing functional evidence that the CRLS1 variants cause mitochondrial disease. Lipid profiling in fibroblasts from two patients further confirmed the functional defect demonstrating reduced cardiolipin levels, altered acyl-chain composition and significantly increased levels of phosphatidylglycerol, the substrate of CRLS1. Proteomic profiling of patient cells and mouse Crls1 knockout cell lines identified both endoplasmic reticular and mitochondrial stress responses, and key features that distinguish between varying degrees of cardiolipin insufficiency. These findings support that deleterious variants in CRLS1 cause an autosomal recessive mitochondrial disease, presenting as a severe encephalopathy with multi-systemic involvement. Furthermore, we identify key signatures in cardiolipin and proteome profiles across various degrees of cardiolipin loss, facilitating the use of omics technologies to guide future diagnosis of mitochondrial diseases.
PXD045749	35147412	Proteome-Wide Deconvolution of Drug Targets and Binding Sites by Lysine Reactivity Profiling. 	Proteome-Wide Deconvolution of Drug Targets and Binding Sites by Lysine Reactivity Profiling	Drug Target	Recently, numerous efforts have been devoted to identifying drug targets and binding sites in complex proteomes, which is of great importance in modern drug discovery. In this study, we developed a robust lysine reactivity profiling method to systematically study drug-binding targets and binding sites at the proteome level. This method is based on the principle that binding of a drug to a specific region of target proteins will change the reactivity of lysine residues that are located at this region, and these changes can be detected with an enrichable and lysine reactive probe. Coupled with data-independent acquisition (DIA), the known target proteins and corresponding binding sites were successfully revealed from K562 cell lysates for three model drugs: geldanamycin, staurosporine, and dasatinib. In addition, the drug-induced conformational changes of certain targets were also revealed by our method during the screening of staurosporine. The screening sensitivity of our method revealed from the screening of stuarosporine and dasatinib was comparable with that of thermal proteome profiling (TPP) or machine learning-based limited proteolysis (LiP-Quant). Overall, 21 and 4 kinase targets, including adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP)-binding targets, were identified for staurosporine and dasatinib in K562 cell lysates, respectively. We found that target proteins identified by TPP, LiP-Quant, and our method were complementary, emphasizing that the development of new methods that probe different properties of proteins is of great importance in drug target deconvolution. We also envision further applications of our method in proteome-wide probing multiple events that involve lysine reactivity changes.
PXD019574	35149677	High content screening and proteomic analysis identify a kinase inhibitor that rescues pathological phenotypes in a patient-derived model of Parkinson's disease. 	Proteomic profiling maps the molecular pathways underlying the neuroprotective effects of the kinase inhibitor BX795 in a patient-derived model of Parkinson's disease	BX795, induced pluripotent stem cell derived neurons, mRNA metabolism, p.A53T alpha-synuclein mutation, proteostasis, alpha-synuclein	Combining high throughput screening approaches with induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-based disease modeling represents a promising unbiased strategy to identify therapies for neurodegenerative disorders. Here we applied high content imaging on iPSC-derived neurons from patients with familial Parkinson's disease bearing the G209A (p.A53T) alpha-synuclein (alphaSyn) mutation and launched a screening campaign on a small kinase inhibitor library. We thus identified the multi-kinase inhibitor BX795 that at a single dose effectively restores disease-associated neurodegenerative phenotypes. Proteomics profiling mapped the molecular pathways underlying the protective effects of BX795, comprising a cohort of 118 protein-mediators of the core biological processes of RNA metabolism, protein synthesis, modification and clearance, and stress response, all linked to the mTORC1 signaling hub. In agreement, expression of human p.A53T-alphaSyn in neuronal cells affected key components of the mTORC1 pathway resulting in aberrant protein synthesis that was restored in the presence of BX795 with concurrent facilitation of autophagy. Taken together, we have identified a promising small molecule with neuroprotective actions as candidate therapeutic for PD and other protein conformational disorders.
PXD029402	35149681	Allosteric control of Ubp6 and the proteasome via a bidirectional switch. 	Allosteric control of Ubp6 and the proteasome via a bidirectional switch	HDX-MS, Ubp6, allostery, deubiquitination, hydrogen exchange mass spectrometry, proteasome, ubiquitin	The proteasome recognizes ubiquitinated proteins and can also edit ubiquitin marks, allowing substrates to be rejected based on ubiquitin chain topology. In yeast, editing is mediated by deubiquitinating enzyme Ubp6. The proteasome activates Ubp6, whereas Ubp6 inhibits the proteasome through deubiquitination and a noncatalytic effect. Here, we report cryo-EM structures of the proteasome bound to Ubp6, based on which we identify mutants in Ubp6 and proteasome subunit Rpt1 that abrogate Ubp6 activation. The Ubp6 mutations define a conserved region that we term the ILR element. The ILR is found within the BL1 loop, which obstructs the catalytic groove in free Ubp6. Rpt1-ILR interaction opens the groove by rearranging not only BL1 but also a previously undescribed network of three interconnected active-site-blocking loops. Ubp6 activation and noncatalytic proteasome inhibition are linked in that they are eliminated by the same mutations. Ubp6 and ubiquitin together drive proteasomes into a unique conformation associated with proteasome inhibition. Thus, a multicomponent allosteric switch exerts simultaneous control over both Ubp6 and the proteasome.
PXD027641	35150638	Mutations in SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern link to increased spike cleavage and virus transmission. 	SARS-CoV-2 variants of concern have acquired mutations associated with an increased spike cleavage	Furin, GluC, PRM, ProteomeXchange project tag: Covid-19, Sars-Cov2	SARS-CoV-2 lineages have diverged into highly prevalent variants termed "variants of concern" (VOCs). Here, we characterized emerging SARS-CoV-2 spike polymorphisms in vitro and in vivo to understand their impact on transmissibility and virus pathogenicity and fitness. We demonstrate that the substitution S:655Y, represented in the gamma and omicron VOCs, enhances viral replication and spike protein cleavage. The S:655Y substitution was transmitted more efficiently than its ancestor S:655H in the hamster infection model and was able to outcompete S:655H in the hamster model and in a human primary airway system. Finally, we analyzed a set of emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants to investigate how different sets of mutations may impact spike processing. All VOCs tested exhibited increased spike cleavage and fusogenic capacity. Taken together, our study demonstrates that the spike mutations present in VOCs that become epidemiologically prevalent in humans are linked to an increase in spike processing and virus transmission.
PXD029189	35151686	Loss of the N-acetylgalactosamine side chain of the GPI-anchor impairs bone formation and brain functions and accelerates the prion disease pathology. 	GPI-glycan structures of Prion from PGAP4-KO mouse brains	Brain, GPI, GPI side chain, Prion	Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) is a posttranslational glycolipid modification of proteins that anchors proteins in lipid rafts on the cell surface. Although some GPI-anchored proteins (GPI-APs), including the prion protein PrP(C), have a glycan side chain composed of N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc)-galactose-sialic acid on the core structure of GPI glycolipid, in vivo functions of this GPI-GalNAc side chain are largely unresolved. Here, we investigated the physiological and pathological roles of the GPI-GalNAc side chain in vivo by knocking out its initiation enzyme, PGAP4, in mice. We show that Pgap4 mRNA is highly expressed in the brain, particularly in neurons, and mass spectrometry analysis confirmed the loss of the GalNAc side chain in PrP(C) GPI in PGAP4-KO mouse brains. Furthermore, PGAP4-KO mice exhibited various phenotypes, including an elevated blood alkaline phosphatase level, impaired bone formation, decreased locomotor activity, and impaired memory, despite normal expression levels and lipid raft association of various GPI-APs. Thus, we conclude that the GPI-GalNAc side chain is required for in vivo functions of GPI-APs in mammals, especially in bone and the brain. Moreover, PGAP4-KO mice were more vulnerable to prion diseases and died earlier after intracerebral inoculation of the pathogenic prion strains than wildtype mice, highlighting the protective roles of the GalNAc side chain against prion diseases.
PXD027615	35151693	Interaction of transcription factor FoxO3 with histone acetyltransferase complex subunit TRRAP modulates gene expression and apoptosis. 	HUVEC 3xHA.FoxO3.A3.ER +4-OHT vs vector +4-OHT	FoxO3, HUVEC, endothelium	Forkhead box O (FoxO) transcription factors are conserved proteins involved in the regulation of life span and age-related diseases, such as diabetes and cancer. Stress stimuli or growth factor deprivation promotes nuclear localization and activation of FoxO proteins, which-depending on the cellular context-can lead to cell cycle arrest or apoptosis. In endothelial cells (ECs), they further regulate angiogenesis and may promote inflammation and vessel destabilization implicating a role of FoxOs in vascular diseases. In several cancers, FoxOs exert a tumor-suppressive function by regulating proliferation and survival. We and others have previously shown that FoxOs can regulate these processes via two different mechanisms: by direct binding to forkhead-responsive elements at the promoter of target genes or by a poorly understood alternative process that does not require direct DNA binding and regulates key targets in primary human ECs. Here, we performed an interaction study in ECs to identify new nuclear FoxO3 interaction partners that might contribute to FoxO-dependent gene regulation. Mass spectrometry analysis of FoxO3-interacting proteins revealed transformation/transcription domain-associated protein (TRRAP), a member of multiple histone acetyltransferase complexes, as a novel binding partner of FoxO family proteins. We demonstrate that TRRAP is required to support FoxO3 transactivation and FoxO3-dependent G1 arrest and apoptosis in ECs via transcriptional activation of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27(kip1) and the proapoptotic B-cell lymphoma 2 family member, BIM. Moreover, FoxO-TRRAP interaction could explain FoxO-induced alternative gene regulation via TRRAP-dependent recruitment to target promoters lacking forkhead-responsive element sequences.
PXD022444	35154063	Global Phosphoproteomics Analysis of IBRS-2 Cells Infected With Senecavirus A. 	Global Phosphoproteomics Analysis of IBRS-2 Cells Infected with Senecavirus A	Protein modification, Senecavirus A, bioinformatics, pathway analysis, phosphoproteome, protein kinases	Phosphorylation is a widespread posttranslational modification that regulates numerous biological processes. Viruses can alter the physiological activities of host cells to promote virus particle replication, and manipulating phosphorylation is one of the mechanisms. Senecavirus A (SVA) is the causative agent of porcine idiopathic vesicular disease. Although numerous studies on SVA have been performed, comprehensive phosphoproteomics analysis of SVA infection is lacking. The present study performed a quantitative mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics survey of SVA infection in Instituto Biologico-Rim Suino-2 (IBRS-2) cells. Three parallel experiments were performed, and 4,520 phosphosites were quantified on 2,084 proteins. Gene Ontology (GO) functional enrichment and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analyses showed that many phosphorylated proteins were involved in apoptosis and spliceosome pathways, and subcellular structure localization analysis revealed that more than half were located in the nucleus. Motif analysis of proteins with differentially regulated phosphosites showed that proline, aspartic acid, and glutamic acid were the most abundant residues in the serine motif, while proline and arginine were the most abundant in the threonine motif. Forty phosphosites on 27 proteins were validated by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) phosphoproteomics, and 30 phosphosites in 21 proteins were verified. Nine proteins with significantly altered phosphosites were further discussed, and eight [SRRM2, CDK13, DDX20, DDX21, BAD, ELAVL1, PDZ-binding kinase (PBK), and STAT3] may play a role in SVA infection. Finally, kinase activity prediction showed 10 kinases' activity was reversed following SVA infection. It is the first phosphoproteomics analysis of SVA infection of IBRS-2 cells, and the results greatly expand our knowledge of SVA infection. The findings provide a basis for studying the interactions of other picornaviruses and their mammalian host cells.
PXD030884	35154161	S100A4/TCF Complex Transcription Regulation Drives Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition in Chronic Sinusitis Through Wnt/GSK-3beta/beta-Catenin Signaling. 	S100A4/TCF complex transcription regulation drives epithelial-mesenchymal transition in chronic sinusitis through Wnt/GSK-3beta/beta-catenin signaling	CRS, EMT, Epigenetic regulation, Inflammation, S100A4	Epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) is thought to be involved in the tissue remodeling and long-term inflammatory process of chronic sinusitis (CRS), but the driving mechanism is still unclear. Using high-resolution mass spectrometry, we performed a proteomic screen of CRS nasal mucosal tissue to identify differentially expressed proteins. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD030884. Specifically, we identified S100 calcium binding protein A4 (S100A4), an effective factor in inflammation-related diseases, and its downstream protein closely related to tissue fibrosis collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1), which suggested its involvement in nasal mucosal tissue remodeling. In addition, stimulation of human nasal epithelial cells (HNEpCs) with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) mimicked the inflammatory environment of CRS and showed that S100A4 is involved in regulating EMT and thus accelerating tissue remodeling in the nasal mucosa, both in terms of increased cell motility and overexpression of mesenchymal-type proteins. Additionally, we further investigated the regulation mechanism of S100A4 involved in EMT in CRS. Our research results show that in the inflammatory environment of CRS nasal mucosal epithelial cells, TCF-4 will target to bind to S100A4 and regulate its transcription. The transcription of S100A4 in turn affects the execution of the important signaling pathway in EMT, the Wnt/GSK-3beta/beta-catenin pathway, through the TCF-4/beta-catenin complex. In conclusion, this study confirmed that the expression of S100A4 was significantly increased during the progressive EMT process of CRS mucosal epithelial cells, and revealed that the transcriptional regulation of S100A4 plays an important role in the occurrence and development of EMT. This finding will help us to better understand the pathogenesis behind the remodeling in CRS patients, and identify target molecules for the treatment of CRS.
PXD030273	35155540	A Combined Proteomic and Metabolomic Strategy for Allergens Characterization in Natural and Fermented Brassica napus Bee Pollen. 	Proteomics Analysis for Bee Pollen	Bee Pollen, Brassica, Proteomics Analysis	Bee pollen is consumed for its nutritional and pharmacological benefits, but it also contains hazardous allergens which have not been identified. Here, we identified two potential allergens, glutaredoxin and oleosin-B2, in Brassica napus bee pollen using mass spectrometry-based proteomics analyses, and used bioinformatics to predict their antigenic epitopes. Comparison of fermented (by Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and unfermented bee pollen samples indicated that glutaredoxin and oleosin-B2 contents were significantly decreased following fermentation, while the contents of their major constituent oligopeptides and amino acids were significantly increased based on metabolomics analyses. Immunoblot analysis indicated that the IgE-binding affinity with extracted bee pollen proteins was also significantly decreased after fermentation, suggesting a reduction in the allergenicity of fermented bee pollen. Furthermore, fermentation apparently promoted the biosynthesis of L-valine, L-isoleucine, L-tryptophan, and L-phenylalanine, as well as their precursors or intermediates. Thus, fermentation could potentially alleviate allergenicity, while also positively affecting nutritional properties of B. napus bee pollen. Our findings might provide a scientific foundation for improving the safety of bee pollen products to facilitate its wider application.
PXD024280	35156773	SCAI promotes error-free repair of DNA interstrand crosslinks via the Fanconi anemia pathway. 	SCAI orchestrates DNA interstrand crosslink repair downstream of FANCI-FANCD2 ubiquitylation	CHROMASS, DNA damage, FANCD2, FANCI, ICL, SCAI, Xenopus, interstrand crosslink repair	DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs) are cytotoxic lesions that threaten genome integrity. The Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway orchestrates ICL repair during DNA replication, with ubiquitylated FANCI-FANCD2 (ID2) marking the activation step that triggers incisions on DNA to unhook the ICL. Restoration of intact DNA requires the coordinated actions of polymerase zeta (Polzeta)-mediated translesion synthesis (TLS) and homologous recombination (HR). While the proteins mediating FA pathway activation have been well characterized, the effectors regulating repair pathway choice to promote error-free ICL resolution remain poorly defined. Here, we uncover an indispensable role of SCAI in ensuring error-free ICL repair upon activation of the FA pathway. We show that SCAI forms a complex with Polzeta and localizes to ICLs during DNA replication. SCAI-deficient cells are exquisitely sensitive to ICL-inducing drugs and display major hallmarks of FA gene inactivation. In the absence of SCAI, HR-mediated ICL repair is defective, and breaks are instead re-ligated by polymerase theta-dependent microhomology-mediated end-joining, generating deletions spanning the ICL site and radial chromosomes. Our work establishes SCAI as an integral FA pathway component, acting at the interface between TLS and HR to promote error-free ICL repair.
PXD028632	35156921	Multiomic characterization of pancreatic cancer-associated macrophage polarization reveals deregulated metabolic programs driven by the GM-CSF-PI3K pathway. 	Multi-omic Characterization of Pancreatic Cancer-Associated Macrophage Polarization Reveals Deregulated Metabolic Programs Driven by the GMCSF-PI3K Pathway	macrophage, metabolism, polarization	The pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma microenvironment is composed of a variety of cell types and marked by extensive fibrosis and inflammation. Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are abundant, and they are important mediators of disease progression and invasion. TAMs are polarized in situ to a tumor promoting and immunosuppressive phenotype via cytokine signaling and metabolic crosstalk from malignant epithelial cells and other components of the tumor microenvironment. However, the specific distinguishing features and functions of TAMs remain poorly defined. Here, we generated tumor-educated macrophages (TEMs) in vitro and performed detailed, multiomic characterization (i.e., transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics). Our results reveal unique genetic and metabolic signatures of TEMs, the veracity of which were queried against our in-house single-cell RNA sequencing dataset of human pancreatic tumors. This analysis identified expression of novel, metabolic TEM markers in human pancreatic TAMs, including ARG1, ACLY, and TXNIP. We then utilized our TEM model system to study the role of mutant Kras signaling in cancer cells on TEM polarization. This revealed an important role for granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) and lactate on TEM polarization, molecules released from cancer cells in a mutant Kras-dependent manner. Lastly, we demonstrate that GM-CSF dysregulates TEM gene expression and metabolism through PI3K-AKT pathway signaling. Collectively, our results define new markers and programs to classify pancreatic TAMs, how these are engaged by cancer cells, and the precise signaling pathways mediating polarization.
PXD032973	35157803	Impact of Tannin Supplementation on Proteolysis during Post-Ruminal Digestion in Wethers Using a Dynamic In Vitro System: A Plant (Medicago sativa) Digestomic Approach. 	PRODIGE, Digestomic data of proteolysis after tanin supplementation in the rumen	DIGI, Digestomic Rumen, Label free Quantitation, ProteomeXchange project tag: Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP), Proteomic data, peptidomic data	The aim of this study was to characterize the effects of tannins on plant protein during sheep digestion using a digestomic approach combining in vivo (rumen) conditions and an in vitro digestive system (abomasum and small intestine). Ruminal fluid from wethers infused with a tannin solution or water (control) was introduced into the digester, and protein degradation was followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Tannin infusion in the rumen led to a clear decrease in protein degradation-related fermentation end-products, whereas ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCo) protein was more abundant than in control wethers. In the simulated abomasum, peptidomic analysis showed more degradation products of RuBisCo in the presence of tannins. The effect of RuBisCo protection by tannins continued to impact Rubisco digestion into early-stage intestinal digestion but was no longer detectable in late-stage intestinal digestion. The peptidomics approach proved a potent tool for identifying and quantifying the type of protein hydrolyzed throughout the gastrointestinal tract.
PXD018156	35157847	Deglutarylation of glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase by deacylating enzyme SIRT5 promotes lysine oxidation in mice. 	Deglutarylation of GCDH by SIRT5 controls lysine metabolism in mice	GCDH, Sirt5, acylation, mitochondria, sirtuins	A wide range of protein acyl modifications has been identified on enzymes across various metabolic processes; however, the impact of these modifications remains poorly understood. Protein glutarylation is a recently identified modification that can be nonenzymatically driven by glutaryl-CoA. In mammalian systems, this unique metabolite is only produced in the lysine and tryptophan oxidative pathways. To better understand the biology of protein glutarylation, we studied the relationship between enzymes within the lysine/tryptophan catabolic pathways, protein glutarylation, and regulation by the deglutarylating enzyme sirtuin 5 (SIRT5). Here, we identify glutarylation on the lysine oxidation pathway enzyme glutaryl-CoA dehydrogenase (GCDH) and show increased GCDH glutarylation when glutaryl-CoA production is stimulated by lysine catabolism. Our data reveal that glutarylation of GCDH impacts its function, ultimately decreasing lysine oxidation. We also demonstrate the ability of SIRT5 to deglutarylate GCDH, restoring its enzymatic activity. Finally, metabolomic and bioinformatic analyses indicate an expanded role for SIRT5 in regulating amino acid metabolism. Together, these data support a feedback loop model within the lysine/tryptophan oxidation pathway in which glutaryl-CoA is produced, in turn inhibiting GCDH function via glutaryl modification of GCDH lysine residues and can be relieved by SIRT5 deacylation activity.
PXD030354	35159198	The Transglutaminase-2 Interactome in the APP23 Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease. 	The Transglutaminase-2 interactome in the APP23 mouse model of Alzheimer disease	LC-MSMS SWATH Mouse TGM2 Alzheimers	Amyloid-beta (Abeta) deposition in the brain is closely linked with the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Unfortunately, therapies specifically targeting Abeta deposition have failed to reach their primary clinical endpoints, emphasizing the need to broaden the search strategy for alternative targets/mechanisms. Transglutaminase-2 (TG2) catalyzes post-translational modifications, is present in AD lesions and interacts with AD-associated proteins. However, an unbiased overview of TG2 interactors is lacking in both control and AD brain. Here we aimed to identify these interactors using a crossbreed of the AD-mimicking APP23 mouse model with wild type and TG2 knock-out (TG2(-/-)) mice. We found that absence of TG2 had no (statistically) significant effect on Abeta pathology, soluble brain levels of Abeta1-40 and Abeta1-42, and mRNA levels of TG family members compared to APP23 mice at 18 months of age. Quantitative proteomics and network analysis revealed a large cluster of TG2 interactors involved in synaptic transmission/assembly and cell adhesion in the APP23 brain typical of AD. Comparative proteomics of wild type and TG2(-/-) brains revealed a TG2-linked pathological proteome consistent with alterations in both pathways. Our data show that TG2 deletion leads to considerable network alterations consistent with a TG2 role in (dys)regulation of synaptic transmission and cell adhesion in APP23 brains.
PXD030671	35159257	Spatial Proteomic Analysis of Isogenic Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Cells Reveals Key Dysregulated Proteins Associated with Lymph Node, Liver, and Lung Metastasis. 	Spatial Proteomic Analysis of Isogenic Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Cells Reveals Key Dysregulated Proteins Associated with Lymph Node, Liver and Lung Metastasis	Cells, Colorectal cancer, Spatial Proteomics, TMT 11-Plex	Metastasis is the primary cause of colorectal cancer (CRC) death. The liver and lung, besides adjacent lymph nodes, are the most common sites of metastasis. Here, we aimed to study the lymph nodes, liver, and lung CRC metastasis by quantitative spatial proteomics analysis using CRC cell-based models that recapitulate these metastases. The isogenic KM12 cell system composed of the non-metastatic KM12C cells, liver metastatic KM12SM cells, and liver and lung metastatic KM12L4a cells, and the isogenic non-metastatic SW480 and lymph nodes metastatic SW620 cells, were used. Cells were fractionated to study by proteomics five subcellular fractions corresponding to cytoplasm, membrane, nucleus, chromatin-bound proteins, and cytoskeletal proteins, and the secretome. Trypsin digested extracts were labeled with TMT 11-plex and fractionated prior to proteomics analysis on a Q Exactive. We provide data on protein abundance and localization of 4710 proteins in their different subcellular fractions, depicting dysregulation of proteins in abundance and/or localization in the most common sites of CRC metastasis. After bioinformatics, alterations in abundance and localization for selected proteins from diverse subcellular localizations were validated via WB, IF, IHC, and ELISA using CRC cells, patient tissues, and plasma samples. Results supported the relevance of the proteomics results in an actual CRC scenario. It was particularly relevant that the measurement of GLG1 in plasma showed diagnostic ability of advanced stages of the disease, and that the mislocalization of MUC5AC and BAIAP2 in the nucleus and membrane, respectively, was significantly associated with poor prognosis of CRC patients. Our results demonstrate that the analysis of cell extracts dilutes protein alterations in abundance in specific localizations that might only be observed studying specific subcellular fractions, as here observed for BAIAP2, GLG1, PHYHIPL, TNFRSF10A, or CDKN2AIP, which are interesting proteins that should be further analyzed in CRC metastasis.
PXD022712	35161271	Identification of Novel Candidate Genes Involved in Apple Cuticle Integrity and Russeting-Associated Triterpene Synthesis Using Metabolomic, Proteomic, and Transcriptomic Data. 	Integrative analysis of two russeted and non-russeted closely related apple varieties during fruit development provides new insights about the cuticle/suberin interplay	: russeting, apple skin., conjugated triterpene, integrative analysis, metabolomics, suberin	Apple russeting develops on the fruit surface when skin integrity has been lost. It induces a modification of fruit wax composition, including its triterpene profile. In the present work, we studied two closely related apple varieties, 'Reinette grise du Canada' and 'Reinette blanche du Canada', which display russeted and non-russeted skin phenotypes, respectively, during fruit development. To better understand the molecular events associated with russeting and the differential triterpene composition, metabolomics data were generated using liquid chromatography coupled to high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-HRMS) and combined with proteomic and transcriptomic data. Our results indicated lower expression of genes linked to cuticle biosynthesis (cutin and wax) in russet apple throughout fruit development, along with an alteration of the specialized metabolism pathways, including triterpene and phenylpropanoid. We identified a lipid transfer protein (LTP3) as a novel player in cuticle formation, possibly involved in the transport of both cutin and wax components in apple skin. Metabolomic data highlighted for the first time a large diversity of triterpene-hydroxycinnamates in russeted tissues, accumulation of which was highly correlated with suberin-related genes, including some enzymes belonging to the BAHD (HXXXD-motif) acyltransferase family. Overall, this study increases our understanding about the crosstalk between triterpene and suberin pathways.
PXD030163	35162964	Heme A Synthase Deficiency Affects the Ability of Bacillus cereus to Adapt to a Nutrient-Limited Environment. 	Bacillus cereus ctaA mutant strain proteomics grown in glucose containing medium, exoproteome	AH187, bacillus cereus, ctaA mutant strain, exoproteome, heme A synthase, respiratory metabolism	The branched aerobic respiratory chain in Bacillus cereus comprises three terminal oxidases: cytochromes aa3, caa3, and bd. Cytochrome caa3 requires heme A for activity, which is produced from heme O by heme A synthase (CtaA). In this study, we deleted the ctaA gene in B. cereus AH187 strain, this deletion resulted in loss of cytochrome caa3 activity. Proteomics data indicated that B. cereus grown in glucose-containing medium compensates for the loss of cytochrome caa3 activity by remodeling its respiratory metabolism. This remodeling involves up-regulation of cytochrome aa3 and several proteins involved in redox stress response-to circumvent sub-optimal respiratory metabolism. CtaA deletion changed the surface-composition of B. cereus, affecting its motility, autoaggregation phenotype, and the kinetics of biofilm formation. Strikingly, proteome remodeling made the ctaA mutant more resistant to cold and exogenous oxidative stresses compared to its parent strain. Consequently, we hypothesized that ctaA inactivation could improve B. cereus fitness in a nutrient-limited environment.
PXD029283	35162991	Mapping PP1c and Its Inhibitor 2 Interactomes Reveals Conserved and Specific Networks in Asexual and Sexual Stages of Plasmodium. 	Mapping PP1c and its Inhibitor 2 interactomes reveals conserved and specific networks in asexual and sexual stages of Plasmodium	Inhibitor 2, Interactome, Interactomics, PP1 partners., Plasmodium, Protein Phosphatase 1, dephosphorylation	Malaria parasites require multiple phosphorylation and dephosphorylation steps to drive signaling pathways for proper differentiation and transformation. Several protein phosphatases, including protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), one of the main dephosphorylation enzymes, have been shown to be indispensable for the Plasmodium life cycle. The catalytic subunit of PP1 (PP1c) participates in cellular processes via dynamic interactions with a vast number of binding partners that contribute to its diversity of action. In this study, we used Plasmodium berghei transgenic parasite strains stably expressing PP1c or its inhibitor 2 (I2) tagged with mCherry, combined with the mCherry affinity pulldown of proteins from asexual and sexual stages, followed by mass spectrometry analyses. Mapped proteins were used to identify interactomes and to cluster functionally related proteins. Our findings confirm previously known physical interactions of PP1c and reveal enrichment of common biological processes linked to cellular component assembly in both schizonts and gametocytes to biosynthetic processes/translation in schizonts and to protein transport exclusively in gametocytes. Further, our analysis of PP1c and I2 interactomes revealed that nuclear export mediator factor and peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase, suggested to be essential in P. falciparum, could be potential targets of the complex PP1c/I2 in both asexual and sexual stages. Our study emphasizes the adaptability of Plasmodium PP1 and provides a fundamental study of the protein interaction landscapes involved in a myriad of events in Plasmodium, suggesting why it is crucial to the parasite and a source for alternative therapeutic strategies.
PXD027289	35163387	Cyclophilin A Is Not Acetylated at Lysine-82 and Lysine-125 in Resting and Stimulated Platelets. 	Cyclophilin A is not acetylated at Lysine-82 and Lysine-125 in resting and stimulated platelets	PTM, acetylation, cycA	Cyclophilin A (CyPA) is widely expressed by all prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. Upon activation, CyPA can be released into the extracellular space to engage in a variety of functions, such as interaction with the CD147 receptor, that contribute to the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases. CyPA was recently found to undergo acetylation at K82 and K125, two lysine residues conserved in most species, and these modifications are required for secretion of CyPA in response to cell activation in vascular smooth muscle cells. Herein we addressed whether acetylation at these sites is also required for the release of CyPA from platelets based on the potential for local delivery of CyPA that may exacerbate cardiovascular disease events. Western blot analyses confirmed the presence of CyPA in human and mouse platelets. Thrombin stimulation resulted in CyPA release from platelets; however, no acetylation was observed-neither in cell lysates nor in supernatants of both untreated and activated platelets, nor after immunoprecipitation of CyPA from platelets. Shotgun proteomics detected two CyPA peptide precursors in the recombinant protein, acetylated at K28, but again, no acetylation was found in CyPA derived from resting or stimulated platelets. Our findings suggest that acetylation of CyPA is not a major protein modification in platelets and that CyPA acetylation is not required for its secretion from platelets.
PXD031053	35163388	Oxidative Stress Modulation by Carnosine in Scaffold Free Human Dermis Spheroids Model: A Proteomic Study. 	Carnosine effect  in scaffold free human dermis spheroids model	carnosine, label free, spheroids	Carnosine is an endogenous beta-alanyl-L-histidine dipeptide endowed with antioxidant and carbonyl scavenger properties, which is able to significantly prevent the visible signs of aging and photoaging. To investigate the mechanism of action of carnosine on human skin proteome, a 3D scaffold-free spheroid model of primary dermal fibroblasts from a 50-year-old donor was adopted in combination with quantitative proteomics for the first time. The label free proteomics approach based on high-resolution mass spectrometry, integrated with network analyses, provided a highly sensitive and selective method to describe the human dermis spheroid model during long-term culture and upon carnosine treatment. Overall, 2171 quantified proteins allowed the in-depth characterization of the 3D dermis phenotype during growth and differentiation, at 14 versus 7 days of culture. A total of 485 proteins were differentially regulated by carnosine at 7 days, an intermediate time of culture. Of the several modulated pathways, most are involved in mitochondrial functionality, such as oxidative phosphorylation, TCA cycle, extracellular matrix reorganization and apoptosis. In long-term culture, functional modules related to oxidative stress were upregulated, inducing the aging process of dermis spheroids, while carnosine treatment prevented this by the downregulation of the same functional modules. The application of quantitative proteomics, coupled to advanced and relevant in vitro scaffold free spheroids, represents a new concrete application for personalized therapies and a novel care approach.
PXD031168	35163588	The H. pylori CagA Oncoprotein Induces DNA Double Strand Breaks through Fanconi Anemia Pathway Downregulation and Replication Fork Collapse. 	The H. pylori CagA Oncoprotein Induces DNA Double Strand Breaks Through Fanconi Anemia Pathway Downregulation and Replication Fork Collapse	CagA, DNA double strand breaks, DNA replication, Fanconi Anemia, H. pylori, H2AX	The proteins from the Fanconi Anemia (FA) pathway of DNA repair maintain DNA replication fork integrity by preventing the unscheduled degradation of nascent DNA at regions of stalled replication forks. Here, we ask if the bacterial pathogen H. pylori exploits the fork stabilisation machinery to generate double stand breaks (DSBs) and genomic instability. Specifically, we study if the H. pylori virulence factor CagA generates host genomic DSBs through replication fork destabilisation and collapse. An inducible gastric cancer model was used to examine global CagA-dependent transcriptomic and proteomic alterations, using RNA sequencing and SILAC-based mass spectrometry, respectively. The transcriptional alterations were confirmed in gastric cancer cell lines infected with H. pylori. Functional analysis was performed using chromatin fractionation, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE), and single molecule DNA replication/repair fiber assays. We found a core set of 31 DNA repair factors including the FA genes FANCI, FANCD2, BRCA1, and BRCA2 that were downregulated following CagA expression. H. pylori infection of gastric cancer cell lines showed downregulation of the aforementioned FA genes in a CagA-dependent manner. Consistent with FA pathway downregulation, chromatin purification studies revealed impaired levels of Rad51 but higher recruitment of the nuclease MRE11 on the chromatin of CagA-expressing cells, suggesting impaired fork protection. In line with the above data, fibre assays revealed higher fork degradation, lower fork speed, daughter strands gap accumulation, and impaired re-start of replication forks in the presence of CagA, indicating compromised genome stability. By downregulating the expression of key DNA repair genes such as FANCI, FANCD2, BRCA1, and BRCA2, H. pylori CagA compromises host replication fork stability and induces DNA DSBs through fork collapse. These data unveil an intriguing example of a bacterial virulence factor that induces genomic instability by interfering with the host replication fork stabilisation machinery.
PXD027471	35163596	Enhanced Bacteremia in Dextran Sulfate-Induced Colitis in Splenectomy Mice Correlates with Gut Dysbiosis and LPS Tolerance. 	Exploration on survived mice after sepsis and proteomic analy-sis on LPS-activated macrophages supports the regulation of sepsis hyper-inflammation by intravenous immunoglobulin	CLP, IVIG, Macrophages, proteomic analysis, sepsis	Because both endotoxemia and gut dysbiosis post-splenectomy might be associated with systemic infection, the susceptibility against infection was tested by dextran sulfate solution (DSS)-induced colitis and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) injection models in splenectomy mice with macrophage experiments. Here, splenectomy induced a gut barrier defect (FITC-dextran assay, endotoxemia, bacteria in mesenteric lymph nodes, and the loss of enterocyte tight junction) and gut dysbiosis (increased Proteobacteria by fecal microbiome analysis) without systemic inflammation (serum IL-6). In parallel, DSS induced more severe mucositis in splenectomy mice than sham-DSS mice, as indicated by mortality, stool consistency, gut barrier defect, serum cytokines, and blood bacterial burdens. The presence of green fluorescent-producing (GFP) E. coli in the spleen of sham-DSS mice after an oral gavage supported a crucial role of the spleen in the control of bacteria from gut translocation. Additionally, LPS administration in splenectomy mice induced lower serum cytokines (TNF-alpha and IL-6) than LPS-administered sham mice, perhaps due to LPS tolerance from pre-existing post-splenectomy endotoxemia. In macrophages, LPS tolerance (sequential LPS stimulation) demonstrated lower cell activities than the single LPS stimulation, as indicated by the reduction in supernatant cytokines, pro-inflammatory genes (iNOS and IL-1beta), cell energy status (extracellular flux analysis), and enzymes of the glycolysis pathway (proteomic analysis). In conclusion, a gut barrier defect after splenectomy was vulnerable to enterocyte injury (such as DSS), which caused severe bacteremia due to defects in microbial control (asplenia) and endotoxemia-induced LPS tolerance. Hence, gut dysbiosis and gut bacterial translocation in patients with a splenectomy might be associated with systemic infection, and gut-barrier monitoring or intestinal tight-junction strengthening may be useful.
PXD029895	35163832	ERAP2 Inhibition Induces Cell-Surface Presentation by MOLT-4 Leukemia Cancer Cells of Many Novel and Potentially Antigenic Peptides. 	An ERAP2 inhibitor induces cell-surface presentation of many new and potentially antigenic peptides by cancer cells	DG011A, ER aminopeptidase 2, ERAP2, Immunopeptidomics, Inhibitor, MHCI, MOLT4	Recent studies have linked the activity of ER aminopeptidase 2 (ERAP2) to increased efficacy of immune-checkpoint inhibitor cancer immunotherapy, suggesting that pharmacological inhibition of ERAP2 could have important therapeutic implications. To explore the effects of ERAP2 inhibition on the immunopeptidome of cancer cells, we treated MOLT-4 T lymphoblast leukemia cells with a recently developed selective ERAP2 inhibitor, isolated Major Histocompatibility class I molecules (MHCI), and sequenced bound peptides by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Inhibitor treatment induced significant shifts on the immunopeptidome so that more than 20% of detected peptides were either novel or significantly upregulated. Most of the inhibitor-induced peptides were 9mers and had sequence motifs and predicted affinity consistent with being optimal ligands for at least one of the MHCI alleles carried by MOLT-4 cells. Such inhibitor-induced peptides could serve as triggers for novel cytotoxic responses against cancer cells and synergize with the therapeutic effect of immune-checkpoint inhibitors.
PXD017032	35164288	Comparative Phosphoproteomic Analysis of Sporulated Oocysts and Tachyzoites of Toxoplasma gondii Reveals Stage-Specific Patterns. 	Comparative phosphoproteomic analysis of sporulated oocysts between virulent and avirulent strains of Toxoplasma gondii reveals strain-specific patterns	Genotype, Phosphoproteomics, Sporulated oocyst, Toxoplasma gondii, iBT	Toxoplasma gondii is an obligate intracellular protozoan of severe threat to humans and livestock, whose life history harbors both gamic and apogamic stages. Chinese 1 (ToxoDB#9) was a preponderant genotype epidemic in food-derived animals and humans in China, with a different pathogenesis from the strains from the other nations of the world. Posttranslational modifications (PTMs) of proteins were critical mediators of the biology, developmental transforms, and pathogenesis of protozoan parasites. The phosphoprotein profiling and the difference between the developmental phases of T. gondii, contributing to development and infectivity, remain unknown. A quantitative phosphoproteomic approach using IBT integrated with TiO2 affinity chromatography was applied to identify and analyze the difference in the phosphoproteomes between the sporulated oocysts and the tachyzoites of the virulent ToxoDB#9 (PYS) strain of T. gondii. A total of 4058 differential phosphopeptides, consisting of 2597 upregulated and 1461 downregulated phosphopeptides, were characterized between sporulated the oocysts and tachyzoites. Twenty-one motifs extracted from the upregulated phosphopeptides contained 19 serine motifs and 2 threonine motifs (GxxTP and TP), whereas 16 motifs identified from downregulated phosphopeptides included 13 serine motifs and 3 threonine motifs (KxxT, RxxT, and TP). Beyond the traditional kinases, some infrequent classes of kinases, including Ab1, EGFR, INSR, Jak, Src and Syk, were found to be corresponding to motifs from the upregulated and downregulated phosphopeptides. Remarkable functional properties of the differentially expressed phosphoproteins were discovered by GO analysis, KEGG pathway analysis, and STRING analysis. S8GFS8 (DNMT1-RFD domain-containing protein) and S8F5G5 (Histone kinase SNF1) were the two most connected peptides in the kinase-associated network. Out of these, phosphorylated modifications in histone kinase SNF1 have functioned in mitosis and interphase of T. gondii, as well as in the regulation of gene expression relevant to differentiation. Our study discovered a remarkable difference in the abundance of phosphopeptides between the sporulated oocysts and tachyzoites of the virulent ToxoDB#9 (PYS) strain of T. gondii, which may provide a new resource for understanding stage-specific differences in PTMs and may enhance the illustration of the regulatory mechanisms contributing to the development and infectivity of T. gondii.
PXD030744	35164374	Unravelling the Helianthus tuberosus L. (Jerusalem Artichoke, Kiku-Imo) Tuber Proteome by Label-Free Quantitative Proteomics. 	Label-free Quantitative Proteomics Approach to Unravel the Jerusalem artichoke (Helianthus tuberosus L.) Tuber	Jerusalem artichoke, Solid-phase extraction, Type 2 diabetes mellitus	The present research investigates the tuber proteome of the 'medicinal' plant Jerusalem artichoke (abbreviated as JA) (Helianthus tuberosus L.) using a high-throughput proteomics technique. Although JA has been historically known to the Native Americans, it was introduced to Europe in the late 19th century and later spread to Japan (referred to as 'kiku-imo') as a folk remedy for diabetes. Genboku Takahashi research group has been working on the cultivation and utilization of kiku-imo tuber as a traditional/alternative medicine in daily life and researched on the lowering of blood sugar level, HbA1c, etc., in human subjects (unpublished data). Understanding the protein components of the tuber may shed light on its healing properties, especially related to diabetes. Using three commercially processed JA tuber products (dried powder and dried chips) we performed total protein extraction on the powdered samples using a label-free quantitate proteomic approach (mass spectrometry) and catalogued for the first time a comprehensive protein list for the JA tuber. A total of 2967 protein groups were identified, statistically analyzed, and further categorized into different protein classes using bioinformatics techniques. We discussed the association of these proteins to health and disease regulatory metabolism. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD030744.
PXD020793	35164409	Evaluation of Fast and Sensitive Proteome Profiling of FF and FFPE Kidney Patient Tissues. 	Proteome profiling of FF and FFPE microdissected human kidney tissue	FF, FFPE, Kidney, MS-compatible protocols	The application of proteomics to fresh frozen (FF) and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) human tissues is an important development spurred on by requests from stakeholder groups in clinical fields. One objective is to complement current diagnostic methods with new specific molecular information. An important goal is to achieve adequate and consistent protein recovery across and within large-scale studies. Here, we describe development of several protocols incorporating mass spectrometry compatible detergents, including Rapigest, PPS, and ProteaseMax. Methods were applied on 4 and 15 mum thick FF tissues, and 4 mum thick FFPE tissues. We evaluated sensitivity and repeatability of the methods and found that the protocol containing Rapigest enabled detection of 630 proteins from FF tissue of 1 mm(2) and 15 mum thick, whereas 498 and 297 proteins were detected with the protocols containing ProteaseMax and PPS, respectively. Surprisingly, PPS-containing buffer showed good extraction of the proteins from 4 mum thick FFPE tissue with the average of 270 protein identifications (1 mm(2)), similar to the results on 4 mum thick FF. Moreover, we found that temperature increases during incubation with urea on 4 mum thick FF tissue revealed a decrease in the number of identified proteins and increase in the number of the carbamylated peptides.
PXD025273	35164671	Integrative omics reveals subtle molecular perturbations following ischemic conditioning in a porcine kidney transplant model. 	Transplant Model Ischemic Conditioning Causes Tissue Leakage and Suppressed Inflammation in a Porcine Kidney	Inflammation, Integrative Omics, Kidney Transplantation, Remote Ischaemic Conditioning, Transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: Remote Ischemic Conditioning (RIC) has been proposed as a therapeutic intervention to circumvent the ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI) that is inherent to organ transplantation. Using a porcine kidney transplant model, we aimed to decipher the subclinical molecular effects of a RIC regime, compared to non-RIC controls. METHODS: Kidney pairs (n = 8 + 8) were extracted from brain dead donor pigs and transplanted in juvenile recipient pigs following a period of cold ischemia. One of the two kidney recipients in each pair was subjected to RIC prior to kidney graft reperfusion, while the other served as non-RIC control. We designed an integrative Omics strategy combining transcriptomics, proteomics, and phosphoproteomics to deduce molecular signatures in kidney tissue that could be attributed to RIC. RESULTS: In kidney grafts taken out 10 h after transplantation we detected minimal molecular perturbations following RIC compared to non-RIC at the transcriptome level, which was mirrored at the proteome level. In particular, we noted that RIC resulted in suppression of tissue inflammatory profiles. Furthermore, an accumulation of muscle extracellular matrix assembly proteins in kidney tissues was detected at the protein level, which may be in response to muscle tissue damage and/or fibrosis. However, the majority of these protein changes did not reach significance (p < 0.05). CONCLUSIONS: Our data identifies subtle molecular phenotypes in porcine kidneys following RIC, and this knowledge could potentially aid optimization of remote ischemic conditioning protocols in renal transplantation.
PXD019038	35165100	Tumor Drug Concentration and Phosphoproteomic Profiles After Two Weeks of Treatment With Sunitinib in Patients with Newly Diagnosed Glioblastoma. 	Tumor drug concentration and phosphoproteomic profiles after two weeks of treatment with sunitinib in patients with newly-diagnosed glioblastoma	GBM, Sunitinib, TKI, glioblastoma, label-free, phosphoproteomics, single-shot	PURPOSE: Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) have poor efficacy in patients with glioblastoma (GBM). Here, we studied whether this is predominantly due to restricted blood-brain barrier penetration or more to biological characteristics of GBM. PATIENTS AND METHODS: Tumor drug concentrations of the TKI sunitinib after 2 weeks of preoperative treatment was determined in 5 patients with GBM and compared with its in vitro inhibitory concentration (IC50) in GBM cell lines. In addition, phosphotyrosine (pTyr)-directed mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics was performed to evaluate sunitinib-treated versus control GBM tumors. RESULTS: The median tumor sunitinib concentration of 1.9 mumol/L (range 1.0-3.4) was 10-fold higher than in concurrent plasma, but three times lower than sunitinib IC50s in GBM cell lines (median 5.4 mumol/L, 3.0-8.5; P = 0.01). pTyr-phosphoproteomic profiles of tumor samples from 4 sunitinib-treated versus 7 control patients revealed 108 significantly up- and 23 downregulated (P < 0.05) phosphopeptides for sunitinib treatment, resulting in an EGFR-centered signaling network. Outlier analysis of kinase activities as a potential strategy to identify drug targets in individual tumors identified nine kinases, including MAPK10 and INSR/IGF1R. CONCLUSIONS: Achieved tumor sunitinib concentrations in patients with GBM are higher than in plasma, but lower than reported for other tumor types and insufficient to significantly inhibit tumor cell growth in vitro. Therefore, alternative TKI dosing to increase intratumoral sunitinib concentrations might improve clinical benefit for patients with GBM. In parallel, a complex profile of kinase activity in GBM was found, supporting the potential of (phospho)proteomic analysis for the identification of targets for (combination) treatment.
PXD031014	35165282	EBV miRNAs BART11 and BART17-3p promote immune escape through the enhancer-mediated transcription of PD-L1. 	Human nasopharyngeal cancer cell HONE1 FOXP1 immunoprecipitates LC-MS	FOXP1, nasopharyngeal cancer cell	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is reportedly the first identified human tumor virus, and is closely related to the occurrence and development of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), gastric carcinoma (GC), and several lymphomas. PD-L1 expression is elevated in EBV-positive NPC and GC tissues; however, the specific mechanisms underlying the EBV-dependent promotion of PD-L1 expression to induce immune escape warrant clarification. EBV encodes 44 mature miRNAs. In this study, we find that EBV-miR-BART11 and EBV-miR-BART17-3p upregulate the expression of PD-L1 in EBV-associated NPC and GC. Furthermore, EBV-miR-BART11 targets FOXP1, EBV-miR-BART17-3p targets PBRM1, and FOXP1 and PBRM1 bind to the enhancer region of PD-L1 to inhibit its expression. Therefore, EBV-miR-BART11 and EBV-miR-BART17-3p inhibit FOXP1 and PBRM1, respectively, and enhance the transcription of PD-L1 (CD274, http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene/29126 ), resulting in the promotion of tumor immune escape, which provides insights into potential targets for EBV-related tumor immunotherapy.
PXD028605	35166117	Proteomic Analysis of Whole Blood Using Volumetric Absorptive Microsampling for Precision Medicine Biomarker Studies. 	Human whole blood processed with VAMS device	LC-MS, VAMS, blood, microsampling, plasma	Microsampling of patient blood promises several benefits over conventional phlebotomy practices to facilitate precision medicine studies. These include at-home patient blood collection, supporting telehealth monitoring, minimal postcollection processing, and compatibility with nonrefrigerated transport and storage. However, for proteomic biomarker studies, mass spectrometry of whole blood has generally been avoided in favor of using plasma or serum obtained from venepuncture. We evaluated the use of a volumetric absorptive microsampling (VAMS) device as a sample preparation matrix to enable LC-MS proteomic analyses of dried whole blood. We demonstrated the detection and robust quantitation of up to 1600 proteins from single-shot shotgun-LC-MS analysis of dried whole blood, greatly enhancing proteome depth compared with conventional single-shot LC-MS analyses of undepleted plasma. Some proteins not previously reported in blood were detected using this approach. Various washing reagents were used to demonstrate that proteins can be preferentially removed from VAMS devices prior to downstream analyses. We provide a demonstration that archival frozen blood cell pellets housed under long-term storage (exceeding 5 years) are compatible with VAMS to enable quantitation of potential biomarker proteins from biobank repositories. These demonstrations are important steps in establishing viable analysis workflows to underpin large-scale precision medicine studies. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD028605.
PXD029084	35166826	SLX4 dampens MutSalpha-dependent mismatch repair. 	Searching for interactors of endogenous SLX4	Interactome, endogenous SLX4	The tumour suppressor SLX4 plays multiple roles in the maintenance of genome stability, acting as a scaffold for structure-specific endonucleases and other DNA repair proteins. It directly interacts with the mismatch repair (MMR) protein MSH2 but the significance of this interaction remained unknown until recent findings showing that MutSbeta (MSH2-MSH3) stimulates in vitro the SLX4-dependent Holliday junction resolvase activity. Here, we characterize the mode of interaction between SLX4 and MSH2, which relies on an MSH2-interacting peptide (SHIP box) that drives interaction of SLX4 with both MutSbeta and MutSalpha (MSH2-MSH6). While we show that this MSH2 binding domain is dispensable for the well-established role of SLX4 in interstrand crosslink repair, we find that it mediates inhibition of MutSalpha-dependent MMR by SLX4, unravelling an unanticipated function of SLX4.
PXD031397	35171034	Long-Term Hepatitis B Virus Infection Induces Cytopathic Effects in Primary Human Hepatocytes, and Can Be Partially Reversed by Antiviral Therapy. 	Long-Term Hepatitis B Virus Infection Induces Cytopathic Effects in Primary Human Hepatocytes, and Can be Partially Reversed by Antiviral Therapy	Hepatitis B Virus, RNA interference	Chronic infection of hepatitis B virus (HBV) remains a major health burden worldwide. While the immune response has been recognized to play crucial roles in HBV pathogenesis, the direct cytopathic effects of HBV infection and replication on host hepatocytes and the HBV-host interactions are only partially defined due to limited culture systems. Here, based on our recently developed 5 chemical-cultured primary human hepatocytes (5C-PHHs) model that supports long-term HBV infection, we performed multiplexed quantitative analysis of temporal changes of host proteome and transcriptome on PHHs infected by HBV for up to 4 weeks. We showed that metabolic-, complement-, cytoskeleton-, mitochondrial-, and oxidation-related pathways were modulated at transcriptional or posttranscriptional levels during long-term HBV infection, which led to cytopathic effects and could be partially rescued by early, rather than late, nucleot(s)ide analog (NA) administration and could be significantly relieved by blocking viral antigens with RNA interference (RNAi). Overexpression screening of the dysregulated proteins identified a series of host factors that may contribute to pro- or anti-HBV responses of the infected hepatocytes. In conclusion, our results suggest that long-term HBV infection in primary human hepatocytes leads to cytopathic effects through remodeling the proteome and transcriptome and early antiviral treatment may reduce the extent of such effects, indicating a role of virological factors in HBV pathogenesis and a potential benefit of early administration of antiviral treatment. IMPORTANCE Global temporal quantitative proteomic and transcriptomic analysis using long-term hepatitis B virus (HBV)-infected primary human hepatocytes uncovered extensive remodeling of the host proteome and transcriptome and revealed cytopathic effects of long-term viral replication. Metabolic-, complement-, cytoskeleton-, mitochondrial-, and oxidation-related pathways were modulated at transcriptional or posttranscriptional levels, which could be partially rescued by early, rather than late, NA therapy and could be relieved by blocking viral antigens with RNAi. Overexpression screening identified a series of pro- or anti-HBV host factors. These data have deepened the understanding of the mechanisms of viral pathogenesis and HBV-host interactions in hepatocytes, with implications for therapeutic intervention.
PXD024609	35171663	2.4-Aa structure of the double-ring Gemmatimonas phototrophica photosystem. 	LC-MS/MS of the reaction center-light harvesting 1 complex from Gemmatimonas phototrophica	Gemmatimonadetes, Gemmatimonas phototrophica, photosynthesis, reaction center light-harvesting-1 complex	Phototrophic Gemmatimonadetes evolved the ability to use solar energy following horizontal transfer of photosynthesis-related genes from an ancient phototrophic proteobacterium. The electron cryo-microscopy structure of the Gemmatimonas phototrophica photosystem at 2.4 Aa reveals a unique, double-ring complex. Two unique membrane-extrinsic polypeptides, RC-S and RC-U, hold the central type 2 reaction center (RC) within an inner 16-subunit light-harvesting 1 (LH1) ring, which is encircled by an outer 24-subunit antenna ring (LHh) that adds light-gathering capacity. Femtosecond kinetics reveal the flow of energy within the RC-dLH complex, from the outer LHh ring to LH1 and then to the RC. This structural and functional study shows that G. phototrophica has independently evolved its own compact, robust, and highly effective architecture for harvesting and trapping solar energy.
PXD022792	35171682	Systemic inflammation and metabolic disturbances underlie inpatient mortality among ill children with severe malnutrition. 	Systemic inflammation and metabolic disturbances are central pathways related to mortality of ill severely malnourished children	Severe malnutrition, children., mortality	Children admitted to hospital with an acute illness and concurrent severe malnutrition [complicated severe malnutrition (CSM)] have a high risk of dying. The biological processes underlying their mortality are poorly understood. In this case-control study nested within a multicenter randomized controlled trial among children with CSM in Kenya and Malawi, we found that blood metabolomic and proteomic profiles robustly differentiated children who died (n = 92) from those who survived (n = 92). Fatalities were characterized by increased energetic substrates (tricarboxylic acid cycle metabolites), microbial metabolites (e.g., propionate and isobutyrate), acute phase proteins (e.g., calprotectin and C-reactive protein), and inflammatory markers (e.g., interleukin-8 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha). These perturbations indicated disruptions in mitochondria-related bioenergetic pathways and sepsis-like responses. This study identified specific biomolecular disturbances associated with CSM mortality, revealing that systemic inflammation and bioenergetic deficits are targetable pathophysiological processes for improving survival of this vulnerable population.
PXD022413	35171715	Rab21 in enterocytes participates in intestinal epithelium maintenance. 	An early endosomal network participates to enterocyte functions and intestinal  homeostasis	Drosophila, Rab21, TMT, intestine	Membrane trafficking is defined as the vesicular transport of proteins into, out of, and throughout the cell. In intestinal enterocytes, defects in endocytic/recycling pathways result in impaired function and are linked to diseases. However, how these trafficking pathways regulate intestinal tissue homeostasis is poorly understood. Using the Drosophila intestine as an in vivo system, we investigated enterocyte-specific functions for the early endosomal machinery. We focused on Rab21, which regulates specific steps in early endosomal trafficking. Depletion of Rab21 in enterocytes led to abnormalities in intestinal morphology, with deregulated cellular equilibrium associated with a gain in mitotic cells and increased cell death. Increases in apoptosis and Yorkie signaling were responsible for compensatory proliferation and tissue inflammation. Using an RNA interference screen, we identified regulators of autophagy and membrane trafficking that phenocopied Rab21 knockdown. We further showed that Rab21 knockdown-induced hyperplasia was rescued by inhibition of epidermal growth factor receptor signaling. Moreover, quantitative proteomics identified proteins affected by Rab21 depletion. Of these, we validated changes in apolipoprotein ApoLpp and the trehalose transporter Tret1-1, indicating roles for enterocyte Rab21 in lipid and carbohydrate homeostasis, respectively. Our data shed light on an important role for early endosomal trafficking, and Rab21, in enterocyte-mediated intestinal epithelium maintenance.
PXD029576	35172013	Proteomics Indicates Lactate Dehydrogenase Is Prognostic in Acetaminophen-Induced Acute Liver Failure Patients and Reveals Altered Signaling Pathways. 	Proteomics Indicates Lactate Dehydrogenase is Prognostic in Acetaminophen-induced Acute Liver Failure Patients and Reveals a Role for LKB1-AMPK Signaling	Drug-induced liver injury, acute liver injury, biomarkers, liver regeneration	Better biomarkers to predict death early in acute liver failure (ALF) are needed. To that end, we obtained early (study day 1) and later (day 3) serum samples from transplant-free survivors (n = 28) and nonsurvivors (n = 30) of acetaminophen-induced ALF from the NIH-sponsored Acute Liver Failure Study Group and from control volunteers (n = 10). To identify proteins that increase early in serum during ALF, we selected individuals from this cohort for whom alanine aminotransferase was lower on day 1 than day 3, indicating a time point before peak injury (n = 10/group). We then performed untargeted proteomics on their day 1 samples. Out of 1682 quantifiable proteins, 361 were >= 4-fold elevated or decreased in ALF patients versus controls and 16 of those were further elevated or decreased >= 4-fold in nonsurvivors versus survivors, indicating potential to predict death. Interestingly, 1 of the biomarkers was lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), which is already measured in most clinical laboratories. To validate our proteomics results and to confirm the prognostic potential of LDH, we measured LDH activity in all day 1 and 3 samples from all 58 ALF patients. LDH was elevated in the nonsurvivors versus survivors on both days. In addition, it had prognostic value similar to the model for end-stage liver disease and outperformed the King's College Criteria, while a combination of model for end-stage liver disease and LDH together outperformed either alone. Finally, bioinformatics analysis of our proteomics data revealed alteration of numerous signaling pathways that may be important in liver regeneration. Overall, we conclude LDH can predict death in APAP-induced ALF.
PXD025437	35173350	Panoramix SUMOylation on chromatin connects the piRNA pathway to the cellular heterochromatin machinery. 	Panoramix SUMOylation at chromatin recruits the heterochromatin machinery to piRNA target loci	Drosophila, LxxLL, Panx, SUMO, Sov, heterochromatin, piRNA	Nuclear Argonaute proteins, guided by small RNAs, mediate sequence-specific heterochromatin formation. The molecular principles that link Argonaute-small RNA complexes to cellular heterochromatin effectors on binding to nascent target RNAs are poorly understood. Here, we explain the mechanism by which the PIWI-interacting RNA (piRNA) pathway connects to the heterochromatin machinery in Drosophila. We find that Panoramix, a corepressor required for piRNA-guided heterochromatin formation, is SUMOylated on chromatin in a Piwi-dependent manner. SUMOylation, together with an amphipathic LxxLL motif in Panoramix's intrinsically disordered repressor domain, are necessary and sufficient to recruit Small ovary (Sov), a multi-zinc-finger protein essential for general heterochromatin formation and viability. Structure-guided mutations that eliminate the Panoramix-Sov interaction or that prevent SUMOylation of Panoramix uncouple Sov from the piRNA pathway, resulting in viable but sterile flies in which Piwi-targeted transposons are derepressed. Thus, Piwi engages the heterochromatin machinery specifically at transposon loci by coupling recruitment of a corepressor to nascent transcripts with its SUMOylation.
PXD027528	35173759	Hypoxia Induced Sex-Difference in Zebrafish Brain Proteome Profile Reveals the Crucial Role of H3K9me3 in Recovery From Acute Hypoxia. 	Hypoxia induced sex-difference in zebrafish brain proteome profile reveals the crucial role of H3K9me3 in recovery from acute hypoxia	Hypoxia-Ischemia recovery, IPA, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, iTRAQ, pathway analysis, sex difference	Understanding the molecular basis of sex differences in neural response to acute hypoxic insult has profound implications for the effective prevention and treatment of ischemic stroke. Global hypoxic-ischemic induced neural damage has been studied recently under well-controlled, non-invasive, reproducible conditions using a zebrafish model. Our earlier report on sex difference in global acute hypoxia-induced neural damage and recovery in zebrafish prompted us to conduct a comprehensive study on the mechanisms underlying the recovery. An omics approach for studying quantitative changes in brain proteome upon hypoxia insult following recovery was undertaken using iTRAQ-based LC-MS/MS approach. The results shed light on the altered expression of many regulatory proteins in the zebrafish brain upon acute hypoxia following recovery. The sex difference in differentially expressed proteins along with the proteins expressed in a uniform direction in both the sexes was studied. Core expression analysis by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) showed a distinct sex difference in the disease function heatmap. Most of the upstream regulators obtained through IPA were validated at the transcriptional level. Translational upregulation of H3K9me3 in males led us to elucidate the mechanism of recovery by confirming transcriptional targets through ChIP-qPCR. The upregulation of H3K9me3 level in males at 4 h post-hypoxia appears to affect the early neurogenic markers nestin, klf4, and sox2, which might explain the late recovery in males, compared to females. Acute hypoxia-induced sex-specific comparison of brain proteome led us to reveal many differentially expressed proteins, which can be further studied for the development of novel targets for better therapeutic strategy.
PXD015127	35174215	6-Shogaol Inhibits Oxidative Stress-Induced Rat Vascular Smooth Muscle Cell Apoptosis by Regulating OXR1-p53 Axis. 	6-Shogaol Inhibits Oxidative Stress-induced Rat Vascular Smooth Muscle Cell Apoptosis by Regulating OXR1-p53 axis	6-shogaol, Rat, Vascular Smooth Muscle Cell	Apoptosis of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) is closely related to the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases, and oxidative stress is an important cause of VSMCs' death. Inhibiting VSMCs apoptosis is an effective preventive strategy in slowing down the development of cardiovascular disease, especially for atherosclerosis. In this study, we found that oxidation resistance protein 1 (OXR1), a crucial participator for responding to oxidative stress, could modulate the expression of p53, the key regulator of cell apoptosis. Our results revealed that oxidative stress promoted VSMCs apoptosis by overexpression of the OXR1-p53 axis, and 6-shogaol (6S), a major biologically active compound in ginger, could effectively attenuate cell death by preventing the upregulated expression of the OXR1-p53 axis. Quantitative proteomics analysis revealed that the degradation of p53 mediated by OXR1 might be related to the enhanced assembly of SCF ubiquitin ligase complexes, which is reported to closely relate to the modification of ubiquitination or neddylation and subsequent degradation of p53.
PXD020092	35174975	A clinically compatible drug-screening platform based on organotypic cultures identifies vulnerabilities to prevent and treat brain metastasis. 	Identification of brain metastasis vulnerabilities using METPlatform	brain metastasis, in situ proteomics, metplatform	We report a medium-throughput drug-screening platform (METPlatform) based on organotypic cultures that allows to evaluate inhibitors against metastases growing in situ. By applying this approach to the unmet clinical need of brain metastasis, we identified several vulnerabilities. Among them, a blood-brain barrier permeable HSP90 inhibitor showed high potency against mouse and human brain metastases at clinically relevant stages of the disease, including a novel model of local relapse after neurosurgery. Furthermore, in situ proteomic analysis applied to metastases treated with the chaperone inhibitor uncovered a novel molecular program in brain metastasis, which includes biomarkers of poor prognosis and actionable mechanisms of resistance. Our work validates METPlatform as a potent resource for metastasis research integrating drug-screening and unbiased omic approaches that is compatible with human samples. Thus, this clinically relevant strategy is aimed to personalize the management of metastatic disease in the brain and elsewhere.
PXD023291	35175539	HIV-1 and methamphetamine alter galectins -1, -3, and -9 in human monocyte-derived macrophages. 	SWATH-MS and MRM: Quantification of Ras-related proteins in HIV-1 Infected and Methamphetamine-Exposed Human Monocyte-Derived Macrophages (hMDM)	HIV, Ras-related proteis (Rab), SWATH, actin, macrophages, methamphetamine	Macrophages are key elements of the innate immune system. Their HIV-1 infection is a complex process that involves multiple interacting factors and various steps and is further altered by exposure of infected cells to methamphetamine (Meth), a common drug of abuse in people living with HIV. This is reflected by dynamic changes in the intracellular and secreted proteomes of these cells. Quantification of these changes poses a challenge for experimental design and associated analytics. In this study, we measured the effect of Meth on expression of intracellular and secreted galectins-1, -3, and -9 in HIV-1 infected human monocyte-derived macrophages (hMDM) using SWATH-MS, which was further followed by MRM targeted mass spectrometry validation. Cells were exposed to Meth either prior to or after infection. Our results are the first to perform comprehensive quantifications of galectins in primary hMDM cells during HIV-1 infection and Meth exposure a building foundation for future studies on the molecular mechanisms underlying cellular pathology of hMDM resulting from viral infection and a drug of abuse-Meth.
PXD031227	35177537	Reconstitution of 3' end processing of mammalian pre-mRNA reveals a central role of RBBP6. 	Reconstitution of 3'-processing of mammalian pre-mRNA reveals a central role of RBBP6	3'-processing, CPSF, RBBP6, XL-MS	The 3' ends of almost all eukaryotic mRNAs are generated in an essential two-step processing reaction: endonucleolytic cleavage of an extended precursor followed by the addition of a poly(A) tail. By reconstituting the reaction from overproduced and purified proteins, we provide a minimal list of 14 polypeptides that are essential and two that are stimulatory for RNA processing. In a reaction depending on the polyadenylation signal AAUAAA, the reconstituted system cleaves pre-mRNA at a single preferred site corresponding to the one used in vivo. Among the proteins, cleavage factor I stimulates cleavage but is not essential, consistent with its prominent role in alternative polyadenylation. RBBP6 is required, with structural data showing it to contact and presumably activate the endonuclease CPSF73 through its DWNN domain. The C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II is dispensable. ATP, but not its hydrolysis, supports RNA cleavage by binding to the hClp1 subunit of cleavage factor II with submicromolar affinity.
PXD029164	35177693	Extracellular degradation of a polyurethane oligomer involving outer membrane vesicles and further insights on the degradation of 2,4-diaminotoluene in Pseudomonas capeferrum TDA1. 	Towards biorecycling of polyurethanes: Strategies of Pseudomonas capeferrum TDA1 for extra- and intracellular degradation	Outer membrane vesicles, Pseudomonas, polyurethane degradation	The continuing reports of plastic pollution in various ecosystems highlight the threat posed by the ever-increasing consumption of synthetic polymers. Therefore, Pseudomonas capeferrum TDA1, a strain recently isolated from a plastic dump site, was examined further regarding its ability to degrade polyurethane (PU) compounds. The previously reported degradation pathway for 2,4-toluene diamine, a precursor and degradation intermediate of PU, could be confirmed by RNA-seq in this organism. In addition, different cell fractions of cells grown on a PU oligomer were tested for extracellular hydrolytic activity using a standard assay. Strikingly, purified outer membrane vesicles (OMV) of P. capeferrum TDA1 grown on a PU oligomer showed higher esterase activity than cell pellets. Hydrolases in the OMV fraction possibly involved in extracellular PU degradation were identified by mass spectrometry. On this basis, we propose a model for extracellular degradation of polyester-based PUs by P. capeferrum TDA1 involving the role of OMVs in synthetic polymer degradation.
PXD029297	35178156	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals the Role of Lysine 2-Hydroxyisobutyrylation Pathway Mediated by Tip60. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveals the role of Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation Pathway mediated by Tip60	Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation, Posttranslational modification, Quantitative Proteomics, Tip60, substrate	Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib) is a new type of posttranslational modifications (PTMs) extensively reported on eukaryotic cell histones. It is evolutionarily conserved and participates in diverse important biological processes, such as transcription and cell metabolism. Recently, it has been demonstrated that Khib can be regulated by p300 and Tip60. Although the specific Khib substrates mediated by p300 have been revealed, how Tip60 regulates diverse cellular processes through the Khib pathway and the different roles between Tip60 and p300 in regulating Khib remain largely unknown, which prevents us from understanding how this modification executes its biological functions. In this study, we report the first Khib proteome mediated by Tip60. In total, 3502 unique Khib sites from 1050 proteins were identified. Among them, 536 Khib sites from 406 proteins were present only in Tip60 overexpressing cells and 13 Khib sites increased more than 2-fold in response to Tip60 overexpression, indicating that Tip60 significantly affected global Khib. Notably, only 5 of the 549 Tip60-targeted Khib sites overlapped with the 149 known Khib sites targeted by p300, indicating the different Khib substrate preferences of Tip60 and p300. In addition, the Khib substrates regulated by Tip60 are deeply involved in processes such as nucleic acid metabolism and translation, and some are associated with Parkinson's and Prion diseases. In summary, our research reveals the Khib substrates targeted by Tip60, which elucidates the effect of Tip60 in regulating various cellular processes through the Khib pathway, and proposes novel views into the functional mechanism of Tip60.
PXD019619	35178376	A Proteomic Platform Enables to Test for AML Normalization In Vitro. 	Development of novel combination treatments in AML guided by proteomics profiling	AML, APL, arsenic trioxide, cancer, differentiation, metal, normalization, plecstatin-1, ruthenium	Acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) can be cured by the co-administration of arsenic trioxide (ATO) and all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA). These small molecules relieve the differentiation blockade of the transformed promyelocytes and trigger their maturation into functional neutrophils, which are physiologically primed for apoptosis. This normalization therapy represents a compelling alternative to cytotoxic anticancer chemotherapy, but lacks an in vitro model system for testing the efficiency of novel combination treatments consisting of inducers of differentiation and metallopharmaceuticals. Here, using proteome profiling we present an experimental framework that enables characterising the differentiation- and metal-specific effects of the combination treatment in a panel of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) cell lines (HL-60 and U937), including APL (NB4). Differentiation had a substantial impact on the proteome on the order of 10% of the identified proteins and featured classical markers and transcription factors of myeloid differentiation. Additionally, ATO provoked specific cytoprotective effects in the AML cell lines HL-60 and U937. In HL-60, these effects included an integrated stress response (ISR) in conjunction with redox defence, while proteasomal responses and a metabolic rewiring were observed in U937 cells. In contrast, the APL cell line NB4 did not display such adaptions indicating a lack of plasticity to cope with the metal-induced stress, which may explain the clinical success of this combination treatment. Based on the induction of these cytoprotective effects, we proposed a novel metal-based compound to be used for the combination treatment instead of ATO. The organoruthenium drug candidate plecstatin-1 was previously shown to induce reactive oxygen species and an ISR. Indeed, the plecstatin-1 combination was found to affect similar pathways compared to the ATO combination in HL-60 cells and did not lead to cytoprotective response signatures in NB4. Moreover, the monocytic cell line U937 showed a low plasticity to cope with the plecstatin-1 combination, which suggests that this combination might achieve therapeutic benefit beyond APL. We propose that the cytoprotective plasticity of cancer cells might serve as a general proxy to discover novel combination treatments in vitro.
PXD027280	35178545	Notch signaling enhances bone regeneration in the zebrafish mandible. 	Notch Signaling Enhances Bone Regeneration in the Zebrafish Mandible	FASP, Notch signaling, Q Exactive HF, bone, chondrocytes, mandible, zebrafish	Loss or damage to the mandible caused by trauma, treatment of oral malignancies, and other diseases is treated using bone-grafting techniques that suffer from numerous shortcomings and contraindications. Zebrafish naturally heal large injuries to mandibular bone, offering an opportunity to understand how to boost intrinsic healing potential. Using a novel her6:mCherry Notch reporter, we show that canonical Notch signaling is induced during the initial stages of cartilage callus formation in both mesenchymal cells and chondrocytes following surgical mandibulectomy. We also show that modulation of Notch signaling during the initial post-operative period results in lasting changes to regenerate bone quantity one month later. Pharmacological inhibition of Notch signaling reduces the size of the cartilage callus and delays its conversion into bone, resulting in non-union. Conversely, conditional transgenic activation of Notch signaling accelerates conversion of the cartilage callus into bone, improving bone healing. Given the conserved functions of this pathway in bone repair across vertebrates, we propose that targeted activation of Notch signaling during the early phases of bone healing in mammals may both augment the size of the initial callus and boost its ossification into reparative bone.
PXD032065	35179202	Constitutive nuclear accumulation of endogenous alpha-synuclein in mice causes motor impairment and cortical dysfunction, independent of protein aggregation. 	Constitutive nuclear accumulation of endogenous alpha-synuclein in mice causes motor impairment and cortical dysfunction, independent of protein aggregation.	LC-MS, TMT10plex, brain, cortex	A growing body of evidence suggests that nuclear alpha-synuclein (alphaSyn) plays a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). However, this question has been difficult to address as controlling the localization of alphaSyn in experimental systems often requires protein overexpression, which affects its aggregation propensity. To overcome this, we engineered SncaNLS mice, which localize endogenous alphaSyn to the nucleus. We characterized these mice on a behavioral, histological and biochemical level to determine whether the increase of nuclear alphaSyn is sufficient to elicit PD-like phenotypes. SncaNLS mice exhibit age-dependent motor deficits and altered gastrointestinal function. We found that these phenotypes were not linked to alphaSyn aggregation or phosphorylation. Through histological analyses, we observed motor cortex atrophy in the absence of midbrain dopaminergic neurodegeneration. We sampled cortical proteomes of SncaNLS mice and controls to determine the molecular underpinnings of these pathologies. Interestingly, we found several dysregulated proteins involved in dopaminergic signaling, including Darpp32, Pde10a and Gng7, which we further confirmed was decreased in cortical samples of the SncaNLS mice compared with controls. These results suggest that chronic endogenous nuclear alphaSyn can elicit toxic phenotypes in mice, independent of its aggregation. This model raises key questions related to the mechanism of alphaSyn toxicity in PD and provides a new model to study an underappreciated aspect of PD pathogenesis.
PXD017775	35179492	The m(6)A reader YTHDF2 is a negative regulator for dendrite development and maintenance of retinal ganglion cells. 	proteome analysis using mass spectrometry (MS) in acute shYthdf2-mediated knockdown of cultured RGCs	Knockdown, Retina, Ythdf2	The precise control of growth and maintenance of the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) dendrite arborization is critical for normal visual functions in mammals. However, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we find that the N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) reader YTHDF2 is highly expressed in the mouse RGCs. Conditional knockout (cKO) of Ythdf2 in the retina leads to increased RGC dendrite branching, resulting in more synapses in the inner plexiform layer. Interestingly, the Ythdf2 cKO mice show improved visual acuity compared with control mice. We further demonstrate that Ythdf2 cKO in the retina protects RGCs from dendrite degeneration caused by the experimental acute glaucoma model. We identify the m(6)A-modified YTHDF2 target transcripts which mediate these effects. This study reveals mechanisms by which YTHDF2 restricts RGC dendrite development and maintenance. YTHDF2 and its target mRNAs might be valuable in developing new treatment approaches for glaucomatous eyes.
PXD022499	35180840	Quantitative multiplexed proteomics analysis reveals reshaping of the lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylome in Fusarium graminearum by tebuconazole. 	Proteomic analyses of lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation in Fusarium graminearum in response to tebuconazole and carbendazim	2-hydroxyisobutyrylation, Fusarium graminearum, carbendazim, tebuconazole	BACKGROUNDS: Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib) is a newly discovered posttranslational modification (PTM) and has been identified in several prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms. Fusarium graminearum, a major pathogen of Fusarium head blight (FHB) in cereal crops, can cause considerable yield loss and produce various mycotoxins that threaten human health. The application of chemical fungicides such as tebuconazole (TEC) remains the major method to control this pathogen. However, the distribution of Khib in F. graminearum and whether Khib is remodified in response to fungicide stress remain unknown. RESULTS: Here, we carried out a proteome-wide analysis of Khib in F. graminearum, identifying the reshaping of the lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylome by tebuconazole, using the most recently developed high-resolution LC-MS/MS technique in combination with high-specific affinity enrichment. Specifically, 3501 Khib sites on 1049 proteins were identified, and 1083 Khib sites on 556 modified proteins normalized to the total protein content were changed significantly after TEC treatment. Bioinformatics analysis showed that Khib proteins are involved in a wide range of biological processes and may be involved in virulence and deoxynivalenol (DON) production, as well as sterol biosynthesis, in F. graminearum. CONCLUSIONS: Here, we provided a wealth of resources for further study of the roles of Khib in the fungicide resistance of F. graminearum. The results enhanced our understanding of this PTM in filamentous ascomycete fungi and provided insight into the remodification of Khib sites during azole fungicide challenge in F. graminearum.
PXD031088	35181339	Fatty acid transport protein 2 interacts with ceramide synthase 2 to promote ceramide synthesis. 	Fatty acid transport protein 2 interacts with ceramide synthase 2 to regulate ceramide synthesis	Ceramide, ceramide synthase, dihydroceramide, fatty acid transport protein, sphingolipids	Dihydroceramide is a lipid molecule generated via the action of (dihydro)ceramide synthases (CerSs), which use two substrates, namely sphinganine and fatty acyl-CoAs. Sphinganine is generated via the sequential activity of two integral membrane proteins located in the endoplasmic reticulum. Less is known about the source of the fatty acyl-CoAs, although a number of cytosolic proteins in the pathways of acyl-CoA generation modulate ceramide synthesis via direct or indirect interaction with the CerSs. In this study, we demonstrate, by proteomic analysis of immunoprecipitated proteins, that fatty acid transporter protein 2 (FATP2) (also known as very long-chain acyl-CoA synthetase) directly interacts with CerS2 in mouse liver. Studies in cultured cells demonstrated that other members of the FATP family can also interact with CerS2, with the interaction dependent on both proteins being catalytically active. In addition, transfection of cells with FATP1, FATP2, or FATP4 increased ceramide levels although only FATP2 and 4 increased dihydroceramide levels, consistent with their known intracellular locations. Finally, we show that lipofermata, an FATP2 inhibitor which is believed to directly impact tumor cell growth via modulation of FATP2, decreased de novo dihydroceramide synthesis, suggesting that some of the proposed therapeutic effects of lipofermata may be mediated via (dihydro)ceramide rather than directly via acyl-CoA generation. In summary, our study reinforces the idea that manipulating the pathway of fatty acyl-CoA generation will impact a wide variety of down-stream lipids, not least the sphingolipids, which utilize two acyl-CoA moieties in the initial steps of their synthesis.
PXD026379	35181730	Regulated cell death joins in atherosclerotic plaque silent progression. 	Alteration of DAMPs and regulated cell death under hyperlipidemic stress	DAMPs, regulated cell death	Non-apoptotic regulated cell death (ferroptosis and necroptosis) leads to the release of damage-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), which initiate and perpetuate a non-infectious inflammatory response. We hypothesize that DAMPs and non-apoptotic regulated cell death are critical players of atherosclerotic plaque progression with inadequate response to lipid-lowering treatment. We aimed to uncover the silent mechanisms that govern the existing residual risk of cardiovascular-related mortality in experimental atherosclerosis. Proteomic and genomic approaches were applied on the ascending aorta of hyperlipidemic rabbits and controls with and without lipid-lowering treatment. The hyperlipidemic animals, which presented numerous heterogeneous atherosclerotic lesions, exhibited high concentrations of serum lipids and increased lipid peroxidation oxidative stress markers. The analyses revealed the significant upregulation of DAMPs and proteins implicated in ferroptosis and necroptosis by hyperlipidemia. Some of them did not respond to lipid-lowering treatment. Dysregulation of five proteins involved in non-apoptotic regulated cell death proteins (VDAC1, VDAC3, FTL, TF and PCBP1) and nine associated DAMPs (HSP90AA1, HSP90AB1, ANXA1, LGALS3, HSP90B1, S100A11, FN, CALR, H3-3A) was not corrected by the treatment. These proteins could play a key role in the atherosclerotic silent evolution and may possess an unexplored therapeutic potential. Mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD026379.
PXD029351	35182267	Deficiency of Parkinson's Related Protein DJ-1 Alters Cdk5 Signalling and Induces Neuronal Death by Aberrant Cell Cycle Re-entry. 	Deficiency of Parkinson´s related protein DJ-1 alters Cdk5 signaling and induces neuronal death by aberrant cell cycle re-entry.	Human Proteome Project, LCMSMS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), dj1 knockouts, mice, neurons	DJ-1 is a multifunctional protein involved in Parkinson disease (PD) that can act as antioxidant, molecular chaperone, protease, glyoxalase, and transcriptional regulator. However, the exact mechanism by which DJ-1 dysfunction contributes to development of Parkinson's disease remains elusive. Here, using a comparative proteomic analysis between wild-type cortical neurons and neurons lacking DJ-1 (data available via ProteomeXchange, identifier PXD029351), we show that this protein is involved in cell cycle checkpoints disruption. We detect increased amount of p-tau and alpha-synuclein proteins, altered phosphoinositide-3-kinase/protein kinase B (PI3K/AKT) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signalling pathways, and deregulation of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5). Cdk5 is normally involved in dendritic growth, axon formation, and the establishment of synapses, but can also contribute to cell cycle progression in pathological conditions. In addition, we observed a decrease in proteasomal activity, probably due to tau phosphorylation that can also lead to activation of mitogenic signalling pathways. Taken together, our findings indicate, for the first time, that aborted cell cycle re-entry could be at the onset of DJ-1-associated PD. Therefore, new approaches targeting cell cycle re-entry can be envisaged to improve current therapeutic strategies.
PXD026758	35182477	Systematic mapping of nuclear domain-associated transcripts reveals speckles and lamina as hubs of functionally distinct retained introns. 	RasimBarutcu_MingkunWu_et_al_APEX_2021	APEX, Lamina, Nuclear bodies, Nuclear domains, Proximity-dependent biotinylation, RNA, Retained introns, Speckles	The nucleus is highly compartmentalized through the formation of distinct classes of membraneless domains. However, the composition and function of many of these structures are not well understood. Using APEX2-mediated proximity labeling and RNA sequencing, we surveyed human transcripts associated with nuclear speckles, several additional domains, and the lamina. Remarkably, speckles and lamina are associated with distinct classes of retained introns enriched in genes that function in RNA processing, translation, and the cell cycle, among other processes. In contrast to the lamina-proximal introns, retained introns associated with speckles are relatively short, GC-rich, and enriched for functional sites of RNA-binding proteins that are concentrated in these domains. They are also highly differentially regulated across diverse cellular contexts, including the cell cycle. Thus, our study provides a resource of nuclear domain-associated transcripts and further reveals speckles and lamina as hubs of distinct populations of retained introns linked to gene regulation and cell cycle progression.
PXD030652	35182544	Knockdown of Podocalyxin Post-Transcriptionally Induces the Expression and Activity of ABCB1/MDR1 in Human Brain Microvascular Endothelial Cells. 	Brain microvascular endothelial cells: PODXL KD	Blood-brain barrier, SWATH, podocalyxin	Podocalyxin (PODXL) is a highly sialylated transmembrane protein that is expressed on the luminal membrane of brain microvascular endothelial cells. To clarify the role of PODXL in the blood-brain barrier (BBB), the present study aimed to investigate the effect of PODXL-knockdown on protein expression, especially the expression of ABCB1/MDR1, in human microvascular endothelial cells (hCMEC/D3). By quantitative proteomics, gene ontology enrichment with differentially expressed proteins showed that PODXL-knockdown influenced the immune response and intracellular trafficking. Among transporters, the protein expression of ABCB1/MDR1 and ABCG2/BCRP was significantly elevated by approximately 2-fold in the PODXL-knockdown cells. In the knockdown cells, the efflux activity of ABCB1/MDR1 was significantly increased, while its mRNA expression was not significantly different from that of the control cells. As receptors and tight junction proteins, levels of low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 and occludin were significantly increased, while those of transferrin receptor and claudin-11 were significantly decreased in the knockdown cells. The present results suggest that PODXL functions as a modulator of BBB function, including transport, tight junctions, and immune responses. Furthermore, PODXL post-transcriptionally regulates the protein expression and efflux activity of ABCB1/MDR1 at the BBB, which may affect drug distribution in the brain.
PXD030550	35182768	Characterization of Glycoproteoforms of Integrins alpha2 and beta1 in Megakaryocytes in the Occurrence of JAK2V617F Mutation-Induced Primary Myelofibrosis. 	Glycoproteoforms of Integrins alpha2 and beta1 in Megakaryocytes in the Occurrence of Primary Myelofibrosis	Integrins, glycopeptiforms, megakaryocytes, primary myelofibrosis	Primary myelofibrosis (PMF) is a neoplasm prone to leukemic transformation, for which limited treatment is available. Among individuals diagnosed with PMF, the most prevalent mutation is the JAK2V617F somatic point mutation that activates the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) enzyme. Our earlier reports on hyperactivity of beta1 integrin and enhanced adhesion activity of the alpha2beta1 complex in JAK2V617F megakaryocytes (MKs) led us to examine the new hypothesis that this mutation leads to posttranslational modification via changes in glycosylation. Samples were derived from immunoprecipitation of MKs obtained from Vav1-hJAK2(V617F) and WT mice. Immunoprecipitated fractions were separated by SDS-PAGE and analyzed using LC-MS/MS techniques in a bottom-up glycoproteomics workflow. In the immunoprecipitate, glycopeptiforms corresponding to 11 out of the 12 potential N-glycosylation sites of integrin beta1 and to all nine potential glycosylation sites of integrin alpha2 were observed. Glycopeptiforms were compared across WT and JAK2V617F phenotypes for both integrins. The overall trend observed is that JAK2V617F mutation in PMF MKs leads to changes in beta1 glycosylation; in most cases, it results in an increase in the integrated area of glycopeptiforms. We also observed that in mutated MKs, changes in integrin alpha2 glycosylation were more substantial than those observed for integrin beta1 glycosylation, a finding that suggests that altered integrin alpha2 glycosylation may also affect activation. Additionally, the identification of proteins associated to the cytoskeleton that were co-immunoprecipitated with integrins alpha2 and beta1 demonstrated the potential of the methodology employed in this study to provide some insight, at the peptide level, into the consequences of integrin activation in MKs. The extensive and detailed glycosylation patterns we uncovered provide a basis for future functional studies of each site in control cells as compared to JAK2V617F-mutated cells. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD030550.
PXD027957	35182769	Multiple Reaction Monitoring-Mass Spectrometry Enables Robust Quantitation of Plasma Proteins Regardless of Whole Blood Processing Delays That May Occur in the Clinic. 	Whole blood peptide assay stability by MRM-MS	MRM, internal standards, plasma, whole blood	Plasma is an important biofluid for clinical research and diagnostics. In the clinic, unpredictable delays-from minutes to hours-between blood collection and plasma generation are often unavoidable. These delays can potentially lead to protein degradation and modification and might considerably affect intact protein measurement methods such as sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays that bind proteins on two epitopes to increase specificity, thus requiring largely intact protein structures. Here, we investigated, using multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (MRM-MS), how delays in plasma processing affect peptide-centric "bottom-up" proteomics. We used validated assays for proteotypic peptide surrogates of 270 human proteins to analyze plasma generated after whole blood had been kept at room temperature from 0 to 40 h to mimic delays that occur in the clinic. Moreover, we evaluated the impact of different plasma-thawing conditions on MRM-based plasma protein quantitation. We demonstrate that >90% of protein concentration measurements were unaffected by the thawing procedure and by up to 40-h delayed plasma generation, reflected by relative standard deviations (RSDs) of <30%. Of the 159 MRM assays that yielded quantitative results in 60% of the measured time points, 139 enabled a stable protein quantitation (RSD <20%), 14 showed a slight variation (RSD 20-30%), and 6 appeared unstable/irreproducible (RSD > 30%). These results demonstrate the high robustness and thus the potential for MRM-based plasma-protein quantitation to be used in a clinical setting. In contrast to enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, peptide-based MRM assays do not require intact three-dimensional protein structures for an accurate and precise quantitation of protein concentrations in the original sample.
PXD028139	35183508	Nutrient-responsive O-GlcNAcylation dynamically modulates the secretion of glycan-binding protein galectin 3. 	Nutrient Responsive O-GlcNAcylation Dynamically Modulates Galectin 3 Secretion	Gal-3IP, Hela	Endomembrane glycosylation and cytoplasmic O-GlcNAcylation each play essential roles in nutrient sensing, and characteristic changes in glycan patterns have been described in disease states such as diabetes and cancer. These changes in glycosylation have important functional roles and can drive disease progression. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying how these signals are integrated and transduced into biological effects. Galectins are proteins that bind glycans and that are secreted by a poorly characterized nonclassical secretory mechanism. Once outside the cell, galectins bind to the terminal galactose residues of cell surface glycans and modulate numerous extracellular functions, such as clathrin-independent endocytosis (CIE). Originating in the cytoplasm, galectins are predicted substrates for O-GlcNAc addition and removal; and as we have shown, galectin 3 is a substrate for O-GlcNAc transferase. In this study, we also show that galectin 3 secretion is sensitive to changes in O-GlcNAc levels. We determined using immunoprecipitation and Western blotting that there is a significant difference in O-GlcNAcylation status between cytoplasmic and secreted galectin 3. We observed dramatic alterations in galectin 3 secretion in response to nutrient conditions, which were dependent on dynamic O-GlcNAcylation. Importantly, we showed that these O-GlcNAc-driven alterations in galectin 3 secretion also facilitated changes in CIE. These results indicate that dynamic O-GlcNAcylation of galectin 3 plays a role in modulating its secretion and can tune its function in transducing nutrient-sensing information coded in cell surface glycosylation into biological effects.
PXD026649	35183770	Precision Glycoproteomics Reveals Distinctive N-Glycosylation in Human Spermatozoa. 	Precision mapping of glycosite-specific glycans reveals distinctive N-glycosylation on human spermatozoa	Spermatozoa, glycan structures	Spermatozoon represents a very special cell type in human body, and glycosylation plays essential roles in its whole life including spermatogenesis, maturation, capacitation, sperm-egg recognition, and fertilization. In this study, by mapping the most comprehensive N-glycoproteome of human spermatozoa using our recently developed site-specific glycoproteomic approaches, we show that spermatozoa contain a number of distinctive glycoproteins, which are mainly involved in spermatogenesis, acrosome reaction and sperm:oocyte membrane binding, and fertilization. Heavy fucosylation is observed on 14 glycoproteins mostly located at extracellular and cell surface regions in spermatozoa but not in other tissues. Sialylation and Lewis epitopes are enriched in the biological process of immune response in spermatozoa, while bisected core structures and LacdiNAc structures are highly expressed in acrosome. These data deepen our knowledge about glycosylation in spermatozoa and lay the foundation for functional study of glycosylation and glycan structures in male infertility.
PXD019675	35184183	Circulating Proteome and Progression of Type 2 Diabetes. 	Gut microbiota may underlie the predisposition of healthy individuals to COVID-19	gut microbiota	CONTEXT: Circulating proteomes may provide intervention targets for type 2 diabetes (T2D). OBJECTIVE: We aimed to identify proteomic biomarkers associated with incident T2D and assess its joint effect with dietary or lifestyle factors on the T2D risk. METHODS: We established 2 nested case-control studies for incident T2D: discovery cohort (median 6.5 years of follow-up, 285 case-control pairs) and validation cohort (median 2.8 years of follow-up, 38 case-control pairs). We integrated untargeted mass spectrometry-based proteomics and interpretable machine learning to identify T2D-related proteomic biomarkers. We constructed a protein risk score (PRS) with the identified proteomic biomarkers and used a generalized estimating equation to evaluate PRS-T2D relationship with repeated profiled proteome. We evaluated association of PRS with trajectory of glycemic traits in another non-T2D cohort (n = 376). Multiplicative interactions of dietary or lifestyle factors with PRS were evaluated using logistic regression. RESULTS: Seven proteins (SHBG, CAND1, APOF, SELL, MIA3, CFH, IGHV1-2) were retained as the proteomic biomarkers for incident T2D. PRS (per SD change) was positively associated with incident T2D across 2 cohorts, with an odds ratio 1.29 (95% CI, 1.08-1.54) and 1.84 (1.19-2.84), respectively. Participants with a higher PRS had a higher probability showing unfavored glycemic trait trajectory in the non-T2D cohort. Red meat intake and PRS showed a multiplicative interaction on T2D risk in the discovery (P = 0.003) and validation cohort (P = 0.017). CONCLUSION: This study identified proteomic biomarkers for incident T2D among the Chinese populations. The higher intake of red meat may synergistically interact with the proteomic biomarkers to exaggerate the T2D risk.
PXD025491	35184419	Essential roles of exosome and circRNA_101093 on ferroptosis desensitization in lung adenocarcinoma. 	Circ101093 regulated proteins in Lung carcinoma (LUAD) cells.	A549 H1975, FABP3, Keywords: circular RNA, LUAD, cell line.	BACKGROUND: Resistance to ferroptosis, a regulated cell death caused by iron-dependent excessive accumulation of lipid peroxides, has recently been linked to lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Intracellular antioxidant systems are required for protection against ferroptosis. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether and how extracellular system desensitizes LUAD cells to ferroptosis. METHODS: Established human lung fibroblasts MRC-5, WI38, and human LUAD H1650, PC9, H1975, H358, A549, and H1299 cell lines, tumor and matched normal adjacent tissues of LUAD, and plasma from healthy individuals and LUAD patients were used in this study. Immunohistochemistry and immunoblotting were used to analyze protein expression, and quantitative reverse transcription-PCR was used to analyze mRNA expression. Cell viability, cell death, and the lipid reactive oxygen species generation were measured to evaluate the responses to ferroptosis. Exosomes were observed using transmission electron microscope. The localization of arachidonic acid (AA) was detected using click chemistry labeling followed by confocal microscopy. Interactions between RNAs and proteins were detected using RNA pull-down, RNA immunoprecipitation and photoactivatable ribonucleoside-enhanced crosslinking and immunoprecipitation methods. Proteomic analysis was used to investigate RNA-regulated proteins, and metabolomic analysis was performed to analyze metabolites. Cell-derived xenograft, patient-derived xenograft, cell-implanted intrapulmonary LUAD mouse models and plasma/tissue specimens from LUAD patients were used to validate the molecular mechanism. RESULTS: Plasma exosome from LUAD patients specifically reduced lipid peroxidation and desensitized LUAD cells to ferroptosis. A potential explanation is that exosomal circRNA_101093 (cir93) maintained an elevation in intracellular cir93 in LUAD to modulate AA, a poly-unsaturated fatty acid critical for ferroptosis-associated increased peroxidation in the plasma membrane. Mechanistically, cir93 interacted with and increased fatty acid-binding protein 3 (FABP3), which transported AA and facilitated its reaction with taurine. Thus, global AA was reduced, whereas N-arachidonoyl taurine (NAT, the product of AA and taurine) was induced. Notably, the role of NAT in suppressing AA incorporation into the plasma membrane was also revealed. In pre-clinical in vivo models, reducing exosome improved ferroptosis-based treatment. CONCLUSION: Exosome and cir93 are essential for desensitizing LUAD cells to ferroptosis, and blocking exosome may be helpful for future LUAD treatment.
PXD024932	35184559	Discovery and Visualization of Uncharacterized Drug-Protein Adducts Using Mass Spectrometry. 	Quantification of Raloxifene Specific 471 Da Adducts in CYP3A4 and P450-Reductase	Adduct, CYP3A4, Limelight, Magnum, Open Search, P450-Reductase, Raloxifene, Reactive Metabolite	Drugs are often metabolized to reactive intermediates that form protein adducts. Adducts can inhibit protein activity, elicit immune responses, and cause life-threatening adverse drug reactions. The masses of reactive metabolites are frequently unknown, rendering traditional mass spectrometry-based proteomics approaches incapable of adduct identification. Here, we present Magnum, an open-mass search algorithm optimized for adduct identification, and Limelight, a web-based data processing package for analysis and visualization of data from all existing algorithms. Limelight incorporates tools for sample comparisons and xenobiotic-adduct discovery. We validate our tools with three drug/protein combinations and apply our label-free workflow to identify novel xenobiotic-protein adducts in CYP3A4. Our new methods and software enable accurate identification of xenobiotic-protein adducts with no prior knowledge of adduct masses or protein targets. Magnum outperforms existing label-free tools in xenobiotic-protein adduct discovery, while Limelight fulfills a major need in the rapidly developing field of open-mass searching, which until now lacked comprehensive data visualization tools.
PXD030054	35185952	S-Nitrosation of E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Complex Components Regulates Hormonal Signalings in Arabidopsis. 	S-nitrosation of SCF E3 ligase components regulates hormonal signaling in Arabidopsis	S-nitrosation, hormonal signaling	E3 ubiquitin ligases mediate the last step of the ubiquitination pathway in the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). By targeting transcriptional regulators for their turnover, E3s play a crucial role in every aspect of plant biology. In plants, SKP1/CULLIN1/F-BOX PROTEIN (SCF)-type E3 ubiquitin ligases are essential for the perception and signaling of several key hormones including auxins and jasmonates (JAs). F-box proteins, TRANSPORT INHIBITOR RESPONSE 1 (TIR1) and CORONATINE INSENSITIVE 1 (COI1), bind directly transcriptional repressors AUXIN/INDOLE-3-ACETIC ACID (AUX/IAA) and JASMONATE ZIM-DOMAIN (JAZ) in auxin- and JAs-depending manner, respectively, which permits the perception of the hormones and transcriptional activation of signaling pathways. Redox modification of proteins mainly by S-nitrosation of cysteines (Cys) residues via nitric oxide (NO) has emerged as a valued regulatory mechanism in physiological processes requiring its rapid and versatile integration. Previously, we demonstrated that TIR1 and Arabidopsis thaliana SKP1 (ASK1) are targets of S-nitrosation, and these NO-dependent posttranslational modifications enhance protein-protein interactions and positively regulate SCF(TIR1) complex assembly and expression of auxin response genes. In this work, we confirmed S-nitrosation of Cys140 in TIR1, which was associated in planta to auxin-dependent developmental and stress-associated responses. In addition, we provide evidence on the modulation of the SCF(COI1) complex by different S-nitrosation events. We demonstrated that S-nitrosation of ASK1 Cys118 enhanced ASK1-COI1 protein-protein interaction. Overexpression of non-nitrosable ask1 mutant protein impaired the activation of JA-responsive genes mediated by SCF(COI1) illustrating the functional relevance of this redox-mediated regulation in planta. In silico analysis positions COI1 as a promising S-nitrosation target, and demonstrated that plants treated with methyl JA (MeJA) or S-nitrosocysteine (NO-Cys, S-nitrosation agent) develop shared responses at a genome-wide level. The regulation of SCF components involved in hormonal perception by S-nitrosation may represent a key strategy to determine the precise time and site-dependent activation of each hormonal signaling pathway and highlights NO as a pivotal molecular player in these scenarios.
PXD028820	35186009	Integrated Analysis of Transcriptome and Proteome to Reveal Pupal Color Switch in Papilio xuthus Butterflies. 	iTRAQ sequencing of the pupae of Papilio xuthus	pupal coloration	Pupal color polyphenism in Papilio butterflies, including green, intermediate, or brown, is an excellent study system for understanding phenotypic plasticity. Previous studies suggested that development of brown pupae may be controlled by a hormone called pupal-cuticle-melanizing-hormone (PCMH) which is synthesized and secreted from brain-suboesophageal ganglion and prothoracic ganglion complexes (Br-SG-TG1) during the pre-pupa stage. However, detailed molecular mechanisms of neuroendocrine regulation in pupal color development remain unknown. In this study, we integrated the expression profiles of transcriptome and proteome at pre-pupa stages [2 h after gut purge (T1) and 3 h after forming the garter around the body (T2)] and pigmentation stages [10 h after ecdysis (T3) and 24 h after ecdysis (T4)] to identify important genes and pathways underlying the development of green and brown pupa in the swallowtail butterfly Papilio xuthus. Combined comparisons of each developmental stage and each tissue under green and brown conditions, a total of 1042 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 430 different abundance proteins (DAPs) were identified. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and enrichment analysis indicate that these DEGs were mainly related to oxidation-reduction, structural constituent of cuticle, and pigment binding. Soft clustering by Mfuzz and enrichment analysis indicate that these DAPs are mainly involved in tyrosine metabolism, insect hormone biosynthesis, and melanogenesis. By homologous alignment, we further identified those genes encoding neuropeptides (51), GPCRs (116), G-proteins (8), cuticular proteins (226), chitinases (16), and chitin deacetylases (8) in the whole genome of P. xuthus and analyzed their expression profiles. Although we identified no gene satisfying with hypothesized expression profile of PCMH, we found some genes in the neuropeptide cascade showed differentially expressed under two pupal color conditions. We also found that Toll signaling pathway genes, juvenile hormone (JH) related genes, and multiple cuticular proteins play important roles in the formation of selective pupal colors during the prepupal-pupal transition. Our data also suggest that both green and brown pupa include complex pigment system that is regulated by genes involved in black, blue, and yellow pigments. Our results provide important insights into the evolution of pupal protective colors among swallowtail butterflies.
PXD027748	35188560	The transient Spt4-Spt5 complex as an upstream regulator of non-coding RNAs during development. 	The transient Spt4-Spt5 complex as an upstream regulator of non-coding RNAs during development	Spt4, interactomics, meiosis	The Spt4-Spt5 complex is conserved and essential RNA polymerase elongation factor. To investigate the role of the Spt4-Spt5 complex in non-coding transcription during development, we used the unicellular model Paramecium tetraurelia. In this organism harboring both germline and somatic nuclei, massive transcription of the entire germline genome takes place during meiosis. This phenomenon starts a series of events mediated by different classes of non-coding RNAs that control developmentally programmed DNA elimination. We focused our study on Spt4, a small zinc-finger protein encoded in P. tetraurelia by two genes expressed constitutively and two genes expressed during meiosis. SPT4 genes are not essential in vegetative growth, but they are indispensable for sexual reproduction, even though genes from both expression families show functional redundancy. Silencing of the SPT4 genes resulted in the absence of double-stranded ncRNAs and reduced levels of scnRNAs - 25 nt-long sRNAs produced from these double-stranded precursors in the germline nucleus. Moreover, we observed that the presence of a germline-specific Spt4-Spt5m complex is necessary for transfer of the scnRNA-binding PIWI protein between the germline and somatic nucleus. Our study establishes that Spt4, together with Spt5m, is essential for expression of the germline genome and necessary for developmental genome rearrangements.
PXD025631	35189333	The Acyl-Proteome of Syntrophus aciditrophicus Reveals Metabolic Relationships in Benzoate Degradation. 	The acyl-proteome of Syntrophus aciditrophicus reveals metabolic relationship with benzoate degradation	2D-PAGE, Lysine acetylation, Syntrophs, lysine acylation	Syntrophus aciditrophicus is a model syntrophic bacterium that degrades fatty and aromatic acids into acetate, CO2, formate, and H2 that are utilized by methanogens and other hydrogen-consuming microbes. S. aciditrophicus benzoate degradation proceeds by a multistep pathway with many intermediate reactive acyl-coenzyme A species (RACS) that can potentially N(epsilon)-acylate lysine residues. Herein, we describe the identification and characterization of acyl-lysine modifications that correspond to RACS in the benzoate degradation pathway. The amounts of modified peptides are sufficient to analyze the post-translational modifications without antibody enrichment, enabling a range of acylations located, presumably, on the most extensively acylated proteins throughout the proteome to be studied. Seven types of acyl modifications were identified, six of which correspond directly to RACS that are intermediates in the benzoate degradation pathway including 3-hydroxypimeloylation, a modification first identified in this system. Indeed, benzoate-degrading enzymes are heavily represented among the acylated proteins. A total of 125 sites were identified in 60 proteins. Functional deacylase enzymes are present in the proteome, indicating a potential regulatory system/mechanism by which S. aciditrophicus modulates acylation. Uniquely, N(epsilon)-acyl-lysine RACS are highly abundant in these syntrophic bacteria, raising the compelling possibility that post-translational modifications modulate benzoate degradation in this and potentially other, syntrophic bacteria. Our results outline candidates for further study of how acylations impact syntrophic consortia.
PXD012706	35191317	S-Nitrosoglutathione Reductase Deficiency Causes Aberrant Placental S-Nitrosylation and Preeclampsia. 	Changes in S-nitroslyaion in a mouse model of preeclampsia	Preeclampsia, S-nitrosylation, biotin switch, placenta	Background Preeclampsia, a leading cause of maternal and fetal mortality and morbidity, is characterized by an increase in S-nitrosylated proteins and reactive oxygen species, suggesting a pathophysiologic role for dysregulation in nitrosylation and nitrosative stress. Methods and Results Here, we show that mice lacking S-nitrosoglutathione reductase (GSNOR(-/-)), a denitrosylase regulating protein S-nitrosylation, exhibit a preeclampsia phenotype, including hypertension, proteinuria, renal pathology, cardiac concentric hypertrophy, decreased placental vascularization, and fetal growth retardation. Reactive oxygen species, NO, and peroxynitrite levels are elevated. Importantly, mass spectrometry reveals elevated placental S-nitrosylated amino acid residues in GSNOR(-/-) mice. Ascorbate reverses the phenotype except for fetal weight, reduces the difference in the S-nitrosoproteome, and identifies a unique set of S-nitrosylated proteins in GSNOR(-/-) mice. Importantly, human preeclamptic placentas exhibit decreased GSNOR activity and increased nitrosative stress. Conclusions Therefore, deficiency of GSNOR creates dysregulation of placental S-nitrosylation and preeclampsia in mice, which can be rescued by ascorbate. Coupled with similar findings in human placentas, these findings offer valuable insights and therapeutic implications for preeclampsia.
PXD023687	35192416	Distinct PEAK3 interactors and outputs expand the signaling potential of the PEAK pseudokinase family. 	Characterization of PEAK3 pseudokinase as a pro-migratory and -invasive member of New Kinase Family 3	NKF3/ PEAK1 (SgK269)/ PEAK2 (SgK223, Pragmin)/ PEAK3/Brest cancer, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project	The pseudokinase scaffolds PEAK1 and PEAK2 are implicated in cancer cell migration and metastasis. We characterized the regulation and role of the third family member PEAK3 in cell signaling. Similar to PEAK1 and PEAK2, PEAK3 formed both homotypic and heterotypic complexes. In addition, like PEAK1, it bound to the adaptors Grb2 and CrkII. However, unlike PEAK1 and PEAK2, homodimerized PEAK3 also interacted with the ARF GTPase-activating protein ASAP1, the E3 ubiquitin ligase Cbl, and the kinase PYK2. Dimerization and subsequent phosphorylation on Tyr(24), likely by a Src family kinase, were required for the binding of PEAK3 to Grb2 and ASAP1. Interactions with Grb2, CrkII, ASAP1, Cbl, and PYK2 exhibited contrasting dynamics upon cell stimulation with epidermal growth factor (EGF), in part due to PEAK3 dephosphorylation mediated by the phosphatase PTPN12. Overexpressing PEAK3 in mesenchymal-like MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cells enhanced cell elongation in a manner dependent on PEAK3 dimerization, and manipulation of PEAK3 expression demonstrated a positive role for this scaffold in regulating cell migration. Overexpressing PEAK3 in PEAK1/2 double-knockout MCF-10A breast epithelial cells enhanced acinar growth, impaired basement membrane integrity, and promoted invasion in three-dimensional cultures, with the latter two effects dependent on the binding of PEAK3 to Grb2 and ASAP1. PEAK1 and PEAK2 quantitatively and temporally influenced PEAK3 function. These findings characterize PEAK3 as an integral, signal-diversifying member of the PEAK family with scaffolding roles that promote cell proliferation, migration, and invasion.
PXD031823	35192709	Convergent Adaptation of Ootheca Formation as a Reproductive Strategy in Polyneoptera. 	Colleterial glands and ootheca proteome	ootheca proteome	Insects have evolved numerous adaptations and colonized diverse terrestrial environments. Several polyneopterans, including dictyopterans (cockroaches and mantids) and locusts, have developed oothecae, but little is known about the molecular mechanism, physiological function, and evolutionary significance of ootheca formation. Here, we demonstrate that the cockroach asymmetric colleterial glands produce vitellogenins, proline-rich protein, and glycine-rich protein as major ootheca structural proteins (OSPs) that undergo sclerotization and melanization for ootheca formation through the cooperative protocatechuic acid pathway and dopachrome and dopaminechrome subpathway. Functionally, OSP sclerotization and melanization prevent eggs from losing water at warm and dry conditions, and thus effectively maintain embryo viability. Dictyopterans and locusts convergently evolved vitellogenins, apolipoprotein D, and laminins as OSPs, whereas within Dictyoptera, cockroaches and mantids independently developed glycine-rich protein and fibroins as OSPs. Highlighting the ecological-evolutionary importance, convergent ootheca formation represents a successful reproductive strategy in Polyneoptera that promoted the radiation and establishment of cockroaches, mantids, and locusts.
PXD030215	35195778	Global analysis of RNA-binding proteins identifies a positive feedback loop between LARP1 and MYC that promotes tumorigenesis. 	Global analysis of RNA-binding proteins identifies a positive feedback loop between LARP1 and MYC that promotes tumorigenesis	Cancer, LARP1, MYC, Post-transcriptional regulation, RNA-binding protein	In addition to genomic alterations, aberrant changes in post-transcriptional regulation can modify gene function and drive cancer development. RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are a large class of post-transcriptional regulators that have been increasingly implicated in carcinogenesis. By integrating multi-omics data, we identify LARP1 as one of the most upregulated RBPs in colorectal cancer (CRC) and demonstrate its oncogenic properties. We perform LARP1:RNA interactome profiling and unveil a previously unexplored role for LARP1 in targeting the 3'UTR of oncogenes in CRC. Notably, we identify the proto-oncogenic transcription factor MYC as a key LARP1-regulated target. Our data show that LARP1 positively modulates MYC expression by associating with its 3'UTR. In addition, antisense oligonucleotide-mediated blocking of the interaction between LARP1 and the MYC 3'UTR reduces MYC expression and in vitro CRC growth. Furthermore, a systematic analysis of LARP1:protein interactions reveals IGF2BP3 and YBX1 as LARP1-interacting proteins that also regulate MYC expression and CRC development. Finally, we demonstrate that MYC reciprocally modulates LARP1 expression by targeting its enhancer. In summary, our data reveal a critical, previously uncharacterized role of LARP1 in promoting CRC tumorigenesis, validate its direct regulation of the proto-oncogene MYC and delineate a model of the positive feedback loop between MYC and LARP1 that promotes CRC growth and development.
PXD030090	35197629	Low-dose metformin targets the lysosomal AMPK pathway through PEN2. 	Low-dose metformin targets the lysosome-AMPK pathway through PEN2	AMPK, ATP6AP1, PEN2, metformin	Metformin, the most prescribed antidiabetic medicine, has shown other benefits such as anti-ageing and anticancer effects(1-4). For clinical doses of metformin, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) has a major role in its mechanism of action(4,5); however, the direct molecular target of metformin remains unknown. Here we show that clinically relevant concentrations of metformin inhibit the lysosomal proton pump v-ATPase, which is a central node for AMPK activation following glucose starvation(6). We synthesize a photoactive metformin probe and identify PEN2, a subunit of gamma-secretase(7), as a binding partner of metformin with a dissociation constant at micromolar levels. Metformin-bound PEN2 forms a complex with ATP6AP1, a subunit of the v-ATPase(8), which leads to the inhibition of v-ATPase and the activation of AMPK without effects on cellular AMP levels. Knockout of PEN2 or re-introduction of a PEN2 mutant that does not bind ATP6AP1 blunts AMPK activation. In vivo, liver-specific knockout of Pen2 abolishes metformin-mediated reduction of hepatic fat content, whereas intestine-specific knockout of Pen2 impairs its glucose-lowering effects. Furthermore, knockdown of pen-2 in Caenorhabditis elegans abrogates metformin-induced extension of lifespan. Together, these findings reveal that metformin binds PEN2 and initiates a signalling route that intersects, through ATP6AP1, the lysosomal glucose-sensing pathway for AMPK activation. This ensures that metformin exerts its therapeutic benefits in patients without substantial adverse effects.
PXD023795	35198878	An inducible CRISPR/Cas9 screen identifies DTX2 as a transcriptional regulator of human telomerase. 	A BioID-mediated proximity-labeling of human DTX2	BioID, DTX2, proximity-labeling	Most tumor cells reactivate telomerase to ensure unlimited proliferation, whereas the expression of human telomerase reverse transcriptase (hTERT) is tightly regulated and rate-limiting for telomerase activity maintenance. Several general transcription factors (TFs) have been found in regulating hTERT transcription; however, a systematic study is lacking. Here we performed an inducible CRISPR/Cas9 KO screen using an hTERT core promoter-driven reporter. We identified numerous positive regulators including an E3 ligase DTX2. In telomerase-positive cancer cells, DTX2 depletion downregulated hTERT transcription and telomerase activity, contributing to progressive telomere shortening, growth arrest, and increased apoptosis. Utilizing BioID, we characterized multiple TFs as DTX2 proximal proteins, among which NFIC functioned corporately with DTX2 in promoting hTERT transcription. Further analysis demonstrated that DTX2 mediated K63-linked ubiquitination of NFIC, which facilitated NFIC binding to the hTERT promoter and enhanced hTERT expression. These findings highlight a new hTERT regulatory pathway that may be exploited for potential cancer therapeutics.
PXD030455	35198887	Nrf2 activation reprograms macrophage intermediary metabolism and suppresses the type I interferon response. 	DIA proteomic analysis of unstimulated murine bone marrow derived macrophages from WT, Nrf2 KO and Keap1 KD cells	BMDM, DIA, KEAP1, NRF2, macrophages, murine	To overcome oxidative, inflammatory, and metabolic stress, cells have evolved cytoprotective protein networks controlled by nuclear factor-erythroid 2 p45-related factor 2 (Nrf2) and its negative regulator, Kelch-like ECH associated protein 1 (Keap1). Here, using high-resolution mass spectrometry we characterize the proteomes of macrophages with altered Nrf2 status revealing significant differences among the genotypes in metabolism and redox homeostasis, which were validated with respirometry and metabolomics. Nrf2 affected the proteome following lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation, with alterations in redox, carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, and innate immunity. Notably, Nrf2 activation promoted mitochondrial fusion. The Keap1 inhibitor, 4-octyl itaconate remodeled the inflammatory macrophage proteome, increasing redox and suppressing type I interferon (IFN) response. Similarly, pharmacologic or genetic Nrf2 activation inhibited the transcription of IFN-beta and its downstream effector IFIT2 during LPS stimulation. These data suggest that Nrf2 activation facilitates metabolic reprogramming and mitochondrial adaptation, and finetunes the innate immune response in macrophages.
PXD027854	35198895	Enzymatic activity of glycosyltransferase GLT8D1 promotes human glioblastoma cell migration. 	Enzymatic activity of glycosyltransferase GLT8D1 promotes human glioblastoma cells migration	GLT8D1, Q-Exactive HF, glioblastoma, interactome	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most aggressive primary brain tumor characterized by infiltrative growth of malignant glioma cells into the surrounding brain parenchyma. In this study, our analysis of GBM patient cohorts revealed a significantly higher expression of Glycosyltransferase 8 domain containing 1 (GLT8D1) compared to normal brain tissue and could be associated with impaired patient survival. Increased in vitro expression of GLT8D1 significantly enhanced migration of two different sphere-forming GBM cell lines. By in silico analysis we predicted the 3D-structure as well as the active site residues of GLT8D1. The introduction of point mutations in the predicted active site reduced its glycosyltransferase activity in vitro and consequently impaired GBM tumor cell migration. Examination of GLT8D1 interaction partners by LC-MS/MS implied proteins associated with cytoskeleton and intracellular transport as potential substrates. In conclusion, we demonstrated that the enzymatic activity of glycosyltransferase GLT8D1 promotes GBM cell migration.
PXD023992	35198897	Spotlight on alternative frame coding: Two long overlapping genes in Pseudomonas aeruginosa are translated and under purifying selection. 	Spotlight on alternative frame coding: two long overlapping genes in Pseudomonas aeruginosa are translated and under purifying selection	Overlapping genes, de novo gene origin, orphan genes, overprinting, ribosome profiling	The existence of overlapping genes (OLGs) with significant coding overlaps revolutionizes our understanding of genomic complexity. We report two exceptionally long (957 nt and 1536 nt), evolutionarily novel, translated antisense open reading frames (ORFs) embedded within annotated genes in the pathogenic Gram-negative bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Both OLG pairs show sequence features consistent with being genes and transcriptional signals in RNA sequencing. Translation of both OLGs was confirmed by ribosome profiling and mass spectrometry. Quantitative proteomics of samples taken during different phases of growth revealed regulation of protein abundances, implying biological functionality. Both OLGs are taxonomically restricted, and likely arose by overprinting within the genus. Evidence for purifying selection further supports functionality. The OLGs reported here, designated olg1 and olg2, are the longest yet proposed in prokaryotes and are among the best attested in terms of translation and evolutionary constraint. These results highlight a potentially large unexplored dimension of prokaryotic genomes.
PXD029832	35199904	Tailored Pyridoxal Probes Unravel Novel Cofactor-Dependent Targets and Antibiotic Hits in Critical Bacterial Pathogens. 	Tailored pyridoxal probes unravel novel cofactor-dependent targets and antibiotic hits in critical bacterial pathogens	Pyridoxal phosphate dependent enzymes, antibiotic compound screening, chemical proteomics, enzyme characterization	Unprecedented bacterial targets are urgently needed to overcome the resistance crisis. Herein we systematically mine pyridoxal phosphate-dependent enzymes (PLP-DEs) in bacteria to focus on a target class which is involved in crucial metabolic processes. For this, we tailored eight pyridoxal (PL) probes bearing modifications at various positions. Overall, the probes exceeded the performance of a previous generation and provided a detailed map of PLP-DEs in clinically relevant pathogens including challenging Gram-negative strains. Putative PLP-DEs with unknown function were exemplarily characterized via in-depth enzymatic assays. Finally, we screened a panel of PLP binders for antibiotic activity and unravelled the targets of hit molecules. Here, an uncharacterized enzyme, essential for bacterial growth, was assigned as PLP-dependent cysteine desulfurase and confirmed to be inhibited by the marketed drug phenelzine. Our approach provides a basis for deciphering novel PLP-DEs as essential antibiotic targets along with corresponding ways to decipher small molecule inhibitors.
PXD030166	35200138	Targeting DNA topoisomerases or checkpoint kinases results in an overload of chaperone systems, triggering aggregation of a metastable subproteome. 	Aggregation under genotoxic conditions in HEK293T and U2OS cells	CPT, U2OS, aggregation, camptothecin, genotoxic, insoluble	A loss of the checkpoint kinase ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) leads to impairments in the DNA damage response, and in humans causes cerebellar neurodegeneration, and an increased risk of cancer. A loss of ATM is also associated with increased protein aggregation. The relevance and characteristics of this aggregation are still incompletely understood. Moreover, it is unclear to what extent other genotoxic conditions can trigger protein aggregation as well. Here, we show that targeting ATM, but also ATR or DNA topoisomerases, results in the widespread aggregation of a metastable, disease-associated subfraction of the proteome. Aggregation-prone model substrates, including Huntingtin exon 1 containing an expanded polyglutamine repeat, aggregate faster under these conditions. This increased aggregation results from an overload of chaperone systems, which lowers the cell-intrinsic threshold for proteins to aggregate. In line with this, we find that inhibition of the HSP70 chaperone system further exacerbates the increased protein aggregation. Moreover, we identify the molecular chaperone HSPB5 as a cell-specific suppressor of it. Our findings reveal that various genotoxic conditions trigger widespread protein aggregation in a manner that is highly reminiscent of the aggregation occurring in situations of proteotoxic stress and in proteinopathies.
PXD031417	35202653	Lysine 63-linked ubiquitination of tau oligomers contributes to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. 	Ubiquitination of protein Tau in Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimers disease, Tau, posttranslational modifications	Ubiquitin-modified tau aggregates are abundantly found in human brains diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other tauopathies. Soluble tau oligomers (TauO) are the most neurotoxic tau species that propagate pathology and elicit cognitive deficits, but whether ubiquitination contributes to tau formation and spreading is not fully understood. Here, we observed that K63-linked, but not K48-linked, ubiquitinated TauO accumulated at higher levels in AD brains compared with age-matched controls. Using mass spectrometry analyses, we identified 11 ubiquitinated sites on AD brain-derived TauO (AD TauO). We found that K63-linked TauO are associated with enhanced seeding activity and propagation in human tau-expressing primary neuronal and tau biosensor cells. Additionally, exposure of tau-inducible HEK cells to AD TauO with different ubiquitin linkages (wild type, K48, and K63) resulted in enhanced formation and secretion of K63-linked TauO, which was associated with impaired proteasome and lysosome functions. Multipathway analysis also revealed the involvement of K63-linked TauO in cell survival pathways, which are impaired in AD. Collectively, our study highlights the significance of selective TauO ubiquitination, which could influence tau aggregation, accumulation, and subsequent pathological propagation. The insights gained from this study hold great promise for targeted therapeutic intervention in AD and related tauopathies.
PXD028931	35202840	In-Depth Matrisome and Glycoproteomic Analysis of Human Brain Glioblastoma Versus Control Tissue. 	In-depth matrisome and glycoproteomic analysis of glioblastoma human brain tissue	Glioblastoma, chondroitin sulfate, extracellular matrix, glycomics, glycoproteins, glycosaminoglycans, glycosylation, heparan sulfate, mass-spectrometry, matrisome, proteoglycans	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and malignant primary brain tumor. The extracellular matrix, also known as the matrisome, helps determine glioma invasion, adhesion, and growth. Little attention, however, has been paid to glycosylation of the extracellular matrix components that constitute the majority of glycosylated protein mass and presumed biological properties. To acquire a comprehensive understanding of the biological functions of the matrisome and its components, including proteoglycans (PGs) and glycosaminoglycans (GAGs), in GBM tumorigenesis, and to identify potential biomarker candidates, we studied the alterations of GAGs, including heparan sulfate (HS) and chondroitin sulfate (CS), the core proteins of PGs, and other glycosylated matrisomal proteins in GBM subtypes versus control human brain tissue samples. We scrutinized the proteomics data to acquire in-depth site-specific glycoproteomic profiles of the GBM subtypes that will assist in identifying specific glycosylation changes in GBM. We observed an increase in CS 6-O sulfation and a decrease in HS 6-O sulfation, accompanied by an increase in unsulfated CS and HS disaccharides in GBM versus control samples. Several core matrisome proteins, including PGs (decorin, biglycan, agrin, prolargin, glypican-1, and chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4), tenascin, fibronectin, hyaluronan link protein 1 and 2, laminins, and collagens, were differentially regulated in GBM versus controls. Interestingly, a higher degree of collagen hydroxyprolination was also observed for GBM versus controls. Further, two PGs, chondroitin sulfate proteoglycan 4 and agrin, were significantly lower, about 6-fold for isocitrate dehydrogenase-mutant, compared to the WT GBM samples. Differential regulation of O-glycopeptides for PGs, including brevican, neurocan, and versican, was observed for GBM subtypes versus controls. Moreover, an increase in levels of glycosyltransferase and glycosidase enzymes was observed for GBM when compared to control samples. We also report distinct protein, peptide, and glycopeptide features for GBM subtypes comparisons. Taken together, our study informs understanding of the alterations to key matrisomal molecules that occur during GBM development. (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD028931, and the peaks project file is available at Zenodo with DOI 10.5281/zenodo.5911810).
PXD037694	35203325	Proximity Ligation Mapping of Microcephaly Associated SMPD4 Shows Association with Components of the Nuclear Pore Membrane. 	Proximity ligation mapping of microcephaly associated SMPD4 shows association with components of the nuclear pore mem-brane	NUP35, Nuclear pore membrane, SMPD4, Sphingomyelinase, n-smnase-3	SMPD4 is a neutral sphingomyelinase implicated in a specific type of congenital microcephaly. Although not intensively studied, SMPD4 deficiency has also been found to cause cell division defects. This suggests a role for SMPD4 in cell-cycle and differentiation. In order to explore this role, we used proximity ligation to identify the partners of SMPD4 in vivo in HEK293T cells. We found that these partners localize near the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the nuclear membrane. Using mass spectrometry, we could identify these partners and discovered that SMPD4 is closely associated with several nucleoporins, including NUP35, a nucleoporin directly involved in pore membrane curvature and pore insertion. This suggests that SMPD4 may play a role in this process.
PXD027263	35203372	Cannabinoids Reduce Extracellular Vesicle Release from HIV-1 Infected Myeloid Cells and Inhibit Viral Transcription. 	HIV-1 infected Cell Pellets and Biotinylated Cannabidiol LC-MS/MS	Autophagy, Cannabidiol, HIV-1, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Of the 37.9 million individuals infected with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), approximately 50% exhibit HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND). We and others previously showed that HIV-1 viral RNAs, such as trans-activating response (TAR) RNA, are incorporated into extracellular vesicles (EVs) and elicit an inflammatory response in recipient naive cells. Cannabidiol (CBD) and Delta9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), the primary cannabinoids present in cannabis, are effective in reducing inflammation. Studies show that cannabis use in people living with HIV-1 is associated with lower viral load, lower circulating CD16(+) monocytes and high CD4(+) T-cell counts, suggesting a potentially therapeutic application. Here, HIV-1 infected U1 monocytes and primary macrophages were used to assess the effects of CBD. Post-CBD treatment, EV concentrations were analyzed using nanoparticle tracking analysis. Changes in intracellular and EV-associated viral RNA were quantified using RT-qPCR, and changes in viral proteins, EV markers, and autophagy proteins were assessed by Western blot. Our data suggest that CBD significantly reduces the number of EVs released from infected cells and that this may be mediated by reducing viral transcription and autophagy activation. Therefore, CBD may exert a protective effect by alleviating the pathogenic effects of EVs in HIV-1 and CNS-related infections.
PXD029831	35203449	Quantitative Proteomics of Polarised Macrophages Derived from Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells. 	Secretome analysis of polarised macrophages derived from induced pluripotent stem cells	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, LC-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), Stems Cells (B/D-HPP), iPSC, secretome	Macrophages (MPhi) are highly heterogenous and versatile innate immune cells involved in homeostatic and immune responses. Activated MPhi can exist in two extreme phenotypes: pro-inflammatory (M1) MPhi and anti-inflammatory (M2) MPhi. These phenotypes can be recapitulated in vitro by using ligands of toll-like receptors (TLRs) and cytokines such as IFNgamma and IL-4. In recent years, human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSC)-derived MPhi have gained major attention, as they are functionally similar to human monocyte-derived MPhi and are receptive to genome editing. In this study, we polarised iPSC-derived MPhi to M1 or M2 and analysed their proteome and secretome profiles using quantitative proteomics. These comprehensive proteomic data sets provide new insights into functions of polarised MPhi.
PXD031253	35203500	Quantitative Proteomic Study Unmasks Fibrinogen Pathway in Polycystic Liver Disease. 	Quantitative Proteomic Study Unmasks Fibrinogen Pathway in Polycystic Liver Disease	PLD, SWATH, quantitative proteomics, therapeutic targets	(1) Background: Polycystic liver disease (PLD) is a heterogeneous group of congenital disorders characterized by bile duct dilatation and cyst development derived from cholangiocytes. Nevertheless, the cystogenesis mechanism is currently unknown and the PLD treatment is limited to liver transplantation. Novel and efficient therapeutic approaches are th6us needed. In this context, the present work has a principal aim to find novel molecular pathways, as well as new therapeutic targets, involved in the hepatic cystogenesis process. (2) Methods: Quantitative proteomics based on SWATH-MS technology were performed comparing hepatic proteomes of Wild Type and mutant/polycystic livers in a polycystic kidney disease (PKD) murine model (Pkd1(cond/cond);Tam-Cre(-/+)). (3) Results: We identified several proteins altered in abundance, with two-fold cut-off up-regulation or down-regulation and an adjusted p-value significantly related to hepatic cystogenesis. Then, we performed enrichment and a protein-protein analysis identifying a cluster focused on hepatic fibrinogens. Finally, we validated a selection of targets by RT-qPCR, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry, finding a high correlation with quantitative proteomics data and validating the fibrinogen complex. (4) Conclusions: This work identified a novel molecular pathway in cystic liver disease, highlighting the fibrinogen complex as a possible new therapeutic target for PLD.
PXD030441	35203568	Cycloastragenol Inhibits Experimental Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Progression. 	Cycloastragenol inhibit experimental abdominal aortic aneurysm progression	aortic aneurysm, drug delivery, experimental model, pathogenesis, pharmacological therapy	The pathogenesis of abdominal aortic aneurysm involves vascular inflammation and elastin degradation. Astragalusradix contains cycloastragenol, which is known to be anti-inflammatory and to protect against elastin degradation. We hypothesized that cycloastragenol supplementation inhibits abdominal aortic aneurysm progression. Abdominal aortic aneurysm was induced in male rats by intraluminal elastase infusion in the infrarenal aorta and treated daily with cycloastragenol (125 mg/kg/day). Aortic expansion was followed weekly by ultrasound for 28 days. Changes in aneurysmal wall composition were analyzed by mRNA levels, histology, zymography and explorative proteomic analyses. At day 28, mean aneurysm diameter was 37% lower in the cycloastragenol group (p < 0.0001). In aneurysm cross sections, elastin content was insignificantly higher in the cycloastragenol group (10.5% +/- 5.9% vs. 19.9% +/- 16.8%, p = 0.20), with more preserved elastin lamellae structures (p = 0.0003) and without microcalcifications. Aneurysmal matrix metalloprotease-2 activity was reduced by the treatment (p = 0.022). Messenger RNA levels of inflammatory- and anti-oxidative markers did not differ between groups. Explorative proteomic analysis showed no difference in protein levels when adjusting for multiple testing. Among proteins displaying nominal regulation were fibulin-5 (p = 0.02), aquaporin-1 (p = 0.02) and prostacyclin synthase (p = 0.007). Cycloastragenol inhibits experimental abdominal aortic aneurysm progression. The suggested underlying mechanisms involve decreased matrix metalloprotease-2 activity and preservation of elastin and reduced calcification, thus, cycloastragenol could be considered for trial in abdominal aortic aneurysm patients.
PXD029462	35204161	Nitric Oxide Resistance in Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis Involves Regulation of Glucose Consumption, Glutathione Metabolism and Abundance of Pentose Phosphate Pathway Enzymes. 	Nitric oxide resistance in Leishmania (Viannia) braziliensis involves upregulation of glucose consumption, glutathione metabolism and increased abundance of proteins with S-nitrosoglutathione reductase activity	Leishmania, global proteomics, nitric oxide resistancy, protein concnetrations, reactive nitrogen species, reactive oxygen species, total protein approach	In American Tegumentary Leishmaniasis production of cytokines, reactive oxygen species and nitric oxide (NO) by host macrophages normally lead to parasite death. However, some Leishmania braziliensis strains exhibit natural NO resistance. NO-resistant strains cause more lesions and are frequently more resistant to antimonial treatment than NO-susceptible ones, suggesting that NO-resistant parasites are endowed with specific mechanisms of survival and persistence. To tests this, we analyzed the effect of pro- and antioxidant molecules on the infectivity in vitro of L. braziliensis strains exhibiting polar phenotypes of resistance or susceptibility to NO. In addition, we conducted a comprehensive quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis of those parasites. NO-resistant parasites were more infective to peritoneal macrophages, even in the presence of high levels of reactive species. Principal component analysis of protein concentration values clearly differentiated NO-resistant from NO-susceptible parasites, suggesting that there are natural intrinsic differences at molecular level among those strains. Upon NO exposure, NO-resistant parasites rapidly modulated their proteome, increasing their total protein content and glutathione (GSH) metabolism. Furthermore, NO-resistant parasites showed increased glucose analogue uptake, and increased abundance of phosphotransferase and G6PDH after nitrosative challenge, which can contribute to NADPH pool maintenance and fuel the reducing conditions for the recovery of GSH upon NO exposure. Thus, increased glucose consumption and GSH-mediated redox capability may explain the natural resistance of L. braziliensis against NO.
PXD012981	35204508	The Eutopic Endometrium Proteome in Endometriosis Reveals Candidate Markers and Molecular Mechanisms of Physiopathology. 	Proteomics of endometriosis   .	Endometriosis, Endometrium	Endometriosis is a common chronic gynaecological disease causing various symptoms, such as infertility and chronic pain. The gold standard for its diagnosis is still laparoscopy and the biopsy of endometriotic lesions. Here, we aimed to compare the eutopic endometrium from women with or without endometriosis to identify proteins that may be considered as potential biomarker candidates. Eutopic endometrium was collected from patients with endometriosis (n = 4) and women without endometriosis (n = 5) during a laparoscopy surgery during the mid-secretory phase of their menstrual cycle. Total proteins from tissues were extracted and digested before LC-MS-MS analysis. Among the 5301 proteins identified, 543 were differentially expressed and enriched in two specific KEGG pathways: focal adhesion and PI3K/AKT signaling. Integration of our data with a large-scale proteomics dataset allowed us to highlight 11 proteins that share the same trend of dysregulation in eutopic endometrium, regardless of the phase of the menstrual cycle. Our results constitute the first step towards the identification of potential promising endometrial diagnostic biomarkers. They provide new insights into the mechanisms underlying endometriosis and its etiology. Our results await further confirmation on a larger sample cohort.
PXD030951	35205118	Plasma Proteomic Changes of Atherosclerosis after Exercise in ApoE Knockout Mice. 	Plasma Proteomic Changes of Atherosclerosis After Exercise in ApoE knockout Mice	atherosclerosis, chemotaxis, complement factor C5, exercise, proteomic changes	Atherosclerosis is the preliminary cause of coronary artery disease, one of the diseases that account for the largest number of fatal mortalities. Physical activity is an effective strategy to restrain atherosclerosis from deterioration. Evidence indicated that changes in the proteomic profile are highly associated with atherosclerosis development, but the mechanism behind exercise for atherosclerosis amelioration has not yet been investigated from a proteomics perspective. Hence, the proteomic profiles could further elucidate the systematic effects of exercise intervention on ApoE knockout atherosclerotic model and high-fat-diet intervention. In the current study, Apoe(em1Narl)/Narl mice were randomly allocated into a normal diet (ND), Western diet (WD), and WD with 12-week exercise intervention (WD EX) groups. The plasma proteome between WD and WD EX groups demonstrate the significant difference, and ten major pathways, including cardiovascular disease (CVD)-hematological disease, inflammatory disease, infectious diseases, inflammatory response, cell-to-cell signaling and interaction, connective tissue disorders_inflammatory disease, metabolic disease_organismal injury and abnormalities, cell-to-cell signaling and interaction, connective tissue disorders_inflammatory disease, and endocrine system disorders_gastrointestinal disease, etc., were generated by the IPA analysis. The 15 proteins (MYOCD, PROS1, C2, SERPINA10, CRP, F5, C5, CFB, FGG, CFH, F12, PRDX2, PROZ, PPIA, and HABP2) critically involved in CVD-hematological disease pathway showed significant difference between WD and WD EX groups. In current study, exercise could significantly alleviate the significantly elevated C5 and inflammation induced by the WD group in accordance with amelioration of atherosclerosis. Therefore, exercise could mitigate chemotaxis through the modulation of the C5 level and innate immunity, thereby alleviating the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis in Western-diet-induced obese mice.
PXD011867	35205670	Constitutive Activation of p62/Sequestosome-1-Mediated Proteaphagy Regulates Proteolysis and Impairs Cell Death in Bortezomib-Resistant Mantle Cell Lymphoma. 	Proteaphagy contributes to bortezomib resistance in mantle cell lymphoma	TUBEs, Ubiquitin Proteasome System, bortezomib resistance, lymphoma, proteaphagy	Protein ubiquitylation coordinates crucial cellular events in physiological and pathological conditions. A comparative analysis of the ubiquitin proteome from bortezomib (BTZ)-sensitive and BTZ-resistant mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) revealed an enrichment of the autophagy-lysosome system (ALS) in BTZ-resistant cells. Pharmacological inhibition of autophagy at the level of lysosome-fusion revealed a constitutive activation of proteaphagy and accumulation of proteasome subunits within autophagosomes in different MCL cell lines with acquired or natural resistance to BTZ. Inhibition of the autophagy receptor p62/SQSTM1 upon verteporfin (VTP) treatment disrupted proteaphagosome assembly, reduced co-localization of proteasome subunits with autophagy markers and negatively impacted proteasome activity. Finally, the silencing or pharmacological inhibition of p62 restored the apoptosis threshold at physiological levels in BTZ-resistant cells both in vitro and in vivo. In total, these results demonstrate for the first time a proteolytic switch from the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) to ALS in B-cell lymphoma refractory to proteasome inhibition, pointing out a crucial role for proteaphagy in this phenomenon and paving the way for the design of alternative therapeutic venues in treatment-resistant tumors.
PXD031556	35205741	Molecular Composition of Serum Exosomes Could Discriminate Rectal Cancer Patients with Different Responses to Neoadjuvant Radiotherapy. 	Molecular composition of serum exosomes could discriminate rectal cancer patients with different responses to neoadjuvant radiotherapy	exosomes, plasma, radiotherapy, rectal cancer, small extracellular vesicles	Identification of biomarkers that could be used for the prediction of the response to neoadjuvant radiotherapy (neo-RT) in locally advanced rectal cancer remains a challenge addressed by different experimental approaches. Exosomes and other classes of extracellular vesicles circulating in patients' blood represent a novel type of liquid biopsy and a source of cancer biomarkers. Here, we used a combined proteomic and metabolomic approach based on mass spectrometry techniques for studying the molecular components of exosomes isolated from the serum of rectal cancer patients with different responses to neo-RT. This allowed revealing several proteins and metabolites associated with common pathways relevant for the response of rectal cancer patients to neo-RT, including immune system response, complement activation cascade, platelet functions, metabolism of lipids, metabolism of glucose, and cancer-related signaling pathways. Moreover, the composition of serum-derived exosomes and a whole serum was analyzed in parallel to compare the biomarker potential of both specimens. Among proteins that the most properly discriminated good and poor responders were GPLD1 (AUC = 0.85, accuracy of 74%) identified in plasma as well as C8G (AUC = 0.91, accuracy 81%), SERPINF2 (AUC = 0.91, accuracy 79%) and CFHR3 (AUC = 0.90, accuracy 81%) identified in exosomes. We found that the proteome component of serum-derived exosomes has the highest capacity to discriminate samples of patients with different responses to neo-RT when compared to the whole plasma proteome and metabolome. We concluded that the molecular components of exosomes are associated with the response of rectal cancer patients to neo-RT and could be used for the prediction of such response.
PXD016655	35205837	Circulating Proteins Associated with Response and Resistance to Neoadjuvant Chemotherapy in HER2-Positive Breast Cancer. 	Proteomics analysis of novel serum protein biomarkers for the diagnosis of trastuzumab-resistant breast cancer	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), breast cancer, serum	Despite the increasing use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) in HER2-positive breast cancer (BC) patients, the clinical problem of predicting individual treatment response remains unanswered. Furthermore, the use of ineffective chemotherapeutic regimens should be avoided. Serum biomarker levels are being studied more and more for their ability to predict therapy response and aid in the development of personalized treatment regimens. This study aims to identify effective protein networks and biomarkers to predict response to NAC in HER2-positive BC patients through an exhaustive large-scale LC-MS/MS-based qualitative and quantitative proteomic profiling of serum samples from responders and non-responders. Serum samples from HER2-positive BC patients were collected before NAC and were processed by three methods (with and without nanoparticles). The qualitative analysis revealed differences in the proteomic profiles between responders and non-responders, mainly in proteins implicated in the complement and coagulation cascades and apolipoproteins. Qualitative analysis confirmed that three proteins (AFM, SERPINA1, APOD) were correlated with NAC resistance. In this study, we show that serum biomarker profiles can predict treatment response and outcome in the neoadjuvant setting. If these findings are further developed, they will be of significant clinical utility in the design of treatment regimens for individual BC patients.
PXD015607	35207752	Pericardial Fluid Annexin A1 Is a Marker of Atrial Fibrillation in Aortic Stenosis: A Proteomics Analysis. 	Pericardial fluid proteome profile in aortic stenosis patients with complete or incomplete reverse remodeling	Aortic Stenosis, Coronary Artery Disease, Pericardial Fluid, Reverse Remodeling	Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common arrhythmia with adverse clinical outcomes. Pericardial fluid (PF) mirrors the heart's pathophysiological status due to its proximity. This study aimed to characterise the PF proteome to identify new biomarkers of disease. Eighty-three patients submitted to aortic valve replacement surgery with severe aortic stenosis were selected, and their baseline echocardiographic and clinical variables were documented. Thirteen samples were selected blindly for proteome characterisation following a shotgun (GeLC-MS/MS) and a label-free quantification approach (LFQ). According to previous AF history, a partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) was conducted, and the top 15 variables important in projection were identified. To inquire potential biomarkers, ROC curves were designed using LFQ data. Target proteins were further validated by ELISA, in both pericardial fluid and serum. Proteome analysis uncovered nine proteins up- and downregulated >=2-fold. Annexin A1, annexin A2, and vimentin were among the top 15 most important variables for group discrimination in PLS-DA. Protein-protein interaction and gene ontology enrichment analysis presented functional interaction among identified proteins, which were all part of focal adhesion sites. Annexin A1 was increased in the pericardial fluid of AF patients but not in serum when quantified by ELISA. Annexin A1 is a novel pericardial fluid biomarker of AF in patients with severe aortic stenosis.
PXD031589	35210360	Mitochondrial COA7 is a heme-binding protein with disulfide reductase activity, which acts in the early stages of complex IV assembly. 	Mitochondrial COA7 is a heme-binding protein with disulfide reductase activity, which is involved in the early stages of complex IV assembly	COA7, COX, X-ray crystallography, cytochrome c oxidase, heme, mitochondria	Cytochrome c oxidase (COX) assembly factor 7 (COA7) is a metazoan-specific assembly factor, critical for the biogenesis of mitochondrial complex IV (cytochrome c oxidase). Although mutations in COA7 have been linked to complex IV assembly defects and neurological conditions such as peripheral neuropathy, ataxia, and leukoencephalopathy, the precise role COA7 plays in the biogenesis of complex IV is not known. Here, we show that loss of COA7 blocks complex IV assembly after the initial step where the COX1 module is built, progression from which requires the incorporation of copper and addition of the COX2 and COX3 modules. The crystal structure of COA7, determined to 2.4 Aa resolution, reveals a banana-shaped molecule composed of five helix-turn-helix (alpha/alpha) repeats, tethered by disulfide bonds. COA7 interacts transiently with the copper metallochaperones SCO1 and SCO2 and catalyzes the reduction of disulfide bonds within these proteins, which are crucial for copper relay to COX2. COA7 binds heme with micromolar affinity, through axial ligation to the central iron atom by histidine and methionine residues. We therefore propose that COA7 is a heme-binding disulfide reductase for regenerating the copper relay system that underpins complex IV assembly.
PXD025055	35210420	Identification of distinct cytotoxic granules as the origin of supramolecular attack particles in T lymphocytes. 	Identification of a novel class of cytotoxic granules as origin of supramolecular attack particles in T lymphocytes	SNARE proteins, correlative light and elec, cytotoxic granules, exocytosis, immunological synapse, multi core granules, single core granules, supramolecular attack particles, total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy	Cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) kill malignant and infected cells through the directed release of cytotoxic proteins into the immunological synapse (IS). The cytotoxic protein granzyme B (GzmB) is released in its soluble form or in supramolecular attack particles (SMAP). We utilize synaptobrevin2-mRFP knock-in mice to isolate fusogenic cytotoxic granules in an unbiased manner and visualize them alone or in degranulating CTLs. We identified two classes of fusion-competent granules, single core granules (SCG) and multi core granules (MCG), with different diameter, morphology and protein composition. Functional analyses demonstrate that both classes of granules fuse with the plasma membrane at the IS. SCG fusion releases soluble GzmB. MCGs can be labelled with the SMAP marker thrombospondin-1 and their fusion releases intact SMAPs. We propose that CTLs use SCG fusion to fill the synaptic cleft with active cytotoxic proteins instantly and parallel MCG fusion to deliver latent SMAPs for delayed killing of refractory targets.
PXD027149	35211260	A chemical tool for blue light-inducible proximity photo-crosslinking in live cells. 	A Chemical Tool for Blue Light-Inducible Proximity Photo-crosslinking in Live Cells	Proximity crosslinking / SARS-CoV-2 / Nucleocapsid	We developed a proximity photo-crosslinking method (Spotlight) with a 4-azido-N-ethyl-1,8-naphthalimide (AzNP) moiety that can be converted to reactive aryl nitrene species using ambient blue light-emitting diode light. Using an AzNP-conjugated HaloTag ligand (VL1), blue light-induced photo-crosslinked products of various HaloTag-conjugated proteins of interest were detected in subcellular spaces in live cells. Chemical or heat stress-induced dynamic changes in the proteome were also detected, and photo-crosslinking in the mouse brain tissue was enabled. Using Spotlight, we further identified the host interactome of SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid (N) protein, which is essential for viral genome assembly. Mass analysis of the VL1-crosslinked product of N-HaloTag in HEK293T cells showed that RNA-binding proteins in stress granules were exclusively enriched in the cross-linked samples. These results tell that our method can reveal the interactome of protein of interest within a short distance in live cells.
PXD029353	35213151	Discovery of the Xenon-Protein Interactome Using Large-Scale Measurements of Protein Folding and Stability. 	Discovery of the Xenon-Protein Interactome using Large-Scale Measurements of Protein Folding and Stability	Limited Proteolysis, Noble Gases, Protein Stability, SPROX	The intermolecular interactions of noble gases in biological systems are associated with numerous biochemical responses, including apoptosis, inflammation, anesthesia, analgesia, and neuroprotection. The molecular modes of action underlying these responses are largely unknown. This is in large part due to the limited experimental techniques to study protein-gas interactions. The few techniques that are amenable to such studies are relatively low-throughput and require large amounts of purified proteins. Thus, they do not enable the large-scale analyses that are useful for protein target discovery. Here, we report the application of stability of proteins from rates of oxidation (SPROX) and limited proteolysis (LiP) methodologies to detect protein-xenon interactions on the proteomic scale using protein folding stability measurements. Over 5000 methionine-containing peptides and over 5000 semi-tryptic peptides, mapping to ~1500 and ~950 proteins, respectively, in the yeast proteome, were assayed for Xe-interacting activity using the SPROX and LiP techniques. The SPROX and LiP analyses identified 31 and 60 Xe-interacting proteins, respectively, none of which were previously known to bind Xe. A bioinformatics analysis of the proteomic results revealed that these Xe-interacting proteins were enriched in those involved in ATP-driven processes. A fraction of the protein targets that were identified are tied to previously established modes of action related to xenon's anesthetic and organoprotective properties. These results enrich our knowledge and understanding of biologically relevant xenon interactions. The sample preparation protocols and analytical methodologies developed here for xenon are also generally applicable to the discovery of a wide range of other protein-gas interactions in complex biological mixtures, such as cell lysates.
PXD024751	35213550	Proteomic analysis of the umbilical cord in fetal growth restriction and preeclampsia. 	PROTEOMIC ANALYSIS OF THE UMBILICAL CORD IN FETAL GROWTH RESTRICTION AND PREECLAMPSIA	Bottom-Up Proteomics, Fetal Growth Restriction (FGR), Pre-eclampsia, Umbilical Cord, Whartons Jelly, timsTOF Pro	Fetal growth restriction (FGR) is associated with adverse perinatal outcomes. Pre-eclampsia (PreE) increases the associated perinatal morbidity and mortality. The structure of the umbilical cord in the setting of FGR and PreE is understudied. This study aimed to examine changes in the umbilical cord (UC) composition in pregnancies complicated by FGR and FGR with PreE. UC from gestational age-matched pregnancies with isolated FGR (n = 5), FGR+PreE (n = 5) and controls (n = 5) were collected, and a portion of the UC was processed for histologic and proteomic analysis. Manual segmentation analysis was performed to measure cross-section analysis of umbilical cord regions. Wharton's Jelly samples were analyzed on a tims-TOF Pro. Spectral count and ion abundance data were analyzed, creating an intersection dataset from multiple mass spectrometry search and inference engines. UCs from FGR and FGR with PreE had lower cross-sectional area and Wharton's Jelly area compared with control (p = 0.03). When comparing FGR to control, 28 proteins were significantly different in abundance analysis and 34 in spectral count analysis (p < 0.05). Differential expression analysis between PreE with FGR vs controls demonstrated that 48 proteins were significantly different in abundance and 5 in spectral count. The majority of changes occurred in proteins associated with extracellular matrix, cellular process, inflammatory, and angiogenesis pathways. The structure and composition of the UC is altered in pregnancies with FGR and FGR with PreE. Future work in validating these proteomic differences will enable identification of therapeutic targets for FGR and FGR with PreE.
PXD024864	35213742	ABIN1 is a signal-induced autophagy receptor that attenuates NF-kappaB activation by recognizing linear ubiquitin chains. 	ABIN1 is an signal-induced autophagy adaptor counteracting LUBAC-mediated linear ubiquitination	ABIN1, MyDDsome, NF-kB, autophagy, linear ubiquitination	Linear ubiquitin chains play pivotal roles in immune signaling by augmenting NF-kappaB activation and suppressing programmed cell death induced by various stimuli. A20-binding inhibitor of NF-kappaB 1 (ABIN1) binds to linear ubiquitin chains and attenuates NF-kappaB activation and cell death induction. Although interactions with linear ubiquitin chains are thought to play a role in ABIN1-mediated suppression of NF-kappaB and cell death, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we show that upon stimulation by Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands, ABIN1 is phosphorylated on Ser 83 and functions as a selective autophagy receptor. ABIN1 recognizes components of the MyD88 signaling complex via interaction with linear ubiquitin chains conjugated to components of the complex in TLR signaling, which leads to autophagic degradation of signaling proteins and attenuated NF-kappaB signaling. Our current findings indicate that phosphorylation and linear ubiquitination also play a role in downregulation of signaling via selective induction of autophagy.
PXD028066	35215105	Intestinal and Mucosal Microbiome Response to Oral Challenge of Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli in Weaned Pigs. 	Intestinal proteomic response to oral challenge of enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli in weaned pigs	Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli, Infant diarrhea, ileum, sus scrofa	Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is closely associated with diarrhoea in children in resource-limited countries. This study aims to investigate the change of the mucosal microbiome and protein expression in the ileum induced by E. coli K88 (ETEC) using pigs as a model. Seven weaned male pigs were orally given ETEC (1 x 10(9) CFU, n = 7), and the other seven received saline (CON, n = 7). Ileal tissues were obtained 48 hours after the ETEC challenge for both proteomic and mucosal microbiome analyses. Nine proteins were found with altered abundance between the two groups, including a decrease in FABP1 and FABP6, involved in bile acid circulation. The TLR-9 mediated pathway was also affected showing increased transcription of genes SIGIRR and MyD88. Correlations between the ileal proteins and mucosal bacterial taxa found included a positive correlation between Lactobacilllus and PPP3CA (r = 0.9, p < 0.001) and a negative correlation between Prevotella with CTNND1 (r = -0.7, p < 0.01). In conclusion, ETEC infection caused inflammation and impaired the circulation of bile acids and the mucosal microbiome may affect the expression of intestinal proteins. Further studies are needed to explain the exact roles of these affected processes in the pathogenesis of ETEC-triggered diarrhoea.
PXD026905	35215131	Sheltered in Stromal Tissue Cells, Trypanosoma cruzi Orchestrates Inflammatory Neovascularization via Activation of the Mast Cell Chymase Pathway. 	Proteomic analysis of T-cruzi experimentally infected hamster cheeck pouch	cheeck pouch, hamster	Microangiopathy may worsen the clinical outcome of Chagas disease. Given the obstacles to investigating the dynamics of inflammation and angiogenesis in heart tissues parasitized by Trypanosoma cruzi, here we used intravital microscopy (IVM) to investigate microcirculatory alterations in the hamster cheek pouch (HCP) infected by green fluorescent protein-expressing T. cruzi (GFP-T. cruzi). IVM performed 3 days post-infection (3 dpi) consistently showed increased baseline levels of plasma extravasation. Illustrating the reciprocal benefits that microvascular leakage brings to the host-parasite relationship, these findings suggest that intracellular amastigotes, acting from inside out, stimulate angiogenesis while enhancing the delivery of plasma-borne nutrients and prosurvival factors to the infection foci. Using a computer-based analysis of images (3 dpi), we found that proangiogenic indexes were positively correlated with transcriptional levels of proinflammatory cytokines (pro-IL1beta and IFN-gamma). Intracellular GFP-parasites were targeted by delaying for 24 h the oral administration of the trypanocidal drug benznidazole. A classification algorithm showed that benznidazole (>24 h) blunted angiogenesis (7 dpi) in the HCP. Unbiased proteomics (3 dpi) combined to pharmacological targeting of chymase with two inhibitors (chymostatin and TY-51469) linked T. cruzi-induced neovascularization (7 dpi) to the proangiogenic activity of chymase, a serine protease stored in secretory granules from mast cells.
PXD025822	35215314	The p97 Inhibitor UPCDC-30245 Blocks Endo-Lysosomal Degradation. 	The Phenyl Indole p97 inhibitor, UPCDC-30245, blocks endo-lysosomal degradation and coronavirus entry to host cells	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cancer (B/D-HPP), Covid-19, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, anti-virus, p97 inhibitor	The diverse modes of action of small molecule inhibitors provide versatile tools to investigate basic biology and develop therapeutics. However, it remains a challenging task to evaluate their exact mechanisms of action. We identified two classes of inhibitors for the p97 ATPase: ATP competitive and allosteric. We showed that the allosteric p97 inhibitor, UPCDC-30245, does not affect two well-known cellular functions of p97, endoplasmic-reticulum-associated protein degradation and the unfolded protein response pathway; instead, it strongly increases the lipidated form of microtubule-associated proteins 1A/1B light chain 3B (LC3-II), suggesting an alteration of autophagic pathways. To evaluate the molecular mechanism, we performed proteomic analysis of UPCDC-30245 treated cells. Our results revealed that UPCDC-30245 blocks endo-lysosomal degradation by inhibiting the formation of early endosome and reducing the acidity of the lysosome, an effect not observed with the potent p97 inhibitor CB-5083. This unique effect allows us to demonstrate UPCDC-30245 exhibits antiviral effects against coronavirus by blocking viral entry.
PXD022249	35216074	Root Membrane Ubiquitinome under Short-Term Osmotic Stress. 	Root membrane ubiquitinome under osmotic stress reveals specific post-translational modification patterns	Aquaporin, osmotic stress, post-translational modification, ubiquitination	Osmotic stress can be detrimental to plants, whose survival relies heavily on proteomic plasticity. Protein ubiquitination is a central post-translational modification in osmotic-mediated stress. In this study, we used the K-E-GG antibody enrichment method integrated with high-resolution mass spectrometry to compile a list of 719 ubiquitinated lysine (K-Ub) residues from 450 Arabidopsis root membrane proteins (58% of which are transmembrane proteins), thereby adding to the database of ubiquitinated substrates in plants. Although no ubiquitin (Ub) motifs could be identified, the presence of acidic residues close to K-Ub was revealed. Our ubiquitinome analysis pointed to a broad role of ubiquitination in the internalization and sorting of cargo proteins. Moreover, the simultaneous proteome and ubiquitinome quantification showed that ubiquitination is mostly not involved in membrane protein degradation in response to short osmotic treatment but that it is putatively involved in protein internalization, as described for the aquaporin PIP2;1. Our in silico analysis of ubiquitinated proteins shows that two E2 Ub-conjugating enzymes, UBC32 and UBC34, putatively target membrane proteins under osmotic stress. Finally, we revealed a positive role for UBC32 and UBC34 in primary root growth under osmotic stress.
PXD030781	35216100	Dysregulation of S-adenosylmethionine Metabolism in Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis Leads to Polyamine Flux and Oxidative Stress. 	Murine Western diet-induced nonalcoholic steatohepatitis liver proteome	liver, steatohepatitis	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the number one cause of chronic liver disease worldwide, with 25% of these patients developing nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). NASH significantly increases the risk of cirrhosis and decompensated liver failure. Past studies in rodent models have shown that glycine-N-methyltransferase (GNMT) knockout results in rapid steatosis, fibrosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma progression. However, the attenuation of GNMT in subjects with NASH and the molecular basis for its impact on the disease process is still unclear. To address this knowledge gap, we show the reduction of GNMT protein levels in the liver of NASH subjects compared to healthy controls. To gain insight into the impact of decreased GNMT in the disease process, we performed global label-free proteome studies on the livers from a murine modified amylin diet-based model of NASH. Histological and molecular characterization of the animal model demonstrate a high resemblance to human disease. We found that a reduction of GNMT leads to a significant increase in S-adenosylmethionine (AdoMet), an essential metabolite for transmethylation reactions and a substrate for polyamine synthesis. Further targeted proteomic and metabolomic studies demonstrated a decrease in GNMT transmethylation, increased flux through the polyamine pathway, and increased oxidative stress production contributing to NASH pathogenesis.
PXD030990	35216421	Comparison of Different Mass Spectrometry Workflows for the Proteomic Analysis of Tear Fluid. 	Comparison of Different Mass-Spectrometry Workflows for the Proteomic Analysis of Tear Fluid	Biomarkers, Dry eye disease, Ocular surface, Tear film	The tear film is a multi-layer fluid that covers the corneal and conjunctival epithelia of the eye and provides lubrication, nutrients, and protection from the outside environment. Tear fluid contains a high concentration of proteins and has thus been recognized as a potential source of biomarkers for ocular disorders due to its proximity to disease sites on the ocular surface and the non-invasive nature of its collection. This is particularly true in the case of dry eye disease, which directly impacts the tear film and its components. Proteomic analysis of tear fluid is challenging mainly due to the wide dynamic range of proteins and the small sample volumes. However, recent advancements in mass spectrometry have revolutionized the field of proteomics enabling unprecedented depth, speed, and accuracy, even with small sample volumes. In this study using the Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid mass spectrometer, we compared four different mass spectrometry workflows for the proteomic analysis of tear fluid collected via Schirmer strips. We were able to establish a method of in-strip protein digestion that identified >3000 proteins in human tear samples from 11 healthy subjects. Our method offers a significant improvement in the number of proteins identified compared to previously reported methods without pooling samples.
PXD028194	35216634	A missing piece of the puzzle in pulmonary fibrosis: anoikis resistance promotes fibroblast activation. 	Immunoglobulin-producing AT2-like cells secrete IgA into the extracellular matrix in pulmonary fibrosis	IgA, fibrosis, lung ECM, sc-RNA sequencing, spatial transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: Pulmonary fibrosis initiates a pneumonic cascade that leads to fibroblast dysfunction characterized by excess proliferation. Anoikis is a physiological process that ensures tissue development and homeostasis. Researchers have not clearly determined whether disruption of anoikis is involved in pulmonary fibrosis. RESULTS: Here, we investigated the mechanism by which silica induces fibroblast activation via anoikis resistance and subsequent fibrosis. Anoikis of lung fibroblasts, alveolar epithelial cells and endothelial cells during the process of fibrosis was detected using CCK-8, western blot, cell count and flow cytometry (FCM) assays. Although the three cell types showed similar increases in proliferation, the expression of NTRK2, a marker of anoikis resistance, was upregulated specifically in fibroblasts, indicating the unique proliferation mechanism of fibroblasts in pulmonary fibrosis, which may be related to anoikis resistance. Furthermore, the CRISPR/Cas9 system was used to investigate the molecular mechanism of anoikis resistance; the SiO2-induced inflammatory response activated the MAPK/PI3K signaling pathway in lung fibroblasts and then induced the expression of the ZC3H4 protein, which specifically mediated anoikis resistance, followed by pulmonary fibrosis. CONCLUSIONS: The current study revealed a specific pattern of fibroblast proliferation, and strategies targeting anoikis resistance may inhibit the pathological process of pulmonary fibrosis. This result provides a new approach for treating pulmonary fibrosis and new insights into the potential application of ZC3H4 in the development of novel therapeutic strategies for mitigating pulmonary fibrosis.
PXD029675	35216657	Chemical probing provides insight into the native assembly state of a bacterial microcompartment. 	Chemical Probing Discovers New Insights into the Native Assembly State of a  Bacterial Microcompartment	Bacterial microcompartment, chemical modification, cross-linking, dynamic, interactome	Bacterial microcompartments (BMCs) are widespread in bacteria and are used for a variety of metabolic purposes, including catabolism of host metabolites. A suite of proteins self-assembles into the shell and cargo layers of BMCs. However, the native assembly state of these large complexes remains to be elucidated. Herein, chemical probes were used to observe structural features of a native BMC. While the exterior could be demarcated with fluorophores, the interior was unexpectedly permeable, suggesting that the shell layer may be more dynamic than previously thought. This allowed access to cross-linking chemical probes, which were analyzed to uncover the protein interactome. These cross-links revealed a complex multivalent network among cargo proteins that contained encapsulation peptides and demonstrated that the shell layer follows discrete rules in its assembly. These results are consistent overall with a model in which biomolecular condensation drives interactions of cargo proteins before envelopment by shell layer proteins.
PXD023175	35216673	A blood atlas of COVID-19 defines hallmarks of disease severity and specificity. 	A blood atlas of COVID-19 defines hallmarks of disease severity and specificity	COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, TimsTOF Pro, clinical proteomics, high-throughput	Treatment of severe COVID-19 is currently limited by clinical heterogeneity and incomplete description of specific immune biomarkers. We present here a comprehensive multi-omic blood atlas for patients with varying COVID-19 severity in an integrated comparison with influenza and sepsis patients versus healthy volunteers. We identify immune signatures and correlates of host response. Hallmarks of disease severity involved cells, their inflammatory mediators and networks, including progenitor cells and specific myeloid and lymphocyte subsets, features of the immune repertoire, acute phase response, metabolism, and coagulation. Persisting immune activation involving AP-1/p38MAPK was a specific feature of COVID-19. The plasma proteome enabled sub-phenotyping into patient clusters, predictive of severity and outcome. Systems-based integrative analyses including tensor and matrix decomposition of all modalities revealed feature groupings linked with severity and specificity compared to influenza and sepsis. Our approach and blood atlas will support future drug development, clinical trial design, and personalized medicine approaches for COVID-19.
PXD026454	35217309	Combining selinexor with alisertib to target the p53 pathway in neuroblastoma. 	Deep proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of neuroblastoma treated with XPO1 inhibitor Selinexor	Neuroblastoma, Selinexor, TMTpro, XPO1, phosphoproteome	Neuroblastoma accounts for 15% of cancer-related deaths in children, highlighting an unmet need for novel therapies. Selinexor is a small molecule inhibitor of XPO1. XPO1 shuffles cargo proteins with a nuclear export sequence from the nucleus to the cytosol, many of which are essential for cancer growth and cell maintenance. We systematically tested the effect of selinexor against neuroblastoma cells in vitro and in vivo and used an advanced proteomic and phosphoproteomic screening approach to interrogate unknown mechanisms of action. We found that selinexor induced its cytotoxic effects in neuroblastoma through the predominantly nuclear accumulation of p53 and global activation of apoptosis pathways. Selinexor also induced p53 phosphorylation at site S315, which is one initiating step for p53 degradation. Since this phosphorylation step is undertaken mostly by aurora kinase A (AURKA), we used the clinically available AURKA inhibitor, alisertib, and found p53-mediated lethality could be further augmented in three orthotopic xenograft mouse models. These findings suggest a potential therapeutic benefit using selinexor and alisertib to synergistically increase p53-mediated cytotoxicity of high-risk neuroblastoma.
PXD030063	35217606	Nanobodies as allosteric modulators of Parkinson's disease-associated LRRK2. 	Mapping of nanobody binding sites on human LRRK2 by CX-MS	CID-cleavable, CL-MS, CX-MS, DSSO, LRRK2, crosslinking, nanobodies	Mutations in the gene coding for leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are a leading cause of the inherited form of Parkinson's disease (PD), while LRRK2 overactivation is also associated with the more common idiopathic form of PD. LRRK2 is a large multidomain protein, including a GTPase as well as a Ser/Thr protein kinase domain. Common, disease-causing mutations increase LRRK2 kinase activity, presenting LRRK2 as an attractive target for drug discovery. Currently, drug development has mainly focused on ATP-competitive kinase inhibitors. Here, we report the identification and characterization of a variety of nanobodies that bind to different LRRK2 domains and inhibit or activate LRRK2 in cells and in in vitro. Importantly, nanobodies were identified that inhibit LRRK2 kinase activity while binding to a site that is topographically distinct from the active site and thus act through an allosteric inhibitory mechanism that does not involve binding to the ATP pocket or even to the kinase domain. Moreover, while certain nanobodies completely inhibit the LRRK2 kinase activity, we also identified nanobodies that specifically inhibit the phosphorylation of Rab protein substrates. Finally, in contrast to current type I kinase inhibitors, the studied kinase-inhibitory nanobodies did not induce LRRK2 microtubule association. These comprehensively characterized nanobodies represent versatile tools to study the LRRK2 function and mechanism and can pave the way toward novel diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for PD.
PXD028924	35217627	CSB-independent, XPC-dependent transcription-coupled repair in Drosophila. 	IP-MS/MS analysis of UV induced RPII215 interactome	Drosophila Melanogaster, IP-MS/MS, RPII215	Drosophila melanogaster has been extensively used as a model system to study ionizing radiation and chemical-induced mutagenesis, double-strand break repair, and recombination. However, there are only limited studies on nucleotide excision repair in this important model organism. An early study reported that Drosophila lacks the transcription-coupled repair (TCR) form of nucleotide excision repair. This conclusion was seemingly supported by the Drosophila genome sequencing project, which revealed that Drosophila lacks a homolog to CSB, which is known to be required for TCR in mammals and yeasts. However, by using excision repair sequencing (XR-seq) genome-wide repair mapping technology, we recently found that the Drosophila S2 cell line performs TCR comparable to human cells. Here, we have extended this work to Drosophila at all its developmental stages. We find TCR takes place throughout the life cycle of the organism. Moreover, we find that in contrast to humans and other multicellular organisms previously studied, the XPC repair factor is required for both global and transcription-coupled repair in Drosophila.
PXD023721	35217799	Cathepsin F and Fibulin-1 as novel diagnostic biomarkers for brain metastasis of non-small cell lung cancer. 	Cathepsin F and Fibulin-1 as novel diagnostic biomarkers for Brain Metastasis of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer	Diagnosis, Follow-up, NSCLC brain metastasis, Prognosis.	BACKGROUND: The lack of non-invasive methods for detection of early micro-metastasis is a major cause of the poor prognosis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) brain metastasis (BM) patients. Herein, we aimed to identify circulating biomarkers based on proteomics for the early diagnosis and monitoring of patients with NSCLC BM. METHODS: Upregulated proteins were detected by secretory proteomics in the animal-derived high brain metastatic lung cancer cell line. A well-designed study composed of three independent cohorts was then performed to verify these blood-based protein biomarkers: the serum discovery and verification cohorts (n = 80; n = 459), and the tissue verification cohort (n = 76). Logistic regression was used to develop a diagnostic biomarker panel. Model validation cohort (n = 160) was used to verify the stability of the constructed predictive model. Changes in serum Cathepsin F (CTSF) levels of patients were tracked to monitor the treatment response. Progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) were analysed to assess their prognostic relevance. RESULTS: CTSF and Fibulin-1 (FBLN1) levels were specifically upregulated in sera and tissues of patients with NSCLC BM compared with NSCLC without BM and primary brain tumour. The combined diagnostic performance of CTSF and FBLN1 was superior to their individual ones. CTSF serum changes were found to reflect the therapeutic response of patients with NSCLC BM and the trends of progression were detected earlier than the magnetic resonance imaging changes. Elevated expression of CTSF in NSCLC BM tissues was associated with poor PFS, and was found to be an independent prognostic factor. CONCLUSIONS: We report a novel blood-based biomarker panel for early diagnosis, monitoring of therapeutic response, and prognostic evaluation of patients with NSCLC BM.
PXD029881	35218417	Olfactomedin-4 improves cutaneous wound healing by promoting skin cell proliferation and migration through POU5F1/OCT4 and ESR1 signalling cascades. 	Olfactomedin-4 improves cutaneous wound healing by promoting skin cell proliferation and migration	burns, keratinocytes, olfactomedin-4, psoriasis, skin regeneration, wound healing	Olfactomedin-4 (OLFM4) is an olfactomedin-domain-containing glycoprotein, which regulates cell adhesion, proliferation, gastrointestinal inflammation, innate immunity and cancer metastasis. In the present study we investigated its role in skin regeneration. We found that OLFM4 expression is transiently upregulated in the proliferative phase of cutaneous wound healing in humans as well as in mice. Moreover, a significant increase in OLFM4 expression was detected in the skin of lesional psoriasis, a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by keratinocyte hyperproliferation. In vitro experiments demonstrated that OLFM4 selectively stimulated keratinocyte proliferation and increased both keratinocyte and fibroblast migration. Using proteotranscriptomic pathway analysis we revealed that transcription factors POU5F1/OCT4 and ESR1 acted as hubs for OLFM4-induced signalling in keratinocytes. In vivo experiments utilizing mouse splinted full-thickness cutaneous wound healing model showed that application of recombinant OLFM4 protein can significantly improve wound healing efficacy. Taken together, our results suggest that OLFM4 acts as a transiently upregulated inflammatory signal that promotes wound healing by regulating both dermal and epidermal cell compartments of the skin.
PXD015614	35220892	Chloroquine treatment induces secretion of autophagy-related proteins and inclusion of Atg8-family proteins in distinct extracellular vesicle populations. 	Chloroquine-mediated lysosomal inhibition alters composition and function of cancer-derived extracellular vesicles	autophagy, chloroquine, extracellular vesicles	Chloroquine (CQ), a lysosomotropic agent, is commonly used to inhibit lysosomal degradation and macroautophagy/autophagy. Here we investigated the cell-extrinsic effects of CQ on secretion. We showed that lysosomal and autophagy inhibition by CQ altered the secretome, and induced the release of Atg8 orthologs and autophagy receptors. Atg8-family proteins, in particular, were secreted inside small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) in a lipidation-dependent manner. CQ treatment enhanced the release of Atg8-family proteins inside sEVs. Using full-length ATG16L1 and an ATG16L1 mutant that enables Atg8-family protein lipidation on double but not on single membranes, we demonstrated that LC3B is released in two distinct sEV populations: one enriched with SDCBP/Syntenin-1, CD63, and endosomal lipidated LC3B, and another that contains LC3B but is not enriched with SDCBP/Syntenin-1 or CD63, and which our data supports as originating from a double-membrane source. Our findings underscore the context-dependency of sEV heterogeneity and composition, and illustrate the integration of autophagy and sEV composition in response to lysosomal inhibition.Abbreviations: ACTB: actin beta; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATG4B: autophagy related 4B cysteine peptidase; Atg8: autophagy related 8; ATG16L1: autophagy related 16 like 1; ATP5F1A/ATP5a: ATP synthase F1 subunit alpha; CALCOCO2: calcium binding and coiled-coil domain 2; CASP3: caspase 3; CASP7: caspase 7; CQ: chloroquine; CD9: CD9 molecule; CD63: CD63 molecule; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; DQ-BSA: dye quenched-bovine serum albumin; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; ERN1/IRE1a: endoplasmic reticulum to nucleus signaling 1; EV: extracellular vesicles; FBS: fetal bovine serum; FDR: false discovery rate; GABARAP: GABA type A receptor-associated protein; GABARAPL2: GABA type A receptor associated protein like 2; GAPDH: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GO: gene ontology; HCQ: hydroxychloroquine; HSP90AA1: heat shock protein 90 alpha family class A member 1; IP: immunoprecipitation; KO: knockout; LAMP2: lysosomal associated membrane protein 2; LIR: LC3-interacting region; LMNA: lamin A/C; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MS: mass spectrometry; NBR1: NBR1 autophagy cargo receptor; NCOA4: nuclear receptor coactivator 4; NTA: nanoparticle tracking analysis; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PECA: probe-level expression change averaging; SDCBP/syntenin-1: syndecan binding protein; SD: standard deviation; SE: secreted; sEV: small extracellular vesicles; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TAX1BP1: Tax1 binding protein 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TMT: tandem-mass tag; TSG101: tumor susceptibility 101; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1; WC: whole cell.
PXD030071	35222471	S-Nitrosation of Arabidopsis thaliana Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase 1 Prevents Its Irreversible Oxidation by Hydrogen Peroxide. 	S-nitrosation of Arabidopsis thaliana Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase 1 (AtPTP1) prevents its irreversible oxidation by hydrogen peroxide	H2O2, Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinases, Nitric Oxide, Oxidation, S-nitrosation, post-translational modifications, protein tyrosine phosphatase 1	Tyrosine-specific protein tyrosine phosphatases (Tyr-specific PTPases) are key signaling enzymes catalyzing the removal of the phosphate group from phosphorylated tyrosine residues on target proteins. This post-translational modification notably allows the regulation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades during defense reactions. Arabidopsis thaliana protein tyrosine phosphatase 1 (AtPTP1), the only Tyr-specific PTPase present in this plant, acts as a repressor of H2O2 production and regulates the activity of MPK3/MPK6 MAPKs by direct dephosphorylation. Here, we report that recombinant histidine (His)-AtPTP1 protein activity is directly inhibited by H2O2 and nitric oxide (NO) exogenous treatments. The effects of NO are exerted by S-nitrosation, i.e., the formation of a covalent bond between NO and a reduced cysteine residue. This post-translational modification targets the catalytic cysteine C265 and could protect the AtPTP1 protein from its irreversible oxidation by H2O2. This mechanism of protection could be a conserved mechanism in plant PTPases.
PXD031574	35224468	Multi-omics evaluation of SARS-CoV-2 infected mouse lungs reveals dynamics of host responses. 	Multi-omics evaluation of SARS-CoV-2 infected mouse lungs reveals dynamics of host responses	Dynamics, Lung host response, Mouse model, Multi-omics analysis, SARS-CoV-2	The outbreak of Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) throughout the world has caused millions of death, while the dynamics of host responses and the underlying regulation mechanisms during SARS-CoV-2 infection are not well depicted. Lung tissues from a mouse model sensitized to SARS-CoV-2 infection were serially collected at different time points for evaluation of transcriptome, proteome, and phosphoproteome. We showed the ebb and flow of several host responses in the lung across the viral infection. The signaling pathways and kinases regulating networks were alternated at different phases of infection. This multiplex evaluation also revealed that many kinases of the CDK and MAPK family were interactive and served as functional hubs in mediating the signal transduction during SARS-CoV-2 infection. Our study not only revealed the dynamics of lung pathophysiology and their underlying molecular mechanisms during SARS-CoV-2 infection, but also highlighted some molecules and signaling pathways that might guide future investigations on COVID-19 therapies.
PXD028105	35227284	LAP2alpha preserves genome integrity through assisting RPA deposition on damaged chromatin. 	SILAC-based quantitative mass spectrometry analysis of RPA1-containing protein complex	Immunopurification, RPA1, SILAC	BACKGROUND: Single-stranded DNA (ssDNA) coated with replication protein A (RPA) acts as a key platform for the recruitment and exchange of genome maintenance factors in DNA damage response. Yet, how the formation of the ssDNA-RPA intermediate is regulated remains elusive. RESULTS: Here, we report that the lamin-associated protein LAP2alpha is physically associated with RPA, and LAP2alpha preferentially facilitates RPA deposition on damaged chromatin via physical contacts between LAP2alpha and RPA1. Importantly, LAP2alpha-promoted RPA binding to ssDNA plays a critical role in protection of replication forks, activation of ATR, and repair of damaged DNA. We further demonstrate that the preference of LAP2alpha-promoted RPA loading on damaged chromatin depends on poly ADP-ribose polymerase PARP1, but not poly(ADP-ribosyl)ation. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides mechanistic insight into RPA deposition in response to DNA damage and reveals a genome protection role of LAP2alpha.
PXD023863	35227683	The regulatory strategy of proteins in the mouse kidney during Babesia microti infection. 	Proteins in the kidney of mice infected by Babesia microti	kidney	Babesia is a protozoan that mainly parasitizes mammalian red blood cells. It causes damage to multiple organs of the host, even threatening the life of the host when the infection is severe. This study found that the mouse kidney was injured after Babesia infection, leading to changes such as ischaemia and an abnormal morphology of renal and epithelial cells. Serum tests showed that indices reflecting renal abnormalities (including serum creatinine, uric acid, and bilirubin) appeared to be abnormal. To further explore the molecular mechanism underlying kidney injury and self-healing in infected hosts, we employed a data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics method to investigate large-scale B. microti infection-induced changes in protein expression and phosphorylation in mouse kidneys. This study identified and analysed the reasons for the obvious changes in kidney injury-related proteins, repair-related proteins, immune-related proteins, and lipid metabolism-related proteins. The results provide a strong theoretical basis for effective treatments of the kidney disease caused by Babesia infection.
PXD029356	35227857	Gastrointestinal mucus in dog: Physiological characteristics, composition, and structural properties. 	Label-free and targeted mass tandem (TMT-labelled) global proteomic analyses on mucus from the stomach, small and large intestine of a domestic and laboratory dogs	canine, composition, dog, gastrointestinal, healthy, mucus	Gastrointestinal (GI) mucus is continuously secreted and lines the entire length of the GI tract. Essential for health, it keeps the noxious luminal content away from the epithelium. Our aim was to characterize the composition and structure of mucus throughout the various GI segments in dog. Mucus was collected from the stomach, small intestine (duodenum, jejunum, ileum), and large intestine (cecum, proximal and distal colon) from dogs. Composition was determined by multi-omics. Structural properties were investigated using cryoSEM and rheology. GI mucus contained 74-95% water and maintained a pH around 6.5. The proteome was similar across the different GI segments. The highest abundant secreted gel-forming mucin in the gastric mucus was mucin 5AC, whether mucin 2 had highest abundance in the intestinal mucus. Lipid and metabolite abundance was generally higher in the jejunal mucus than the colonic mucus. CryoSEM microscopy revealed smaller pore size in small intestinal mucus, which increased in the large intestine. All mucus samples showed shear-thinning behavior and characteristics of gel-like structure. In conclusion, the mucus is a highly viscous and hydrated material. These data provide an important baseline for future studies on human and canine intestinal diseases and the dog model in drug absorption.
PXD022113	35228537	HPV infection alters vaginal microbiome through down-regulating host mucosal innate peptides used by Lactobacilli as amino acid sources. 	Protein (elafin) cleavage by the main Lactobacillus spp encountered in the female gynecological tract	Elafin, Lactobacillus	Despite the high prevalence of both cervico-vaginal human papillomavirus (HPV) infection and bacterial vaginosis (BV) worldwide, their causal relationship remains unclear. While BV has been presumed to be a risk factor for HPV acquisition and related carcinogenesis for a long time, here, supported by both a large retrospective follow-up study (n = 6,085) and extensive in vivo data using the K14-HPV16 transgenic mouse model, we report a novel blueprint in which the opposite association also exists. Mechanistically, by interacting with several core members (NEMO, CK1 and beta-TrCP) of both NF-kappaB and Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathways, we show that HPV E7 oncoprotein greatly inhibits host defense peptide expression. Physiologically secreted by the squamous mucosa lining the lower female genital tract, we demonstrate that some of these latter are fundamental factors governing host-microbial interactions. More specifically, several innate molecules down-regulated in case of HPV infection are hydrolyzed, internalized and used by the predominant Lactobacillus species as amino acid source sustaining their growth/survival. Collectively, this study reveals a new viral immune evasion strategy which, by its persistent/negative impact on lactic acid bacteria, ultimately causes the dysbiosis of vaginal microbiota.
PXD011780	35230372	Macrophages secrete murinoglobulin-1 and galectin-3 to regulate neutrophil degranulation after myocardial infarction. 	Proteomic profile of macrophage serectome	heart, macrophage, secretome	Inflammation presides early after myocardial infarction (MI) as a key event in cardiac wound healing. Ischemic cardiomyocytes secrete inflammatory cues to stimulate infiltration of leukocytes, predominantly macrophages and neutrophils. Infiltrating neutrophils degranulate to release a series of proteases including matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-9 to break down extracellular matrix and remove necrotic myocytes to create space for the infarct scar to form. While neutrophil to macrophage communication has been explored, the reverse has been understudied. We used a proteomics approach to catalogue the macrophage secretome at MI day 1. Murinoglobulin-1 (MUG1) was the highest-ranked secreted protein (4.1-fold upregulated at MI day 1 vs. day 0 pre-MI cardiac macrophages, p = 0.004). By transcriptomics evaluation, galectin-3 (Lgals3) was 2.2-fold upregulated (p = 0.008) in MI day 1 macrophages. We explored the direct roles of MUG1 and Lgals3 on neutrophil degranulation. MUG1 blunted while Lgals3 amplified neutrophil degranulation in response to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate or interleukin-1beta, as measured by MMP-9 secretion. Lgals3 itself also stimulated MMP-9 secretion. To determine if MUG1 regulated Lgals3, we co-stimulated neutrophils with MUG1 and Lgals3. MUG1 limited degranulation stimulated by Lgals3 by 64% (p < 0.001). In vivo, MUG1 was elevated in the infarct region at MI days 1 and 3, while Lgals3 increased at MI day 7. The ratio of MUG1 to Lgals3 positively correlated with infarct wall thickness, revealing that MUG1 attenuated infarct wall thinning. In conclusion, macrophages at MI day 1 secrete MUG1 to limit and Lgals3 to accentuate neutrophil degranulation to regulate infarct wall thinning.
PXD018535	35231105	Age-dependent effects of Igf2bp2 on gene regulation, function, and aging of hematopoietic stem cells in mice. 	Igf2bp2 deletion reduces energy metabolism, gIgf2bp2 deletion reduces energy metabolism, growth signaling, and aging of hematopoietic stem cells in micerowth signaling, and aging of hematopoietic stem cells in mice	Igf2bp2 drives glycolysis, mitochondrial metabolism, protein synthesis and mTOR/PI3K-dependent differentiation of hematopoietic stem cells.	Increasing evidence links metabolism, protein synthesis, and growth signaling to impairments in the function of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) during aging. The Lin28b/Hmga2 pathway controls tissue development, and the postnatal downregulation of this pathway limits the self-renewal of adult vs fetal hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs). Igf2bp2 is an RNA binding protein downstream of Lin28b/Hmga2, which regulates messenger RNA stability and translation. The role of Igf2bp2 in HSC aging is unknown. In this study, an analysis of wild-type and Igf2bp2 knockout mice showed that Igf2bp2 regulates oxidative metabolism in HSPCs and the expression of metabolism, protein synthesis, and stemness-related genes in HSCs of young mice. Interestingly, Igf2bp2 expression and function strongly declined in aging HSCs. In young mice, Igf2bp2 deletion mimicked aging-related changes in HSCs, including changes in Igf2bp2 target gene expression and impairment of colony formation and repopulation capacity. In aged mice, Igf2bp2 gene status had no effect on these parameters in HSCs. Unexpectedly, Igf2bp2-deficient mice exhibited an amelioration of the aging-associated increase in HSCs and myeloid-skewed differentiation. The results suggest that Igf2bp2 controls mitochondrial metabolism, protein synthesis, growth, and stemness of young HSCs, which is necessary for full HSC function during young adult age. However, Igf2bp2 gene function is lost during aging, and it appears to contribute to HSC aging in 2 ways: the aging-related loss of Igf2bp2 gene function impairs the growth and repopulation capacity of aging HSCs, and the activity of Igf2bp2 at a young age contributes to aging-associated HSC expansion and myeloid skewing.
PXD028723	35231659	Identification and validation of new ERK substrates by phosphoproteomic technologies including Phos-tag SDS-PAGE. 	Label-free quantitative phosphoproteomics of Î”B-Raf:ER cells treated with U0126 or 4-HT	ERK, LFQ, phosphoproteomics	The extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), a member of the mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase family, governs various cellular processes by phosphorylating a large set of substrates. Although many studies have expanded the number of ERK substrates, it is likely that additional substrates remain to be discovered. Here we have employed a quantitative phosphoproteomic approach to explore novel ERK substrates in NIH3T3 fibroblasts stably expressing a fusion protein between B-Raf and estrogen receptor. Among ERK-dependent phosphorylation targets, we focused on NGFI-A-binding protein 2 (Nab2), forkhead box protein K1 (Foxk1), and Disks large-associated protein 5 (Dlgap5/HURP). Phos-tag SDS-PAGE followed by Western blotting confirmed ERK-dependent phosphorylation of these three proteins in cells. Phos-tag SDS-PAGE of in vitro kinase assay samples revealed high degrees of phosphorylation of these proteins by active ERK. Furthermore, in-gel digestion of the phosphorylated protein bands from Phos-tag SDS-PAGE followed by LC-MS/MS indicated that active ERK directly phosphorylates the same sites in vitro as those observed in cells. This study demonstrates the usefulness of Phos-tag SDS-PAGE for validation of candidate substrates of protein kinases. SIGNIFICANCE: Label-free quantitative phosphoproteomics identified 1439 phosphopeptides derived from 840 proteins that were significantly increased by ERK activation in mouse fibroblasts. Through gene ontology and pathway analysis, we selected three proteins involved in transcriptional regulation and/or tumorigenesis. The identified phosphorylation sites of these proteins conform to the ERK consensus motif and were directly phosphorylated by active ERK in vitro. Phos-tag SDS-PAGE was useful for detecting ERK-mediated phosphorylation of these substrates both in cells and in vitro. Further characterization of these new ERK substrates will be needed to better understand the ERK signaling pathway, and our phosphoproteomic data provide useful information for studying downstream substrates of ERK.
PXD024480	35232816	The key features of SARS-CoV-2 leader and NSP1 required for viral escape of NSP1-mediated repression. 	Nsp1 and Nsp2 interactome and proteome	Cerebrospinal fluid, extracellular vesicle, traumatic brain injury	SARS-CoV-2, responsible for the ongoing global pandemic, must overcome a conundrum faced by all viruses. To achieve its own replication and spread, it simultaneously depends on and subverts cellular mechanisms. At the early stage of infection, SARS-CoV-2 expresses the viral nonstructural protein 1 (NSP1), which inhibits host translation by blocking the mRNA entry tunnel on the ribosome; this interferes with the binding of cellular mRNAs to the ribosome. Viral mRNAs, on the other hand, overcome this blockade. We show that NSP1 enhances expression of mRNAs containing the SARS-CoV-2 leader. The first stem-loop (SL1) in the viral leader is both necessary and sufficient for this enhancement mechanism. Our analysis pinpoints specific residues within SL1 (three cytosine residues at the positions 15, 19, and 20) and another within NSP1 (R124), which are required for viral evasion, and thus might present promising drug targets. We target SL1 with the antisense oligo (ASO) to efficiently and specifically down-regulate SARS-CoV-2 mRNA. Additionally, we carried out analysis of a functional interactome of NSP1 using BioID and identified components of antiviral defense pathways. Our analysis therefore suggests a mechanism by which NSP1 inhibits the expression of host genes while enhancing that of viral RNA. This analysis helps reconcile conflicting reports in the literature regarding the mechanisms by which the virus avoids NSP1 silencing.
PXD031307	35233061	OTUD6A promotes prostate tumorigenesis via deubiquitinating Brg1 and AR. 	OTUD6A promotes prostate tumorigenesis via deubiquitinating Brg1 and AR	MS, OTUD6A, PC-3, VCaP, prostate cancer	Ovarian tumor (OTU) subfamily deubiquitinases are involved in various cellular processes, such as inflammation, ferroptosis and tumorigenesis; however, their pathological roles in prostate cancer (PCa) remain largely unexplored. In this study, we observed that several OTU members displayed genomic amplification in PCa, among which ovarian tumor deubiquitinase 6A (OTUD6A) amplified in the top around 15-20%. Further clinical investigation showed that the OTUD6A protein was highly expressed in prostate tumors, and increased OTUD6A expression correlated with a higher biochemical recurrence risk after prostatectomy. Biologically, wild-type but not a catalytically inactive mutant form of OTUD6A was required for PCa cell progression. In vivo experiments demonstrated that OTUD6A oligonucleotides markedly suppressed prostate tumorigenesis in Pten(PC-/-) mice and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. Mechanistically, the SWI/SNF ATPase subunit Brg1 and the nuclear receptor AR (androgen receptor) were identified as essential substrates for OTUD6A in PCa cells by a mass spectrometry (MS) screening approach. Furthermore, OTUD6A stabilized these two proteins by erasing the K27-linked polyubiquitination of Brg1 and K11-linked polyubiquitination of AR. OTUD6A amplification exhibited strong mutual exclusivity with mutations in the tumor suppressors FBXW7 and SPOP. Collectively, our results indicate the therapeutic potential of targeting OTUD6A as a deubiquitinase of Brg1 and AR for PCa treatment.
PXD027242	35234472	Data-Independent Acquisition Protease-Multiplexing Enables Increased Proteome Sequence Coverage Across Multiple Fragmentation Modes. 	Data-independent acquisition protease-multiplexing enables increased proteome sequence coverage across multiple fragmentation modes	AspN, DIA, GluC, multiplexing	The use of multiple proteases has been shown to increase protein sequence coverage in proteomics experiments; however, due to the additional analysis time required, it has not been widely adopted in routine data-dependent acquisition (DDA) proteomic workflows. Alternatively, data-independent acquisition (DIA) has the potential to analyze multiplexed samples from different protease digests, but has been primarily optimized for fragmenting tryptic peptides. Here we evaluate a DIA multiplexing approach that combines three proteolytic digests (Trypsin, AspN, and GluC) into a single sample. We first optimize data acquisition conditions for each protease individually with both the canonical DIA fragmentation mode (beam type CID), as well as resonance excitation CID, to determine optimal consensus conditions across proteases. Next, we demonstrate that application of these conditions to a protease-multiplexed sample of human peptides results in similar protein identifications and quantitative performance as compared to trypsin alone, but enables up to a 63% increase in peptide detections, and a 45% increase in nonredundant amino acid detections. Nontryptic peptides enabled noncanonical protein isoform determination and resulted in 100% sequence coverage for numerous proteins, suggesting the utility of this approach in applications where sequence coverage is critical, such as protein isoform analysis.
PXD026448	35235327	FAIMS Enhances the Detection of PTM Crosstalk Sites. 	FAIMS enhances the detection of PTM crosstalk sites	FAIMS, LC-MS, crosstalk, interplay, post-translational modifications	Protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) enable cells to rapidly change in response to biological stimuli. With hundreds of different PTMs, understanding these control mechanisms is complex. To date, efforts have focused on investigating the effect of a single PTM on protein function. Yet, many proteins contain multiple PTMs. Moreover, one PTM can alter the prevalence of another, a phenomenon termed PTM crosstalk. Understanding PTM crosstalk is critical; however, its detection is challenging since PTMs occur substoichiometrically. Here, we develop an enrichment-free, label-free proteomics method that utilizes high-field asymmetric ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) to enhance the detection of PTM crosstalk. We show that by searching for multiple combinations of dynamic PTMs on peptide sequences, a 6-fold increase in candidate PTM crosstalk sites is identified compared with that of standard liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) workflows. Additionally, by cycling through FAIMS compensation voltages within a single LC-FAIMS-MS/MS run, we show that our LC-FAIMS-MS/MS workflow can increase multi-PTM-containing peptide identifications without additional increases in run times. With 159 novel candidate crosstalk sites identified, we envisage LC-FAIMS-MS/MS to play an important role in expanding the repertoire of multi-PTM identifications. Moreover, it is only by detecting PTM crosstalk that we can "see" the full picture of how proteins are regulated.
PXD026287	35236848	Two zinc finger proteins with functions in m(6)A writing interact with HAKAI. 	Two zinc finger proteins with functions in m6A writing interact with HAKAI	HAKAI, N6-methyladenosine (m6A), in vivo crosslinking, zinc finger proteins	The methyltransferase complex (m(6)A writer), which catalyzes the deposition of N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) in mRNAs, is highly conserved across most eukaryotic organisms, but its components and interactions between them are still far from fully understood. Here, using in vivo interaction proteomics, two HAKAI-interacting zinc finger proteins, HIZ1 and HIZ2, are discovered as components of the Arabidopsis m(6)A writer complex. HAKAI is required for the interaction between HIZ1 and MTA (mRNA adenosine methylase A). Whilst HIZ1 knockout plants have normal levels of m(6)A, plants in which it is overexpressed show reduced methylation and decreased lateral root formation. Mutant plants lacking HIZ2 are viable but have an 85% reduction in m(6)A abundance and show severe developmental defects. Our findings suggest that HIZ2 is likely the plant equivalent of ZC3H13 (Flacc) of the metazoan m(6)A-METTL Associated Complex.
PXD031110	35236967	PLK1 inhibition selectively induces apoptosis in ARID1A deficient cells through uncoupling of oxygen consumption from ATP production. 	PLK1 inhibition selectively induces apoptosis in ARID1A deficient cells through uncoupling of oxygen consumption from ATP production	ARID1A, PLK1, mitochondria, oxidative phosphorylation, synthetic lethality	Inhibitors of the mitotic kinase PLK1 yield objective responses in a subset of refractory cancers. However, PLK1 overexpression in cancer does not correlate with drug sensitivity, and the clinical development of PLK1 inhibitors has been hampered by the lack of patient selection marker. Using a high-throughput chemical screen, we discovered that cells deficient for the tumor suppressor ARID1A are highly sensitive to PLK1 inhibition. Interestingly this sensitivity was unrelated to canonical functions of PLK1 in mediating G2/M cell cycle transition. Instead, a whole-genome CRISPR screen revealed PLK1 inhibitor sensitivity in ARID1A deficient cells to be dependent on the mitochondrial translation machinery. We find that ARID1A knock-out (KO) cells have an unusual mitochondrial phenotype with aberrant biogenesis, increased oxygen consumption/expression of oxidative phosphorylation genes, but without increased ATP production. Using expansion microscopy and biochemical fractionation, we see that a subset of PLK1 localizes to the mitochondria in interphase cells. Inhibition of PLK1 in ARID1A KO cells further uncouples oxygen consumption from ATP production, with subsequent membrane depolarization and apoptosis. Knockdown of specific subunits of the mitochondrial ribosome reverses PLK1-inhibitor induced apoptosis in ARID1A deficient cells, confirming specificity of the phenotype. Together, these findings highlight a novel interphase role for PLK1 in maintaining mitochondrial fitness under metabolic stress, and a strategy for therapeutic use of PLK1 inhibitors. To translate these findings, we describe a quantitative microscopy assay for assessment of ARID1A protein loss, which could offer a novel patient selection strategy for the clinical development of PLK1 inhibitors in cancer.
PXD029966	35236989	Establishment of fetomaternal tolerance through glycan-mediated B cell suppression. 	Establishment of fetomaternal tolerance via glycan-mediated B cell suppression	B cells, CD22, Placenta glycoproteins, fetomaternal tolerance, sialic acid	Discrimination of self from non-self is fundamental to a wide range of immunological processes(1). During pregnancy, the mother does not recognize the placenta as immunologically foreign because antigens expressed by trophoblasts, the placental cells that interface with the maternal immune system, do not activate maternal T cells(2). Currently, these activation defects are thought to reflect suppression by regulatory T cells(3). By contrast, mechanisms of B cell tolerance to trophoblast antigens have not been identified. Here we provide evidence that glycan-mediated B cell suppression has a key role in establishing fetomaternal tolerance in mice. B cells specific for a model trophoblast antigen are strongly suppressed through CD22-LYN inhibitory signalling, which in turn implicates the sialylated glycans of the antigen as key suppressive determinants. Moreover, B cells mediate the MHC-class-II-restricted presentation of antigens to CD4(+) T cells, which leads to T cell suppression, and trophoblast-derived sialoglycoproteins are released into the maternal circulation during pregnancy in mice and humans. How protein glycosylation promotes non-immunogenic placental self-recognition may have relevance to immune-mediated pregnancy complications and to tumour immune evasion. We also anticipate that our findings will bolster efforts to harness glycan biology to control antigen-specific immune responses in autoimmune disease.
PXD029119	35238645	Eukaryotic catecholamine hormones influence the chemotactic control of Vibrio campbellii by binding to the coupling protein CheW. 	Eukaryotic catecholamine hormones influence the chemotactic  control of Vibrio campbellii by binding to the coupling protein CheW	Epinephrine, Orbitrap Fusion, Phenylephrine, Q Exactive Plus, V. campbellii	SignificanceHost-emitted stress hormones significantly influence the growth and behavior of various bacterial species; however, their cellular targets have so far remained elusive. Here, we used customized probes and quantitative proteomics to identify the target of epinephrine and the alpha-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine in live cells of the aquatic pathogen Vibrio campbellii. Consequently, we have discovered the coupling protein CheW, which is in the center of the chemotaxis signaling network, as a target of both molecules. We not only demonstrate direct ligand binding to CheW but also elucidate how this affects chemotactic control. These findings are pivotal for further research on hormone-specific effects on bacterial behavior.
PXD025716	35239002	Upstream open reading frames regulate translation of cancer-associated transcripts and encode HLA-presented immunogenic tumor antigens. 	Upstream open reading frames regulate proto-oncogene translation and encode HLA-presented immunogenic tumor antigens	HLA peptides, cancer, immunopeptidomics, immunotherapy, uORF	BACKGROUND: Upstream open reading frames (uORFs) represent translational control elements within eukaryotic transcript leader sequences. Recent data showed that uORFs can encode for biologically active proteins and human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-presented peptides in malignant and benign cells suggesting their potential role in cancer cell development and survival. However, the role of uORFs in translational regulation of cancer-associated transcripts as well as in cancer immune surveillance is still incompletely understood. METHODS: We examined the translational regulatory effect of 29 uORFs in 13 cancer-associated genes by dual-luciferase assays. Cellular expression and localization of uORF-encoded peptides (uPeptides) were investigated by immunoblotting and immunofluorescence-based microscopy. Furthermore, we utilized mass spectrometry-based immunopeptidome analyses in an extensive dataset of primary malignant and benign tissue samples for the identification of naturally presented uORF-derived HLA-presented peptides screening for more than 2000 uORFs. RESULTS: We provide experimental evidence for similarly effective translational regulation of cancer-associated transcripts through uORFs initiated by either canonical AUG codons or by alternative translation initiation sites (aTISs). We further demonstrate frequent cellular expression and reveal occasional specific cellular localization of uORF-derived peptides, suggesting uPeptide-specific biological implications. Immunopeptidome analyses delineated a set of 125 naturally presented uORF-derived HLA-presented peptides. Comparative immunopeptidome profiling of malignant and benign tissue-derived immunopeptidomes identified several tumor-associated uORF-derived HLA ligands capable to induce multifunctional T cell responses. CONCLUSION: Our data provide direct evidence for the frequent expression of uPeptides in benign and malignant human tissues, suggesting a potentially widespread function of uPeptides in cancer biology. These findings may inspire novel approaches in direct molecular as well as immunotherapeutic targeting of cancer-associated uORFs and uPeptides.
PXD028490	35239305	Phosphoproteome Profiling Using an Isobaric Carrier without the Need for Phosphoenrichment. 	Phosphoproteome profiling using the isobaric carrier without the need for phosphoenrichment	Phosphoproteome, TMT, carrier, isobaric labeling, quantitative proteomics	Phosphorylation is a crucial component of cellular signaling cascades. It controls a variety of biological cellular functions, including cell growth and apoptosis. Owing to the low stoichiometry of phosphorylated proteins, the enrichment of phosphopeptides prior to LC-MS/MS is necessary for comprehensive phosphoproteome analysis, and quantitative phosphoproteomic workflows are typically limited by the amount of sample required. To address this issue, we developed an easy-to-establish, widely applicable, and reproducible strategy to increase phosphoproteomic signals from a small amount of sample without a phosphoenrichment step. By exploiting the multiplexing nature of isobaric labeling to generate a merged signal from multiple samples, and using a larger amount of enriched phosphopeptides as a carrier, we were able to increase trace amounts of phosphopeptides in the unpurified sample to an identifiable level and perform quantification using the reporter ion intensity of the isobaric tag. Our results showed that >1400 phosphopeptides were quantified from 250 ng of tryptic peptides prepared from cells. In a proof-of-concept of our strategy, we distinguished three types of lung cancer cell lines based on their quantitative phosphoproteomic data and identified changes in the phosphoproteome induced by drug treatment.
PXD045682	35239328	A Tyrosine Phosphoproteome Analysis Approach Enabled by Selective Dephosphorylation with Protein Tyrosine Phosphatase. 	[HPP-2.0] A tyrosine phosphoproteome analysis approach enabled by selective dephosphorylation with protein tyrosine phosphatase	Phospho-Proteome	Protein tyrosine phosphorylation (pTyr) plays a prominent role in signal transduction and regulation in all eukaryotic cells. In conventional immunoaffinity purification (IP) methods, phosphotyrosine peptides are isolated from the digest of cellular protein extracts with a phosphotyrosine-specific antibody and are identified by tandem mass spectrometry. However, low sensitivity, poor reproducibility, and high cost are universal concerns for IP approaches. In this study, we presented an antibody-free approach to identify phosphotyrosine peptides by using protein tyrosine phosphatase (PTP). It was found that most of the PTPs including PTP1B, TCPTP, and SHP1 can efficiently and selectively dephosphorylate phosphotyrosine peptides. We then designed a workflow by combining two Ti(4+)-IMAC-based phosphopeptide enrichment steps with PTP-catalyzed dephosphorylation for tyrosine phosphoproteomics analysis. This workflow was first validated by selective detection of phosphotyrosine peptides from semicomplex samples and then applied to analyze the tyrosine phosphoproteome of Jurkat T cells. Around 1000 putative former phosphotyrosine peptides were identified from less than 500 mug of cell lysate. The tyrosine phosphosites on the majority of these peptides could be unambiguously determined for over 70% of them possessing only one tyrosine residue. It was also found that the tyrosine sites identified by this method were highly complementary to those identified by the SH2 superbinder-based method. Therefore, the combination of Ti(4+)-IMAC enrichment with PTP dephosphorylation provides an alternative and cost-effective approach for tyrosine phosphoproteomics analysis.
PXD031700	35239437	O-GlcNAcylation regulates epidermal growth factor receptor intracellular trafficking and signaling. 	O-GlcNAcylation regulates epidermal growth factor receptor intracellular trafficking and signaling	EGFR, O-GlcNAcylation, endosomal sorting, membrane receptors	SignificanceEpidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is one of the most important membrane receptors that transduce growth signals into cells to sustain cell growth, proliferation, and survival. EGFR signal termination is initiated by EGFR internalization, followed by trafficking through endosomes, and degradation in lysosomes. How this process is regulated is still poorly understood. Here, we show that hepatocyte growth factor regulated tyrosine kinase substrate (HGS), a key protein in the EGFR trafficking pathway, is dynamically modified by a single sugar N-acetylglucosamine. This modification inhibits EGFR trafficking from endosomes to lysosomes, leading to the accumulation of EGFR and prolonged signaling. This study provides an important insight into diseases with aberrant growth factor signaling, such as cancer, obesity, and diabetes.
PXD022776	35239512	Upregulated YB-1 protein promotes glioblastoma growth through a YB-1/CCT4/mLST8/mTOR pathway. 	the function of RNA Binding Protrein in cancer	IP-Mass Spectrum, RBP, cancer	Y-box-binding protein 1 (YB-1) is a multifunctional RNA binding protein involved in virtually every step of RNA metabolism. However, the functions and mechanisms of YB-1 in one of the most aggressive cancers, glioblastoma, are not well understood. In this study, we found that YB-1 protein was markedly overexpressed in glioblastoma and acted as a critical activator of both mTORC1 and mTORC2 signaling. Mechanistically, YB-1 bound the 5'UTR of CCT4 mRNA to promote the translation of CCT4, a component of the CCT chaperone complex, that in turn activated the mTOR signaling pathway by promoting mLST8 folding. In addition, YB-1 autoregulated its own translation by binding to its 5'UTR, leading to sustained activation of mTOR signaling. In patients with glioblastoma, high protein expression of YB-1 correlated with increased expression of CCT4 and mLST8 and activated mTOR signaling. Importantly, the administration of RNA decoys specifically targeting YB-1 in a mouse xenograft model resulted in slower tumor growth and better survival. Taken together, these findings uncover a disrupted proteostasis pathway involving a YB-1/CCT4/mLST8/mTOR axis in promoting glioblastoma growth, suggesting that YB-1 is a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of glioblastoma.
PXD029784	35240312	Absolute quantification of viral proteins during single-round replication of MDCK suspension cells. 	Absolute quantification of influenza virus proteins	AQUA peptides, MDCK cells, absolute quantification, influenza A virus	Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells are widely used in basic research and for the propagation of influenza A viruses (IAV) for vaccine production. To identify targets for antiviral therapies and to optimize vaccine manufacturing, a detailed understanding of the viral life cycle is important. This includes the characterization of virus entry, the synthesis of the various viral RNAs and proteins, the transfer of viral compounds in the cell and virus budding. In case quantitative information is available, the analysis can be complemented by mathematical modelling approaches. While comprehensive studies focusing on IAV entry as well as viral mRNA, vRNA and cRNA accumulation in the nucleus of cells have been performed, quantitative data regarding IAV protein synthesis and accumulation was mostly lacking. In this study, we present a mass spectrometry (MS)-based method to evaluate whether an absolute quantification of viral proteins is possible for single-round replication in suspension MDCK cells. Using influenza A/PR/8/34 (H1N1, RKI) as a model strain at a multiplicity of infection of ten, defined amounts of isotopically labelled peptides of synthetic origin of four IAV proteins (hemagglutinin, neuraminidase, nucleoprotein, matrix protein 1) were added as an internal standard before tryptic digestion of samples for absolute quantification (AQUA). The first intracellular protein detected was NP at 1 h post infection (hpi). A maximum extracellular concentration of 7.7E+12 copies/mL was achieved. This was followed by hemagglutinin (3 hpi, maximum 4.1E+12 copies/mL at 13 hpi), matrix protein 1 (5 hpi, maximum 2.2E+12 copies/mL at 13 hpi) and neuraminidase (5 hpi, 6.0E+11 copies/mL at 13 hpi). In sum, for the first time absolute IAV protein copy numbers were quantified by a MS-based method for infected MDCK cells providing important insights into viral protein dynamics during single-round virus replication. SIGNIFICANCE: Influenza A virus is a significant human pathogen worldwide. To improve therapies against influenza and overcome bottlenecks in vaccine production in cell culture, it is critical to gain a detailed understanding of the viral life cycle. In addition to qPCR-based models, this study will examine the dynamics of influenza virus proteins during infection of producer cells to gain initial insights into changes in absolute copy numbers.
PXD019588	35241478	NMD is required for timely cell fate transitions by fine-tuning gene expression and regulating translation. 	Interactome of Eif4a2 in mouse embryonic stem cells	Eif4a2, mouse embryonic stem cells	Cell fate transitions depend on balanced rewiring of transcription and translation programs to mediate ordered developmental progression. Components of the nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) pathway have been implicated in regulating embryonic stem cell (ESC) differentiation, but the exact mechanism is unclear. Here we show that NMD controls expression levels of the translation initiation factor Eif4a2 and its premature termination codon-encoding isoform (Eif4a2PTC ). NMD deficiency leads to translation of the truncated eIF4A2(PTC) protein. eIF4A2(PTC) elicits increased mTORC1 activity and translation rates and causes differentiation delays. This establishes a previously unknown feedback loop between NMD and translation initiation. Furthermore, our results show a clear hierarchy in the severity of target deregulation and differentiation phenotypes between NMD effector KOs (Smg5 KO > Smg6 KO > Smg7 KO), which highlights heterodimer-independent functions for SMG5 and SMG7. Together, our findings expose an intricate link between mRNA homeostasis and mTORC1 activity that must be maintained for normal dynamics of cell state transitions.
PXD030325	35241737	Proteomic analysis distinguishes extracellular vesicles produced by cancerous versus healthy pancreatic organoids. 	Proteomic analysis distinguishes extracellular vesicles produced by cancerous versus healthy pancreatic organoids	EV markers, PDAC, biomarkers, extracellular vesicles, high resolution flow cytometry, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are produced and released by both healthy and malignant cells and bear markers indicative of ongoing biological processes. In the present study we utilized high resolution flow cytometry to detect EVs in the plasma of patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) and in the supernatants of PDAC and healthy control (HC) pancreatic organoid cultures. Using ultrafiltration and size exclusion chromatography, PDAC and HC pancreatic organoid EVs were isolated for mass spectrometry analysis. Proteomic and functional protein network analysis showed a striking distinction in that EV proteins profiled in pancreatic cancer organoids were involved in vesicular transport and tumorigenesis while EV proteins in healthy organoids were involved in cellular homeostasis. Thus, the most abundant proteins identified in either case represented non-overlapping cellular programs. Tumor-promoting candidates LAMA5, SDCBP and TENA were consistently upregulated in PDAC EVs. Validation of specific markers for PDAC EVs versus healthy pancreatic EVs will provide the biomarkers and enhanced sensitivity necessary to monitor early disease or disease progression, with or without treatment. Moreover, disease-associated changes in EV protein profiles provide an opportunity to investigate alterations in cellular programming with disease progression.
PXD030984	35242038	Itraconazole Inhibits the Growth of Cutaneous Squamous Cell Carcinoma by Targeting HMGCS1/ACSL4 Axis. 	Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma A431 cells with itraconazole	A431, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP), itraconazole	Background: Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) is a common cutaneous cancer with increasing incidence. Itraconazole has been identified as a potential anticancer drug candidate. However, the role of itraconazole in cSCC was still unclear. Our objective is exploring the therapeutic potential of itraconazole in cSCC and investigate its molecular mechanism. Methods: The anti-proliferation effect of itraconazole was tested with CCK-8 assay and clone formation assay. Cell cycle distribution and apoptosis rate were detected using flow cytometry and TUNEL assay, respectively. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were used to explore the underlying anti-cancer mechanism. Luciferase reporter assay was used for promoter activity. Reactive oxygen species (ROS), lipid peroxidation and iron accumulation were examined. The in vivo efficacy of itraconazole was assessed in a xenograft model. Results: Itraconazole inhibited the cell proliferation, induced apoptosis and blocked cell cycle of cSCC cells. An integrated analysis of transcriptomic and proteomic analyses identified that 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-CoA synthase 1 (HMGCS1) and acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4) were significantly upregulated in A431 cells treated with itraconazole. HMGCS1 silencing reversed the antiproliferative activity of itraconazole in A431 cells. Dual-luciferase assay showed that itraconazole could promote HMGCS1 transcription. HMGCS1 silencing abated the expression of ACSL4 in A431 cells. The level of ROS, lipid peroxidation, as well as iron accumulation were increased by itraconazole. Moreover, treatment with itraconazole impeded tumor growth in A431-bearing mice. Conclusion: We proved itraconazole inhibits the growth of cSCC by regulating HMGCS1/ACSL4 axis.
PXD027833	35242040	TMT-Based Quantitative Proteomics Analysis Reveals the Panoramic Pharmacological Molecular Mechanism of beta-Elemonic Acid Inhibition of Colorectal Cancer. 	Elemonic acid inhibits colorectal cancer	EA inhibits CRC	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is one of the most common cancers worldwide but has limited available therapeutic methods; therefore, there is a need to develop highly efficient prevention and treatment strategies. Here, we investigated the anti-cancer activity of beta-elemonic acid (EA) in CRC in vitro and in vivo. Our results showed that EA inhibited cell proliferation and migration in the CRC cell lines SW480 and HCT116. Moreover, EA significantly suppressed the growth of transplanted colorectal tumors in nude mice. Interestingly, high-throughput tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics indicated that EA mainly targets tumor mitochondria and attenuates the translation of 54 mitochondrial ribosome proteins, many of which are discovered significantly upregulated in clinical CRC patients. More interestingly, EA at a low concentration (lower than 15 mug/ml) repressed the cell cycle by downregulating CDK1, CDK6, and CDC20, whereas at a high concentration (higher than 15 mug/ml), caused a non-apoptotic cell death-ferroptosis via downregulating ferritin (FTL) and upregulating transferrin (TF), ferroxidase (CP), and acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 4 (ACSL4). This is the first report on the panoramic molecular mechanism of EA against CRC, which would make great contributions to developing a novel drug for colorectal cancer therapy.
PXD030524	35243415	SU086, an inhibitor of HSP90, impairs glycolysis and represents a treatment strategy for advanced prostate cancer. 	SU086 Treatment for Advanced Prostate Cancer	CETSA, cell lines, prostate cancer	Among men, prostate cancer is the second leading cause of cancer-associated mortality, with advanced disease remaining a major clinical challenge. We describe a small molecule, SU086, as a therapeutic strategy for advanced prostate cancer. We demonstrate that SU086 inhibits the growth of prostate cancer cells in vitro, cell-line and patient-derived xenografts in vivo, and ex vivo prostate cancer patient specimens. Furthermore, SU086 in combination with standard of care second-generation anti-androgen therapies displays increased impairment of prostate cancer cell and tumor growth in vitro and in vivo. Cellular thermal shift assay reveals that SU086 binds to heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) and leads to a decrease in HSP90 levels. Proteomic profiling demonstrates that SU086 binds to and decreases HSP90. Metabolomic profiling reveals that SU086 leads to perturbation of glycolysis. Our study identifies SU086 as a treatment for advanced prostate cancer as a single agent or when combined with second-generation anti-androgens.
PXD026988	35243582	T-Type Calcium Channel Inhibitors Induce Apoptosis in Medulloblastoma Cells Associated with Altered Metabolic Activity. 	T-type calcium channel inhibitors induce apoptosis in medulloblastoma cells associated with altered metabolic activity	CaV3 inhibitors, Medulloblastoma, apoptosis, calcium channels, therapy	Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most common malignant paediatric brain tumour. In our previous studies, we developed a novel 3D assay for MB cells that was used to screen a panel of plasma membrane calcium channel modulators for their effect on the 3D growth of D341 MB cells. These studies identified T-type (CaV3) channel inhibitors, mibefradil and NNC-55-0396 (NNC) as selective inhibitors of MB cell growth. Mibefradil was originally approved for the treatment of hypertension and angina pectoris, and recently successfully completed a phase I trial for recurrent high-grade glioma. NNC is an analogue of mibefradil with multiple advantages compared to mibefradil that makes it attractive for potential future clinical trials. T-type channels have a unique low voltage-dependent activation/inactivation, and many studies suggest that they have a direct regulatory role in controlling Ca(2+) signalling in non-excitable tissues, including cancers. In our previous study, we also identified overexpression of CaV3.2 gene in MB tissues compared to normal brain tissues. In this study, we aimed to characterise the effect of mibefradil and NNC on MB cells and elucidate their mechanism of action. This study demonstrates that the induction of toxicity in MB cells is selective to T-type but not to L-type Ca(2+) channel inhibitors. Addition of CaV3 inhibitors to vincristine sensitised MB cells to this MB chemotherapeutic agent, suggesting an additive effect. Furthermore, CaV3 inhibitors induced cell death in MB cells via apoptosis. Supported by proteomics data and cellular assays, apoptotic cell death was associated with reduced mitochondrial membrane potential and reduced ATP levels, which suggests that both compounds alter the metabolism of MB cells. This study offers new insights into the action of mibefradil and NNC and will pave the way to test these molecules or their analogues in pre-clinical MB models alone and in combination with vincristine to assess their suitability as a potential MB therapy.
PXD029644	35245040	In-Depth Profiling of O-Glycan Isomers in Human Cells Using C18 Nanoliquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry and Glycogenomics. 	C18  nanoLC-MS and Glycogenomics to Facilitate O-Glycan profiling in Human Cells	Glycogenomics, Glycomics, HEK293, Keratinocytes, O-Glycan	O-Glycosylation is an omnipresent modification of the human proteome affecting many cellular functions, including protein cleavage, protein folding, and cellular signaling, interactions, and trafficking. The functions are governed by differentially regulated O-glycan types and terminal structures. It is therefore essential to develop analytical methods that facilitate the annotation of O-glycans in biological material. While various successful strategies for the in-depth profiling of released O-glycans have been reported, these methods are often limitedly accessible to the nonspecialist or challenged by the high abundance of O-glycan structural isomers. Here, we developed a high-throughput sample preparation approach for the nonreductive release and characterization of O-glycans from human cell material. Reducing-end labeling allowed efficient isomer separation and detection using C18 nanoliquid chromatography coupled to Orbitrap mass spectrometry. Using the method in combination with a library of genetically glycoengineered cells displaying defined O-glycan types and structures, we were able to annotate individual O-glycan structural isomers from a complex mixture. Applying the method in a model system of human keratinocytes, we found a wide variety of O-glycan structures, including O-fucose, O-glucose, O-GlcNAc, and O-GalNAc glycosylation, with the latter carrying both elongated core1 and core2 structures and varying numbers of fucoses and sialic acids. The method, including the now well-characterized standards, provides the opportunity to study glycomic changes in human tissue and disease models using rather mainstream analytical equipment.
PXD028007	35245447	The proteogenomic subtypes of acute myeloid leukemia. 	The Proteogenomic Subtypes of Acute Myeloid Leukemia	Acute Myeloid Leukemia, CD34 cells, Healthy Controls	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive blood cancer with a poor prognosis. We report a comprehensive proteogenomic analysis of bone marrow biopsies from 252 uniformly treated AML patients to elucidate the molecular pathophysiology of AML in order to inform future diagnostic and therapeutic approaches. In addition to in-depth quantitative proteomics, our analysis includes cytogenetic profiling and DNA/RNA sequencing. We identify five proteomic AML subtypes, each reflecting specific biological features spanning genomic boundaries. Two of these proteomic subtypes correlate with patient outcome, but none is exclusively associated with specific genomic aberrations. Remarkably, one subtype (Mito-AML), which is captured only in the proteome, is characterized by high expression of mitochondrial proteins and confers poor outcome, with reduced remission rate and shorter overall survival on treatment with intensive induction chemotherapy. Functional analyses reveal that Mito-AML is metabolically wired toward stronger complex I-dependent respiration and is more responsive to treatment with the BCL2 inhibitor venetoclax.
PXD031209	35246531	Oxygen-sensitive methylation of ULK1 is required for hypoxia-induced autophagy. 	Oxygen-sensitive methylation of ULK1 is required for hypoxia-induced autophagy	ULK1, hypoxia	Hypoxia is a physiological stress that frequently occurs in solid tissues. Autophagy, a ubiquitous degradation/recycling system in eukaryotic cells, renders cells tolerant to multiple stressors. However, the mechanisms underlying autophagy initiation upon hypoxia remains unclear. Here we show that protein arginine methyltransferase 5 (PRMT5) catalyzes symmetrical dimethylation of the autophagy initiation protein ULK1 at arginine 170 (R170me2s), a modification removed by lysine demethylase 5C (KDM5C). Despite unchanged PRMT5-mediated methylation, low oxygen levels decrease KDM5C activity and cause accumulation of ULK1 R170me2s. Dimethylation of ULK1 promotes autophosphorylation at T180, a prerequisite for ULK1 activation, subsequently causing phosphorylation of Atg13 and Beclin 1, autophagosome formation, mitochondrial clearance and reduced oxygen consumption. Further, expression of a ULK1 R170K mutant impaired cell proliferation under hypoxia. This study identifies an oxygen-sensitive methylation of ULK1 with an important role in hypoxic stress adaptation by promoting autophagy induction.
PXD030122	35247383	Identification and characterization of Crumbs polarity complex proteins in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	AP-MS of MAGU-2 in the nematode C. elegans	C. elegans, Crumbs, MAGU-2, Pals1	Crumbs proteins are evolutionarily conserved transmembrane proteins with essential roles in promoting the formation of the apical domain in epithelial cells. The short intracellular tail of Crumbs proteins are known to interact with several proteins, including the scaffolding protein PALS1 (protein associated with LIN7, Stardust in Drosophila). PALS1 in turn binds to a second scaffolding protein PATJ (PALS1-associated tight junction protein) to form the core Crumbs/PALS1/PATJ complex. While essential roles in epithelial organization have been shown for Crumbs proteins in Drosophila and mammalian systems, the three Caenorhabditis elegans crumbs genes are dispensable for epithelial polarization and development. Here, we investigated the presence and function of PALS1 and PATJ orthologs in C. elegans. We identified MAGU-2 as the C. elegans ortholog of PALS1 and show that MAGU-2 interacts with all three Crumbs proteins and localizes to the apical membrane domain of intestinal epithelial cells in a Crumbs-dependent fashion. Similar to crumbs mutants, magu-2 deletion showed no epithelial polarity defects. We also identified MPZ-1 as a candidate ortholog of PATJ based on the physical interaction with MAGU-2 and sequence similarity with PATJ proteins. However, MPZ-1 is not broadly expressed in epithelial tissues and, therefore, not likely a core component of the C. elegans Crumbs complex. Finally, we show overexpression of the Crumbs proteins EAT-20 or CRB-3 can lead to apical membrane expansion in the intestine. Our results shed light on the composition of the C. elegans Crumbs complex and indicate that the role of Crumbs proteins in promoting apical domain formation is conserved.
PXD030418	35247384	Methyltransferase METTL8 is required for 3-methylcytosine modification in human mitochondrial tRNAs. 	METTL8 is required for 3-methylcytosine modification in human mitochondrial tRNAs	3-methylcytosine, METTL8, m3C, mitochondria, tRNA, tRNA modification	A subset of eukaryotic tRNAs is methylated in the anticodon loop, forming 3-methylcytosine (m(3)C) modifications. In mammals, the number of tRNAs containing m(3)C modifications has been expanded to include mitochondrial (mt) tRNA-Ser-UGA and mt-tRNA-Thr-UGU. However, whereas the enzymes catalyzing m(3)C formation in nuclear-encoded tRNAs have been identified, the proteins responsible for m(3)C modification in mt-tRNAs are unknown. Here, we show that m(3)C formation in human mt-tRNAs is dependent upon the methyltransferase-Like 8 (METTL8) enzyme. We find that METTL8 is a mitochondria-associated protein that interacts with mitochondrial seryl-tRNA synthetase, as well as with mt-tRNAs containing m(3)C. We demonstrate that human cells deficient in METTL8 exhibit loss of m(3)C modification in mt-tRNAs, but not nuclear-encoded tRNAs. Consistent with the mitochondrial import of METTL8, the formation of m(3)C in METTL8-deficient cells could be rescued by re-expression of WT METTL8, but not by a METTL8 variant lacking the N-terminal mitochondrial localization signal. Notably, we found METTL8-deficiency in human cells causes alterations in the native migration pattern of mt-tRNA-Ser-UGA, suggesting a role for m(3)C in tRNA folding. Altogether, these findings demonstrate that METTL8 is required for m(3)C formation in mt-tRNAs and uncover a potential function for m(3)C modification in mitochondrial tRNA structure.
PXD029885	35247390	Exploring the glycosylation of mucins by use of O-glycodomain reporters recombinantly expressed in glycoengineered HEK293 cells. 	Exploring glycosylation of mucins with O-glycodomain reporters expressed in glycoengineered HEK293 cells	O-glycodomains, cell-based glycan array, glycoengineering, glycomucinases, glycosylation, glycosyltransferases, intact mass, mucins	Mucins and glycoproteins with mucin-like regions contain densely O-glycosylated domains often found in tandem repeat (TR) sequences. These O-glycodomains have traditionally been difficult to characterize because of their resistance to proteolytic digestion, and knowledge of the precise positions of O-glycans is particularly limited for these regions. Here, we took advantage of a recently developed glycoengineered cell-based platform for the display and production of mucin TR reporters with custom-designed O-glycosylation to characterize O-glycodomains derived from mucins and mucin-like glycoproteins. We combined intact mass and bottom-up site-specific analysis for mapping O-glycosites in the mucins, MUC2, MUC20, MUC21, protein P-selectin-glycoprotein ligand 1, and proteoglycan syndecan-3. We found that all the potential Ser/Thr positions in these O-glycodomains were O-glycosylated when expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 SimpleCells (Tn-glycoform). Interestingly, we found that all potential Ser/Thr O-glycosites in TRs derived from secreted mucins and most glycosites from transmembrane mucins were almost fully occupied, whereas TRs from a subset of transmembrane mucins were less efficiently processed. We further used the mucin TR reporters to characterize cleavage sites of glycoproteases StcE (secreted protease of C1 esterase inhibitor from EHEC) and BT4244, revealing more restricted substrate specificities than previously reported. Finally, we conducted a bottom-up analysis of isolated ovine submaxillary mucin, which supported our findings that mucin TRs in general are efficiently O-glycosylated at all potential glycosites. This study provides insight into O-glycosylation of mucins and mucin-like domains, and the strategies developed open the field for wider analysis of native mucins.
PXD027091	35248034	Plasma proteome changes linked to late phase response after inhaled allergen challenge in asthmatics. 	Human plasma proteome changes during inhaled allergen challenge	Allergy, Asthma, Late phase response, Plasma	BACKGROUND: A subset of individuals with allergic asthma develops a late phase response (LPR) to inhaled allergens, which is characterized by a prolonged airway obstruction, airway inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness. The aim of this study was to identify changes in the plasma proteome and circulating hematopoietic progenitor cells associated with the LPR following inhaled allergen challenge. METHODS: Serial plasma samples from asthmatics undergoing inhaled allergen challenge were analyzed by mass spectrometry and immunosorbent assays. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were analyzed by flow cytometry. Mass spectrometry data were analyzed using a linear regression to model the relationship between airway obstruction during the LPR and plasma proteome changes. Data from immunosorbent assays were analyzed using linear mixed models. RESULTS: Out of 396 proteins quantified in plasma, 150 showed a statistically significant change 23 h post allergen challenge. Among the most upregulated proteins were three protease inhibitors: alpha-1-antitrypsin, alpha-1-antichymotrypsin and plasma serine protease inhibitor. Altered levels of 13 proteins were associated with the LPR, including increased factor XIII A and decreased von Willebrand factor. No relationship was found between the LPR and changes in the proportions of classical, intermediate, and non-classical monocytes. CONCLUSIONS: Allergic reactions to inhaled allergens in asthmatic subjects were associated with changes in a large proportion of the measured plasma proteome, whereof protease inhibitors showed the largest changes, likely to influence the inflammatory response. Many of the proteins altered in relation to the LPR are associated with coagulation, highlighting potential mechanistic targets for future treatments of type-2 asthma.
PXD028467	35250932	A Comprehensive Analysis of the Lysine Acetylome in the Aquatic Animals Pathogenic Bacterium Vibrio mimicus. 	The lysine acetylome in Vibrio mimicus	Vibrio mimicus, acetylome, lysine acetylation, virulence	Protein lysine acetylation is an evolutionarily conserved post-translational modification (PTM), which is dynamic and reversible, playing a crucial regulatory role in almost every aspect of metabolism, of both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Several global lysine acetylome studies have been carried out in various bacteria, but thus far, there have been no reports of lysine acetylation for the commercially important aquatic animal pathogen Vibrio mimicus. In the present study, we used anti-Ac-K antibody beads to highly sensitive immune-affinity purification and combined high-resolution LC-MS/MS to perform the first global lysine acetylome analysis in V. mimicus, leading to the identification of 1,097 lysine-acetylated sites on 582 proteins, and more than half (58.4%) of the acetylated proteins had only one site. The analysis of acetylated modified peptide motifs revealed six significantly enriched motifs, namely, KacL, KacR, L(-2) KacL, LKacK, L(-7) EKac, and IEKac. In addition, bioinformatic assessments state clearly that acetylated proteins have a hand in many important biological processes in V. mimicus, such as purine metabolism, ribosome, pyruvate metabolism, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, the TCA cycle, and so on. Moreover, 13 acetylated proteins were related to the virulence of V. mimicus. To sum up, this is a comprehensive analysis whole situation protein lysine acetylome in V. mimicus and provides an important foundation for in-depth study of the biological function of lysine acetylation in V. mimicus.
PXD029481	35251473	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis Expands the Roles of Lysine beta-Hydroxybutyrylation Pathway in Response to Environmental beta-Hydroxybutyrate. 	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis Expands the Roles of Lysine beta-Hydroxybutyrylation Pathway in Response to Environmental beta-Hydroxybutyrate	Lysine acetylation, Lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation, Posttranslational modification, Quantitative proteomics, Substrate	Lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation (Kbhb) is a newly identified protein posttranslational modification (PTM) derived from beta-hydroxybutyrate (BHB), a product of ketone body metabolism in liver. BHB could serve as an energy source and play a role in the suppression of oxidative stress. The plasma concentration of BHB could increase up to 20 mM during starvation and in pathological conditions. Despite the progress, how the cells derived from extrahepatic tissues respond to elevated environmental BHB remains largely unknown. Given that BHB can significantly drive Kbhb, we characterized the BHB-induced lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylome and acetylome by quantitative proteomics. A total of 840 unique Kbhb sites on 429 proteins were identified, with 42 sites on 39 proteins increased by more than 50% in response to BHB. The results showed that the upregulated Kbhb induced by BHB was involved in aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis, 2-oxocarboxylic acid metabolism, citrate cycle, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, and pyruvate metabolism pathways. Moreover, some BHB-induced Kbhb substrates were significantly involved in diseases such as cancer. Taken together, we investigate the dynamics of lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylome and acetylome induced by environmental BHB, which reveals the roles of Kbhb in regulating various biological processes and expands the biological functions of BHB.
PXD016524	35251919	miR-7/TGF-beta2 axis sustains acidic tumor microenvironment-induced lung cancer metastasis. 	Drosha/Dicer/miR-7/TGF-beta2 axis Sustained Acidic Microenvironment-induced Lung Metastasis	TGF-beta2, Tumor acidic microenvironment, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, metastasis, microRNA-7	Acidosis, regardless of hypoxia involvement, is recognized as a chronic and harsh tumor microenvironment (TME) that educates malignant cells to thrive and metastasize. Although overwhelming evidence supports an acidic environment as a driver or ubiquitous hallmark of cancer progression, the unrevealed core mechanisms underlying the direct effect of acidification on tumorigenesis have hindered the discovery of novel therapeutic targets and clinical therapy. Here, chemical-induced and transgenic mouse models for colon, liver and lung cancer were established, respectively. miR-7 and TGF-beta2 expressions were examined in clinical tissues (n = 184). RNA-seq, miRNA-seq, proteomics, biosynthesis analyses and functional studies were performed to validate the mechanisms involved in the acidic TME-induced lung cancer metastasis. Our data show that lung cancer is sensitive to the increased acidification of TME, and acidic TME-induced lung cancer metastasis via inhibition of miR-7-5p. TGF-beta2 is a direct target of miR-7-5p. The reduced expression of miR-7-5p subsequently increases the expression of TGF-beta2 which enhances the metastatic potential of the lung cancer. Indeed, overexpression of miR-7-5p reduces the acidic pH-enhanced lung cancer metastasis. Furthermore, the human lung tumor samples also show a reduced miR-7-5p expression but an elevated level of activated TGF-beta2; the expressions of both miR-7-5p and TGF-beta2 are correlated with patients' survival. We are the first to identify the role of the miR-7/TGF-beta2 axis in acidic pH-enhanced lung cancer metastasis. Our study not only delineates how acidification directly affects tumorigenesis, but also suggests miR-7 is a novel reliable biomarker for acidic TME and a novel therapeutic target for non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treatment. Our study opens an avenue to explore the pH-sensitive subcellular components as novel therapeutic targets for cancer treatment.
PXD031159	35252115	Uncover New Reactivity of Genetically Encoded Alkyl Bromide Non-Canonical Amino Acids. 	Uncover New Reactivity of Genetically Encoded Alkyl Bromide Unnatural Amino Acids	and SUMO interactome, chemical cross-linking, genetic code expansion, protein-protein interactions, unnatural Amino Acid	Genetically encoded non-canonical amino acids (ncAAs) with electrophilic moieties are excellent tools to investigate protein-protein interactions (PPIs) both in vitro and in vivo. These ncAAs, including a series of alkyl bromide-based ncAAs, mainly target cysteine residues to form protein-protein cross-links. Although some reactivities towards lysine and tyrosine residues have been reported, a comprehensive understanding of their reactivity towards a broad range of nucleophilic amino acids is lacking. Here we used a recently developed OpenUaa search engine to perform an in-depth analysis of mass spec data generated for Thioredoxin and its direct binding proteins cross-linked with an alkyl bromide-based ncAA, BprY. The analysis showed that, besides cysteine residues, BprY also targeted a broad range of nucleophilic amino acids. We validated this broad reactivity of BprY with Affibody/Z protein complex. We then successfully applied BprY to map a binding interface between SUMO2 and SUMO-interacting motifs (SIMs). BprY was further applied to probe SUMO2 interaction partners. We identified 264 SUMO2 binders, including several validated SUMO2 binders and many new binders. Our data demonstrated that BprY can be effectively used to probe protein-protein interaction interfaces even without cysteine residues, which will greatly expand the power of BprY in studying PPIs.
PXD030078	35252133	An Integrative Multiomics Approach to Characterize Prebiotic Inulin Effects on Faecalibacterium prausnitzii. 	An integrative multi-omics approach to characterize prebiotic inulin effects on Faecalibacterium prausnitzii	ABC transporter, Amylosucrase, Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Inulin, PTS transporter, Prebiotics, beta-fructosidase	Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, a major commensal bacterium in the human gut, is well known for its anti-inflammatory effects, which improve host intestinal health. Although several studies have reported that inulin, a well-known prebiotic, increases the abundance of F. prausnitzii in the intestine, the mechanism underlying this effect remains unclear. In this study, we applied liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based multiomics approaches to identify biological and enzymatic mechanisms of F. prausnitzii involved in the selective digestion of inulin. First, to determine the preference for dietary carbohydrates, we compared the growth of F. prausnitzii in several carbon sources and observed selective growth in inulin. In addition, an LC-MS/MS-based intracellular proteomic and metabolic profiling was performed to determine the quantitative changes in specific proteins and metabolites of F. prausnitzii when grown on inulin. Interestingly, proteomic analysis revealed that the putative proteins involved in inulin-type fructan utilization by F. prausnitzii, particularly beta-fructosidase and amylosucrase were upregulated in the presence of inulin. To investigate the function of these proteins, we overexpressed bfrA and ams, genes encoding beta-fructosidase and amylosucrase, respectively, in Escherichia coli, and observed their ability to degrade fructan. In addition, the enzyme activity assay demonstrated that intracellular fructan hydrolases degrade the inulin-type fructans taken up by fructan ATP-binding cassette transporters. Furthermore, we showed that the fructose uptake activity of F. prausnitzii was enhanced by the fructose phosphotransferase system transporter when inulin was used as a carbon source. Intracellular metabolomic analysis indicated that F. prausnitzii could use fructose, the product of inulin-type fructan degradation, as an energy source for inulin utilization. Taken together, this study provided molecular insights regarding the metabolism of F. prauznitzii for inulin, which stimulates the growth and activity of the beneficial bacterium in the intestine.
PXD030443	35252146	Unexpected Arabinosylation after Humanization of Plant Protein N-Glycosylation. 	Unexpected arabinosylation after humanization of plant protein N-glycosylation	4-galactosylation, N-glycan humanization, N-glycan pentosylation, Physcomitrella (Physcomitrium patens), glyco-engineering, glyco-optimization, plant-made pharmaceuticals, plant-made recombinant biopharmaceuticals, beta1	As biopharmaceuticals, recombinant proteins have become indispensable tools in medicine. An increasing demand, not only in quantity but also in diversity, drives the constant development and improvement of production platforms. The N-glycosylation pattern on biopharmaceuticals plays an important role in activity, serum half-life and immunogenicity. Therefore, production platforms with tailored protein N-glycosylation are of great interest. Plant-based systems have already demonstrated their potential to produce pharmaceutically relevant recombinant proteins, although their N-glycan patterns differ from those in humans. Plants have shown great plasticity towards the manipulation of their glycosylation machinery, and some have already been glyco-engineered in order to avoid the attachment of plant-typical, putatively immunogenic sugar residues. This resulted in complex-type N-glycans with a core structure identical to the human one. Compared to humans, plants lack the ability to elongate these N-glycans with beta1,4-linked galactoses and terminal sialic acids. However, these modifications, which require the activity of several mammalian enzymes, have already been achieved for Nicotiana benthamiana and the moss Physcomitrella. Here, we present the first step towards sialylation of recombinant glycoproteins in Physcomitrella, human beta1,4-linked terminal N-glycan galactosylation, which was achieved by the introduction of a chimeric beta1,4-galactosyltransferase (FTGT). This chimeric enzyme consists of the moss alpha1,4-fucosyltransferase transmembrane domain, fused to the catalytic domain of the human beta1,4-galactosyltransferase. Stable FTGT expression led to the desired beta1,4-galactosylation. However, additional pentoses of unknown identity were also observed. The nature of these pentoses was subsequently determined by Western blot and enzymatic digestion followed by mass spectrometric analysis and resulted in their identification as alpha-linked arabinoses. Since a pentosylation of beta1,4-galactosylated N-glycans was reported earlier, e.g., on recombinant human erythropoietin produced in glyco-engineered Nicotiana tabacum, this phenomenon is of a more general importance for plant-based production platforms. Arabinoses, which are absent in humans, may prevent the full humanization of plant-derived products. Therefore, the identification of these pentoses as arabinoses is important as it creates the basis for their abolishment to ensure the production of safe biopharmaceuticals in plant-based systems.
PXD028185	35252194	Mitochondrial Inorganic Polyphosphate (polyP) Is a Potent Regulator of Mammalian Bioenergetics in SH-SY5Y Cells: A Proteomics and Metabolomics Study. 	Mitochondrial inorganic polyphosphate (polyP) is a contributor towards maintaining cellular bioenergetics in SH-SY5Y cells: a proteomics and metabolomics approach	OXPHOS, data-independent acquisiton, inorganic polyphosphate, metabolomics, mitochondria, mitochondrial bioenergetics, polyP	Inorganic polyphosphate (polyP) is an ancient, ubiquitous, and well-conserved polymer which is present in all the studied organisms. It is formed by individual subunits of orthophosphate which are linked by structurally similar bonds and isoenergetic to those found in ATP. While the metabolism and the physiological roles of polyP have already been described in some organisms, including bacteria and yeast, the exact role of this polymer in mammalian physiology still remains poorly understood. In these organisms, polyP shows a co-localization with mitochondria, and its role as a key regulator of the stress responses, including the maintenance of appropriate bioenergetics, has already been demonstrated by our group and others. Here, using Wild-type (Wt) and MitoPPX (cells enzymatically depleted of mitochondrial polyP) SH-SY5Y cells, we have conducted a comprehensive study of the status of cellular physiology, using proteomics and metabolomics approaches. Our results suggest a clear dysregulation of mitochondrial physiology, especially of bioenergetics, in MitoPPX cells when compared with Wt cells. Moreover, the effects induced by the enzymatic depletion of polyP are similar to those present in the mitochondrial dysfunction that is observed in neurodegenerative disorders and in neuronal aging. Based on our findings, the metabolism of mitochondrial polyP could be a valid and innovative pharmacological target in these conditions.
PXD031595	35252347	Urinary Proteomics Analysis of Active Vitiligo Patients: Biomarkers for Steroid Treatment Efficacy Prediction and Monitoring. 	Urinary proteomics analysis of active vitiligo patients	active vitiligo, biomarkers, glucocorticoids resistance, urinary proteomics	Vitiligo is a common acquired skin disorder caused by immune-mediated destruction of epidermal melanocytes. Systemic glucocorticoids (GCs) have been used to prevent the progression of active vitiligo, with 8.2-56.2% of patients insensitive to this therapy. Currently, there is a lack of biomarkers that can accurately predict and evaluate treatment responses. The goal of this study was to identify candidate urinary protein biomarkers to predict the efficacy of GCs treatment in active vitiligo patients and monitor the disease. Fifty-eight non-segmental vitiligo patients were enrolled, and 116 urine samples were collected before and after GCs treatment. Patients were classified into a treatment-effective group (n = 42) and a treatment-resistant group (n = 16). Each group was divided equally into age- and sex-matched experimental and validation groups, and proteomic analyses were performed. Differentially expressed proteins were identified, and Ingenuity Pathway Analysis was conducted for the functional annotation of these proteins. Receiver operating characteristic curves were used to evaluate the diagnostic value. A total of 245 and 341 differentially expressed proteins between the treatment-resistant and treatment-effective groups were found before and after GCs treatment, respectively. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that the urinary proteome reflected the efficacy of GCs in active vitiligo patients. Eighty and fifty-four candidate biomarkers for treatment response prediction and treatment response evaluation were validated, respectively. By ELISA analysis, retinol binding protein-1 and torsin 1A interacting protein 1 were validated to have the potential to predict the efficacy of GCs with AUC value of 1 and 0.875, respectively. Retinol binding protein-1, torsin 1A interacting protein 1 and protein disulfide-isomerase A4 were validated to have the potential to reflect positive treatment effect to GCs treatment in active vitiligo with AUC value of 0.861, 1 and 0.868, respectively. This report is the first to identify urine biomarkers for GCs treatment efficacy prediction in vitiligo patients. These findings might contribute to the application of GCs in treating active vitiligo patients.
PXD030478	35252484	Heterotopic ossification vs. fracture healing: Extracellular vesicle cargo proteins shed new light on bone formation. 	Heterotopic ossification vs. fracture healing	extracellular vesicle, ossification	Fibrodysplasia ossificans progressiva (FOP) is an extremely rare disease in which bone tissue forms in extraskeletal sites, which is known as heterotopic ossification (HO). Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are small phospholipid-enclosed particles released by various cells which have an emerging, but not completely understood role in various (patho)physiological processes. In order to further study the pathophysiology of FOP we conducted a small observational study comparing the proteomic profiles of EV cargo, derived from pooled plasma of four patient groups: FOP patient (N = 1) during active disease phase (flare-up), FOP patients during remission (N = 2), patients after long bone fracture (N = 20) and healthy controls (N = 10). After isolation of EVs - their protein cargo was determined using liquid chromatography / mass spectrometry, after which a functional gene enrichment analysis was performed. Our results show a sizeable difference of the proteomics profiles in which EVs from the bone fracture group show significant activity of integrin interactions, Wnt, VEGF, IGF-1 and PDGF pathways; conversely, FOP patients' EVs indicate that HO occurs via processes of innate immunity and the Ephrin B signaling pathway. We hypothesize that the Ephrin B signaling (expressed in EVs) contributes to HO by aiding in mesenchymal stem cell recruitment and osteogenic differentiation, as well as by contributing to the inflammatory response, including macrophage chemotaxis and activation. This is, to our knowledge, the first published analysis of EV protein cargo in FOP.
PXD030413	35252692	In-Depth Serum Proteomics by DIA-MS with In Silico Spectral Libraries Reveals Dynamics during the Active Phase of Systemic Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis. 	sJIA serum proteome profiling with DIA-MS	DIA-MS, immunoproteasome, sJIA, serum	In serum proteomics using mass spectrometry, the number of detectable proteins is reduced due to high-abundance proteins, such as albumin. However, recently developed data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) proteomics technology has made it possible to remarkably improve the number of proteins in a serum analysis by removing high-abundance proteins. Using this technology, we analyzed sera from patients with systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis (sJIA), a rare pediatric disease. As a result, we identified 2727 proteins with a wide dynamic range derived from various tissue leakages. We also selected 591 proteins that differed significantly in their active phases. These proteins were involved in many inflammatory processes, and we also identified immunoproteasomes, which were not previously found in serum, suggesting that they may be involved in the pathogenesis of sJIA. A detailed high-depth DIA-MS proteomic analysis of serum may be useful for understanding the pathogenesis of sJIA and may provide clues for the development of new biomarkers.
PXD025917	35252948	Use of ultra high performance liquid chromatography with high resolution mass spectrometry to analyze urinary metabolome alterations following acute kidney injury in post-cardiac surgery patients. 	Urine Metabolic Alternation of Acute Kidney Injury after Cardiac Surgery using UltraHigh-Performance Liquid Chromatography with High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry	Acute Kidney Injury, Cardiac Surgery, Differential Analysis, High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry, Urine Metabolomics	BACKGROUND: Cardiac surgery-associated acute kidney injury (AKI) can increase the mortality and morbidity, and the incidence of chronic kidney disease, in critically ill survivors. The purpose of this research was to investigate possible links between urinary metabolic changes and cardiac surgery-associated AKI. METHODS: Using ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with Q-Exactive Orbitrap mass spectrometry, non-targeted metabolomics was performed on urinary samples collected from groups of patients with cardiac surgery-associated AKI at different time points, including Before_AKI (uninjured kidney), AKI_Day1 (injured kidney) and AKI_Day14 (recovered kidney) groups. The data among the three groups were analyzed by combining multivariate and univariate statistical methods, and urine metabolites related to AKI in patients after cardiac surgery were screened. Altered metabolic pathways associated with cardiac surgery-induced AKI were identified by examining the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes database. RESULTS: The secreted urinary metabolome of the injured kidney can be well separated from the urine metabolomes of uninjured or recovered patients using multivariate and univariate statistical analyses. However, urine samples from the AKI_Day14 and Before_AKI groups cannot be distinguished using either of the two statistical analyses. Nearly 4000 urinary metabolites were identified through bioinformatics methods at Annotation Levels 1-4. Several of these differential metabolites may also perform essential biological functions. Differential analysis of the urinary metabolome among groups was also performed to provide potential prognostic indicators and changes in signalling pathways. Compared with the uninjured kidney group, the patients with cardiac surgery-associated AKI displayed dramatic changes in renal metabolism, including sulphur metabolism and amino acid metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Urinary metabolite disorder was observed in patients with cardiac surgery-associated AKI due to ischaemia and medical treatment, and the recovered patients' kidneys were able to return to normal. This work provides data on urine metabolite markers and essential resources for further research on AKI.
PXD029349	35253263	Role of cellular retinol-binding protein, type 1 and retinoid homeostasis in the adult mouse heart: A multi-omic approach. 	Role of cellular retinol-binding protein, type 1 and retinoid homeostasis in the adult mouse heart: a multi-omic approach	Cellular retinol binding protein type 1, Heart, Mice, Retinoic acid, Retinoid metabolism	The main active metabolite of Vitamin A, all-trans retinoic acid (RA), is required for proper cellular function and tissue organization. Heart development has a well-defined requirement for RA, but there is limited research on the role of RA in the adult heart. Homeostasis of RA includes regulation of membrane receptors, chaperones, enzymes, and nuclear receptors. Cellular retinol-binding protein, type 1 (CRBP1), encoded by retinol-binding protein, type 1 (Rbp1), regulates RA homeostasis by delivering vitamin A to enzymes for RA synthesis and protecting it from non-specific oxidation. In this work, a multi-omics approach was used to characterize the effect of CRBP1 loss using the Rbp1(-/-) mouse. Retinoid homeostasis was disrupted in Rbp1(-/-) mouse heart tissue, as seen by a 33% and 24% decrease in RA levels in the left and right ventricles, respectively, compared to wild-type mice (WT). To further inform on the effect of disrupted RA homeostasis, we conducted high-throughput targeted metabolomics. A total of 222 metabolite and metabolite combinations were analyzed, with 33 having differential abundance between Rbp1(-/-) and WT hearts. Additionally, we performed global proteome profiling to further characterize the impact of CRBP1 loss in adult mouse hearts. More than 2606 unique proteins were identified, with 340 proteins having differential expression between Rbp1(-/-) and WT hearts. Pathway analysis performed on metabolomic and proteomic data revealed pathways related to cellular metabolism and cardiac metabolism were the most disrupted in Rbp1(-/-) mice. Together, these studies characterize the effect of CRBP1 loss and reduced RA in the adult heart.
PXD021514	35253614	OSBPL2 mutations impair autophagy and lead to hearing loss, potentially remedied by rapamycin. 	Identification of WT and mutant OSBPL2 interactors	interactors, mutant protein	Intracellular accumulation of mutant proteins causes proteinopathies, which lack targeted therapies. Autosomal dominant hearing loss (DFNA67) is caused by frameshift mutations in OSBPL2. Here, we show that DFNA67 is a toxic proteinopathy. Mutant OSBPL2 accumulated intracellularly and bound to macroautophagy/autophagy proteins. Consequently, its accumulation led to defective endolysosomal homeostasis and impaired autophagy. Transgenic mice expressing mutant OSBPL2 exhibited hearing loss, but osbpl2 knockout mice or transgenic mice expressing wild-type OSBPL2 did not. Rapamycin decreased the accumulation of mutant OSBPL2 and partially rescued hearing loss in mice. Rapamycin also partially improved hearing loss and tinnitus in individuals with DFNA67. Our findings indicate that dysfunctional autophagy is caused by mutant proteins in DFNA67; hence, we recommend rapamycin for DFNA67 treatment.Abbreviations: ABR: auditory brainstem response; ACTB: actin beta; CTSD: cathepsin D; dB: decibel; DFNA67: deafness non-syndromic autosomal dominant 67; DPOAE: distortion product otoacoustic emission; fs: frameshift; GFP: green fluorescent protein; HsQ53R-TG: human p.Q53Rfs*100-transgenic: HEK 293: human embryonic kidney 293; HFD: high-fat diet; KO: knockout; LAMP1: lysosomal associated membrane protein 1; MAP1LC3/LC3: microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; NSHL: non-syndromic hearing loss; OHC: outer hair cells; OSBPL2: oxysterol binding protein-like 2; SEM: scanning electron microscopy; SGN: spiral ganglion neuron; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; TEM: transmission electron microscopy; TG: transgenic; WES: whole-exome sequencing; YUHL: Yonsei University Hearing Loss; WT: wild-type.
PXD029858	35253629	Therapeutic targeting of the USP2-E2F4 axis inhibits autophagic machinery essential for zinc homeostasis in cancer progression. 	Roles of USP2/E2F4 axis in autophagic machinery essential for cancer progression	E2F4, USP2	Macroautophagy/autophagy is a conserved cellular process associated with tumorigenesis and aggressiveness, while mechanisms regulating expression of autophagic machinery genes in cancers still remain elusive. Herein, we identified E2F4 (E2F transcription factor 4) as a novel transcriptional activator of cytoprotective autophagy crucial for zinc homeostasis in cancer cells. Gain- and loss-of-function studies showed that E2F4 promoted autophagy in a cell cycle-dependent manner, resulting in facilitated degradation of MT (metallothionein) proteins, elevated distribution of Zn(2+) within autophagosomes, decreased labile intracellular zinc ions, and increased growth, invasion, and metastasis of gastric cancer cells. Mechanistically, E2F4 directly regulated the transcription of ATG2A (autophagy related 2A) and ULK2 (unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 2), leading to autophagic degradation of MT1E, MT1M, and MT1X, while USP2 (ubiquitin specific peptidase 2) stabilized E2F4 protein to induce its transactivation via physical interaction and deubiquitination in cancer cells. Rescue experiments revealed that USP2 harbored oncogenic properties via E2F4-facilitated autophagy and zinc homeostasis. Emetine, a small chemical inhibitor of autophagy, was able to block interaction between UPS2 and E2F4, increase labile intracellular zinc ions, and suppress tumorigenesis and aggressiveness. In clinical gastric cancer specimens, both USP2 and E2F4 were upregulated and associated with poor outcome of patients. These findings indicate that therapeutic targeting of the USP2-E2F4 axis inhibits autophagic machinery essential for zinc homeostasis in cancer progression.Abbreviations: 3-MA: 3-methyladenine; ANOVA: analysis of variance; ATG2A: autophagy related 2A; ATG5: autophagy related 5; ATP: adenosine triphosphate; BECN1: beclin 1; BiFC: bimolecular fluorescence complementation; CCND1: cyclin D1; CDK: cyclin dependent kinase; ChIP: chromatin immunoprecipitation; CHX: cycloheximide; Co-IP: co-immunoprecipitation; DAPI: 4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole; E2F4: E2F transcription factor 4; eATP: extracellular adenosine triphosphate; EBSS: Earle's balanced salt solution; FP: first progression; FRET: fluorescence resonance energy transfer; FUCCI: fluorescent ubiquitination-based cell cycle indicator; GFP: green fluorescent protein; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HA: hemagglutinin; MAP1LC3B/LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MDM2: MDM2 proto-oncogene; MKI67/Ki-67: marker of proliferation Ki-67; MT: metallothionein; MT1E: metallothionein 1E; MT1M: metallothionein 1M; MT1X: metallothionein 1X; MTT: 3-(4,5-dimethyltriazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide; OS: overall survival; PECAM1/CD31: platelet and endothelial cell adhesion molecule 1; PIK3C3: phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase catalytic subunit type 3; qPCR: quantitative PCR; RFP: red fluorescent protein; SQSTM1/p62: sequestosome 1; UBXN1: UBX domain protein 1; Ub: ubiquitin; ULK2: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 2; USP14: ubiquitin specific peptidase 14; USP2: ubiquitin specific peptidase 2; USP5: ubiquitin specific peptidase 5; USP7: ubiquitin specific peptidase 7; ZnCl2: zinc chloride.
PXD030309	35254915	Proteome-wide cellular thermal shift assay reveals unexpected cross-talk between brassinosteroid and auxin signaling. 	Proteome-wide cellular thermal shift assay reveals novel crosstalk between brassinosteroid and auxin signaling	Cellular thermal shift assay, auxin, brassinosteroids, chemical genetics	SignificanceChemical genetics, which investigates biological processes using small molecules, is gaining interest in plant research. However, a major challenge is to uncover the mode of action of the small molecules. Here, we applied the cellular thermal shift assay coupled with mass spectrometry (CETSA MS) to intact Arabidopsis cells and showed that bikinin, the plant-specific glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) inhibitor, changed the thermal stability of some of its direct targets and putative GSK3-interacting proteins. In combination with phosphoproteomics, we also revealed that GSK3s phosphorylated the auxin carrier PIN-FORMED1 and regulated its polarity that is required for the vascular patterning in the leaf.
PXD024608	35255079	Transcriptome and proteome profiling reveals complex adaptations of Candida parapsilosis cells assimilating hydroxyaromatic carbon sources. 	Transcriptional landscape of Candida parapsilosis cells assimilating hydroxyaromatic substrates	biochemical pathway evolution, catabolism, hydroxybenzene, hydroxybenzoate, metabolic gene cluster, peroxisome, transcription activator	Many fungal species utilize hydroxyderivatives of benzene and benzoic acid as carbon sources. The yeast Candida parapsilosis metabolizes these compounds via the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways, whose components are encoded by two metabolic gene clusters. In this study, we determine the chromosome level assembly of the C. parapsilosis strain CLIB214 and use it for transcriptomic and proteomic investigation of cells cultivated on hydroxyaromatic substrates. We demonstrate that the genes coding for enzymes and plasma membrane transporters involved in the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathways are highly upregulated and their expression is controlled in a substrate-specific manner. However, regulatory proteins involved in this process are not known. Using the knockout mutants, we show that putative transcriptional factors encoded by the genes OTF1 and GTF1 located within these gene clusters function as transcriptional activators of the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathway, respectively. We also show that the activation of both pathways is accompanied by upregulation of genes for the enzymes involved in beta-oxidation of fatty acids, glyoxylate cycle, amino acid metabolism, and peroxisome biogenesis. Transcriptome and proteome profiles of the cells grown on 4-hydroxybenzoate and 3-hydroxybenzoate, which are metabolized via the 3-oxoadipate and gentisate pathway, respectively, reflect their different connection to central metabolism. Yet we find that the expression profiles differ also in the cells assimilating 4-hydroxybenzoate and hydroquinone, which are both metabolized in the same pathway. This finding is consistent with the phenotype of the Otf1p-lacking mutant, which exhibits impaired growth on hydroxybenzoates, but still utilizes hydroxybenzenes, thus indicating that additional, yet unidentified transcription factor could be involved in the 3-oxoadipate pathway regulation. Moreover, we propose that bicarbonate ions resulting from decarboxylation of hydroxybenzoates also contribute to differences in the cell responses to hydroxybenzoates and hydroxybenzenes. Finally, our phylogenetic analysis highlights evolutionary paths leading to metabolic adaptations of yeast cells assimilating hydroxyaromatic substrates.
PXD028985	35255101	HLA-A*11:01-restricted CD8+ T cell immunity against influenza A and influenza B viruses in Indigenous and non-Indigenous people. 	Influenza-derived peptide presentation by HLA-A*11:01	HLA, Immunopeptidome, Influenza	HLA-A*11:01 is one of the most prevalent human leukocyte antigens (HLAs), especially in East Asian and Oceanian populations. It is also highly expressed in Indigenous people who are at high risk of severe influenza disease. As CD8+ T cells can provide broadly cross-reactive immunity to distinct influenza strains and subtypes, including influenza A, B and C viruses, understanding CD8+ T cell immunity to influenza viruses across prominent HLA types is needed to rationally design a universal influenza vaccine and generate protective immunity especially for high-risk populations. As only a handful of HLA-A*11:01-restricted CD8+ T cell epitopes have been described for influenza A viruses (IAVs) and epitopes for influenza B viruses (IBVs) were still unknown, we embarked on an epitope discovery study to define a CD8+ T cell landscape for HLA-A*11:01-expressing Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australian people. Using mass-spectrometry, we identified IAV- and IBV-derived peptides presented by HLA-A*11:01 during infection. 79 IAV and 57 IBV peptides were subsequently screened for immunogenicity in vitro with peripheral blood mononuclear cells from HLA-A*11:01-expressing Indigenous and non-Indigenous Australian donors. CD8+ T cell immunogenicity screening revealed two immunogenic IAV epitopes (A11/PB2320-331 and A11/PB2323-331) and the first HLA-A*11:01-restricted IBV epitopes (A11/M41-49, A11/NS1186-195 and A11/NP511-520). The immunogenic IAV- and IBV-derived peptides were >90% conserved among their respective influenza viruses. Identification of novel immunogenic HLA-A*11:01-restricted CD8+ T cell epitopes has implications for understanding how CD8+ T cell immunity is generated towards IAVs and IBVs. These findings can inform the development of rationally designed, broadly cross-reactive influenza vaccines to ensure protection from severe influenza disease in HLA-A*11:01-expressing individuals.
PXD030146	35255833	The fiber diameter traits of Tibetan cashmere goats are governed by the inherent differences in stress, hypoxic, and metabolic adaptations: an integrative study of proteome and transcriptome. 	Tibetan cashmere goat skin protein datasets	Tibetan cashmere goat, skin	BACKGROUND: Tibetan cashmere goats are served as a valuable model for high altitude adaptation and hypoxia complications related studies, while the cashmere produced by these goats is an important source of income for the herders. The aim of this study was to investigate the differences in protein abundance underlying the fine (average 12.20 +/- 0.03 mum of mean fiber diameter) and coarse cashmere (average 14.67 +/- 0.05 mum of mean fiber diameter) producing by Tibetan cashmere goats. We systematically investigated the genetic determinants of fiber diameter by integrated analysis with proteomic and transcriptomic datasets from skin tissues of Tibetan cashmere goats. RESULTS: We identified 1980 proteins using a label-free proteomics approach. They were annotated to three different databases, while 1730 proteins were mapped to the original protein coding genes (PCGs) of the transcriptomic study. Comparative analyses of cashmere with extremely fine vs. coarse phenotypes yielded 29 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), for instance, APOH, GANAB, AEBP1, CP, CPB2, GPR142, VTN, IMPA1, CTSZ, GLB1, and HMCN1. Functional enrichment analysis of these DEPs revealed their involvement in oxidation-reduction process, cell redox homeostasis, metabolic, PI3K-Akt, MAPK, and Wnt signaling pathways. Transcription factors enrichment analysis revealed the proteins mainly belong to NF-YB family, HMG family, CSD family. We further validated the protein abundance of four DEPs (GC, VTN, AEBP1, and GPR142) through western blot, and considered they were the most potential candidate genes for cashmere traits in Tibetan cashmere goats. CONCLUSIONS: These analyses indicated that the major biological variations underlying the difference of cashmere fiber diameter in Tibetan cashmere goats were attributed to the inherent adaptations related to metabolic, hypoxic, and stress response differences. This study provided novel insights into the breeding strategies for cashmere traits and enhance the understanding of the biological and genetic mechanisms of cashmere traits in Tibetan cashmere goats.
PXD011443	35256050	Placental uptake and metabolism of 25(OH)vitamin D determine its activity within the fetoplacental unit. 	Effects of vitamin D on the placental proteomic profile	LC-MS, iTRAQ	Pregnancy 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] concentrations are associated with maternal and fetal health outcomes. Using physiological human placental perfusion and villous explants, we investigate the role of the placenta in regulating the relationships between maternal 25(OH)D and fetal physiology. We demonstrate active placental uptake of 25(OH)D3 by endocytosis, placental metabolism of 25(OH)D3 into 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 and active 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH)2D3], with subsequent release of these metabolites into both the maternal and fetal circulations. Active placental transport of 25(OH)D3 and synthesis of 1,25(OH)2D3 demonstrate that fetal supply is dependent on placental function rather than simply the availability of maternal 25(OH)D3. We demonstrate that 25(OH)D3 exposure induces rapid effects on the placental transcriptome and proteome. These map to multiple pathways central to placental function and thereby fetal development, independent of vitamin D transfer. Our data suggest that the underlying epigenetic landscape helps dictate the transcriptional response to vitamin D treatment. This is the first quantitative study demonstrating vitamin D transfer and metabolism by the human placenta, with widespread effects on the placenta itself. These data demonstrate a complex interplay between vitamin D and the placenta and will inform future interventions using vitamin D to support fetal development and maternal adaptations to pregnancy.
PXD027145	35257887	Phosphoproteome Analysis Identifies a Synaptotagmin-1-Associated Complex Involved in Ischemic Neuron Injury. 	Proteome and phosphoproteome of hippocampus after focal cerebral ischemia 2 h in mice	cerebral ischemia, hippocampus, phosphoproteome	Cerebral stroke is one of the leading causes of death in adults worldwide. However, the molecular mechanisms of stroke-induced neuron injury are not fully understood. Here, we obtained phosphoproteomic and proteomic profiles of the acute ischemic hippocampus by LC-MS/MS analysis. Quantitative phosphoproteomic analyses revealed that the dysregulated phosphoproteins were involved in synaptic components and neurotransmission. We further demonstrated that phosphorylation of Synaptotagmin-1 (Syt1) at the Thr112 site in cultured hippocampal neurons aggravated oxygen-glucose deprivation-induced neuronal injury. Immature neurons with low expression of Syt1 exhibit slight neuronal injury in a cerebral ischemia model. Administration of the Tat-Syt1(T112A) peptide protects neurons against cerebral ischemia-induced injury in vitro and in vivo. Surprisingly, potassium voltage-gated channel subfamily KQT member 2 (Kcnq2) interacted with Syt1 and Annexin A6 (Anxa6) and alleviated Syt1-mediated neuronal injury upon oxygen-glucose deprivation treatment. These results reveal a mechanism underlying neuronal injury and may provide new targets for neuroprotection after acute cerebral ischemia onset.
PXD021376	35258392	Mitochondrial respiration supports autophagy to provide stress resistance during quiescence. 	Mitochondrial respiration is necessary to combat oxidative stress in quiescent cells	ATG4, Mitochondria, autophagy, cell death, electron transport chain, endothelial cells, oxidative phosphorylation, reactive oxygen species	Mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) generates ATP, but OXPHOS also supports biosynthesis during proliferation. In contrast, the role of OXPHOS during quiescence, beyond ATP production, is not well understood. Using mouse models of inducible OXPHOS deficiency in all cell types or specifically in the vascular endothelium that negligibly relies on OXPHOS-derived ATP, we show that selectively during quiescence OXPHOS provides oxidative stress resistance by supporting macroautophagy/autophagy. Mechanistically, OXPHOS constitutively generates low levels of endogenous ROS that induce autophagy via attenuation of ATG4B activity, which provides protection from ROS insult. Physiologically, the OXPHOS-autophagy system (i) protects healthy tissue from toxicity of ROS-based anticancer therapy, and (ii) provides ROS resistance in the endothelium, ameliorating systemic LPS-induced inflammation as well as inflammatory bowel disease. Hence, cells acquired mitochondria during evolution to profit from oxidative metabolism, but also built in an autophagy-based ROS-induced protective mechanism to guard against oxidative stress associated with OXPHOS function during quiescence.Abbreviations: AMPK: AMP-activated protein kinase; AOX: alternative oxidase; Baf A: bafilomycin A1; CI, respiratory complexes I; DCF-DA: 2',7'-dichlordihydrofluorescein diacetate; DHE: dihydroethidium; DSS: dextran sodium sulfate; DeltaPsimi: mitochondrial inner membrane potential; EdU: 5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine; ETC: electron transport chain; FA: formaldehyde; HUVEC; human umbilical cord endothelial cells; IBD: inflammatory bowel disease; LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; LPS: lipopolysaccharide; MEFs: mouse embryonic fibroblasts; MTORC1: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase complex 1; mtDNA: mitochondrial DNA; NAC: N-acetyl cysteine; OXPHOS: oxidative phosphorylation; PCs: proliferating cells; PE: phosphatidylethanolamine; PEITC: phenethyl isothiocyanate; QCs: quiescent cells; ROS: reactive oxygen species; PLA2: phospholipase A2, WB: western blot.
PXD030589	35258597	ABI5 binding protein2 inhibits ABA responses during germination without ABA-INSENSITIVE5 degradation. 	Total proteome Dry seed Col-0, dwa1 dwa2, YFP:AFP2 (+/-) and YFP:AFP2  in dwa1 dwa2 Background 	ABA sensitivity during germiantion, Arabidospsis, Seed viability	Overexpression of ABA-INSENSITIVE5 binding proteins (AFPs) results in extreme ABA resistance of seeds and failure to acquire desiccation tolerance, at least in part through effects on chromatin modification. We tested the hypothesis that AFPs promote germination in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) by also functioning as adapters for E3 ligases that ubiquitinate ABI5, leading to its degradation. Interactions between AFPs and two well-characterized classes of E3 ligases targeting ABI5, DWD HYPERSENSITIVE TO ABA (DWA)s and KEEP ON GOING, were analyzed by yeast two-hybrid, bimolecular fluorescence complementation, and genetic assays. Although weak direct interactions were detected between AFPs and E3 ligases, loss of function for these E3 ligases did not impair ABA-resistance conferred by overexpression of the YFP-AFP2 fusion. Comparison of ABI5 and AFP2 levels in these lines showed that AFP2 accumulation increased during germination, but that ABI5 degradation followed germination, demonstrating that AFP2 overexpression reduces ABA sensitivity, thereby permitting germination prior to ABI5 degradation. Surprisingly, AFP2 overexpression in the dwa1 dwa2 mutant background produced the unusual combination of extreme ABA resistance and desiccation tolerance, creating an opportunity to separate the underlying biochemical characteristics of ABA sensitivity and desiccation tolerance. Our quantitative proteomics analysis identified at least three-fold more differentially accumulated seed proteins than previous studies. Comparison of dry seed proteomes of wild-type or dwa1 dwa2 mutants with or without AFP2 overexpression allowed us to separate and refine the changes in protein accumulation patterns associated with desiccation tolerance independently of ABA sensitivity, or vice versa, to a subset of cold-induced and defense stress-responsive proteins and signaling regulators.
PXD029521	35258624	G-quadruplex inducer/stabilizer pyridostatin targets SUB1 to promote cytotoxicity of a transplatinum complex. 	Differential proteomics of HeLa cells treated with PDS for 24 hours and untreated HeLa cells	HeLa	Pyridostatin (PDS) is a well-known G-quadruplex (G4) inducer and stabilizer, yet its target genes have remained unclear. Herein, applying MS proteomics strategy, we revealed PDS significantly downregulated 22 proteins but upregulated 16 proteins in HeLa cancer cells, of which the genes both contain a number of G4 potential sequences, implying that PDS regulation on gene expression is far more complicated than inducing/stabilizing G4 structures. The PDS-downregulated proteins consequently upregulated 6 proteins to activate cyclin and cell cycle regulation, suggesting that PDS itself is not a potential anticancer agent, at least toward HeLa cancer cells. Importantly, SUB1, which encodes human positive cofactor and DNA lesion sensor PC4, was downregulated by 4.76-fold. Further studies demonstrated that the downregulation of PC4 dramatically promoted the cytotoxicity of trans-[PtCl2(NH3)(thiazole)] (trans-PtTz) toward HeLa cells to a similar level of cisplatin, contributable to retarding the repair of 1,3-trans-PtTz crosslinked DNA lesion mediated by PC4. These findings not only provide new insights into better understanding on the biological functions of PDS but also implicate a strategy for the rational design of novel multi-targeting platinum anticancer drugs via conjugation of PDS as a ligand to the coordination scaffold of transplatin for battling drug resistance to cisplatin.
PXD028338	35263542	Messages from the Small Intestine Carried by Extracellular Vesicles in Prediabetes: A Proteomic Portrait. 	Comparative analysis of gut EVs from mice on high and low fat diet	Diet, LC-MS, Lipids, Type 2 diabetes, gut, mice	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) mediate communication in physiological and pathological conditions. In the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes, inter-organ communication plays an important role in its progress and metabolic surgery leads to its remission. Moreover, gut dysbiosis is emerging as a diabetogenic factor. However, it remains unclear how the gut senses metabolic alterations and whether this is transmitted to other tissues via EVs. Using a diet-induced prediabetic mouse model, we observed that protein packaging in gut-derived EVs (GDE), specifically the small intestine, is altered in prediabetes. Proteins related to lipid metabolism and to oxidative stress management were more abundant in prediabetic GDE compared to healthy controls. On the other hand, proteins related to glycolytic activity, as well as those responsible for the degradation of polyubiquitinated composites, were depleted in prediabetic GDE. Together, our findings show that protein packaging in GDE is markedly modified during prediabetes pathogenesis, thus suggesting that prediabetic alterations in the small intestine are translated into modified GDE proteomes, which are dispersed into the circulation where they can interact with and influence the metabolic status of other tissues. This study highlights the importance of the small intestine as a tissue that propagates prediabetic metabolic dysfunction throughout the body and the importance of GDE as the messengers. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD028338.
PXD027331	35263585	Identification of the global miR-130a targetome reveals a role for TBL1XR1 in hematopoietic stem cell self-renewal and t(8;21) AML. 	Global Identification of the miR-130a targetome in  human HSPC Reveals a Novel Role for TBL1XR1 in Hematopoietic Stem Cell Self-Renewal and t(8;21) AML	LC-MS, acute myeloid leukemia, hematopoiesis, miRNA	Gene expression profiling and proteome analysis of normal and malignant hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) point to shared core stemness properties. However, discordance between mRNA and protein signatures highlights an important role for post-transcriptional regulation by microRNAs (miRNAs) in governing this critical nexus. Here, we identify miR-130a as a regulator of HSC self-renewal and differentiation. Enforced expression of miR-130a impairs B lymphoid differentiation and expands long-term HSCs. Integration of protein mass spectrometry and chimeric AGO2 crosslinking and immunoprecipitation (CLIP) identifies TBL1XR1 as a primary miR-130a target, whose loss of function phenocopies miR-130a overexpression. Moreover, we report that miR-130a is highly expressed in t(8;21) acute myeloid leukemia (AML), where it is critical for maintaining the oncogenic molecular program mediated by the AML1-ETO complex. Our study establishes that identification of the comprehensive miRNA targetome within primary cells enables discovery of genes and molecular networks underpinning stemness properties of normal and leukemic cells.
PXD030735	35263628	Linkage reprogramming by tailor-made E3s reveals polyubiquitin chain requirements in DNA-damage bypass. 	Linkage Reprogramming by Tailor-made E3s Reveals Polyubiquitin Chain Requirements in DNA Damage Bypass	DNA damage bypass, E3 ligase, PCNA, Ubiquitin	A polyubiquitin chain can adopt a variety of shapes, depending on how the ubiquitin monomers are joined. However, the relevance of linkage for the signaling functions of polyubiquitin chains is often poorly understood because of our inability to control or manipulate this parameter in vivo. Here, we present a strategy for reprogramming polyubiquitin chain linkage by means of tailor-made, linkage- and substrate-selective ubiquitin ligases. Using the polyubiquitylation of the budding yeast replication factor PCNA in response to DNA damage as a model case, we show that altering the features of a polyubiquitin chain in vivo can change the fate of the modified substrate. We also provide evidence for redundancy between distinct but structurally similar linkages, and we demonstrate by proof-of-principle experiments that the method can be generalized to targets beyond PCNA. Our study illustrates a promising approach toward the in vivo analysis of polyubiquitin signaling.
PXD030170	35264561	Sirtuin-1 sensitive lysine-136 acetylation drives phase separation and pathological aggregation of TDP-43. 	Mapping of TDP-43 ubiquitination and acetylation sites	TDP-43, acetylation, ubiquitination	Trans-activation response DNA-binding protein of 43  kDa (TDP-43) regulates RNA processing and forms neuropathological aggregates in patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Investigating TDP-43 post-translational modifications, we discovered that K84 acetylation reduced nuclear import whereas K136 acetylation impaired RNA binding and splicing capabilities of TDP-43. Such failure of RNA interaction triggered TDP-43 phase separation mediated by the C-terminal low complexity domain, leading to the formation of insoluble aggregates with pathologically phosphorylated and ubiquitinated TDP-43. Introduction of acetyl-lysine at the identified sites via amber suppression confirmed the results from site-directed mutagenesis. K84-acetylated TDP-43 showed cytoplasmic mislocalization, and the aggregation propensity of K136-acetylated TDP-43 was confirmed. We generated antibodies selective for TDP-43 acetylated at these lysines, and found that sirtuin-1 can potently deacetylate K136-acetylated TDP-43 and reduce its aggregation propensity. Thus, distinct lysine acetylations modulate nuclear import, RNA binding and phase separation of TDP-43, suggesting regulatory mechanisms for TDP-43 pathogenesis.
PXD022046	35264567	Restoring nuclear entry of Sirtuin 2 in oligodendrocyte progenitor cells promotes remyelination during ageing. 	Delaying aging and enhancing repair of the aged CNS myelin by beta-NMN requires SIRT2	NAD+, SIRT2, differentiation, epigenetics, metabolism, myelin aging, myelin rejuvenation, oligodendrocyte precursor cell, remyelination, beta-nicotinamide mononucleotide	The age-dependent decline in remyelination potential of the central nervous system during ageing is associated with a declined differentiation capacity of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells (OPCs). The molecular players that can enhance OPC differentiation or rejuvenate OPCs are unclear. Here we show that, in mouse OPCs, nuclear entry of SIRT2 is impaired and NAD(+) levels are reduced during ageing. When we supplement beta-nicotinamide mononucleotide (beta-NMN), an NAD(+) precursor, nuclear entry of SIRT2 in OPCs, OPC differentiation, and remyelination were rescued in aged animals. We show that the effects on myelination are mediated via the NAD(+)-SIRT2-H3K18Ac-ID4 axis, and SIRT2 is required for rejuvenating OPCs. Our results show that SIRT2 and NAD(+) levels rescue the aged OPC differentiation potential to levels comparable to young age, providing potential targets to enhance remyelination during ageing.
PXD028921	35264796	Tryptophan depletion results in tryptophan-to-phenylalanine substitutants. 	Tryptophan depletion provokes the production and presentation of in-frame tryptophan to phenylalanine substitutions	amino acid substitution, cancer, tryptophan depletion	Activated T cells secrete interferon-gamma, which triggers intracellular tryptophan shortage by upregulating the indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) enzyme(1-4). Here we show that despite tryptophan depletion, in-frame protein synthesis continues across tryptophan codons. We identified tryptophan-to-phenylalanine codon reassignment (W>F) as the major event facilitating this process, and pinpointed tryptophanyl-tRNA synthetase (WARS1) as its source. We call these W>F peptides 'substitutants' to distinguish them from genetically encoded mutants. Using large-scale proteomics analyses, we demonstrate W>F substitutants to be highly abundant in multiple cancer types. W>F substitutants were enriched in tumours relative to matching adjacent normal tissues, and were associated with increased IDO1 expression, oncogenic signalling and the tumour-immune microenvironment. Functionally, W>F substitutants can impair protein activity, but also expand the landscape of antigens presented at the cell surface to activate T cell responses. Thus, substitutants are generated by an alternative decoding mechanism with potential effects on gene function and tumour immunoreactivity.
PXD026890	35265678	Plasma Proteome Profiling of Patients With In-stent Restenosis by Tandem Mass Tag-Based Quantitative Proteomics Approach. 	Plasma proteome profiling of patients with in-stent restenosis by tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics approach	LC-MS/MS., Plasma, TMT, in-stent restenosis, protein profiles, quantitative proteomic	Background: Despite the widespread application of new drug-eluting stents, a considerable portion of patients experience in-stent restenosis (ISR). To date, the pathophysiologic mechanisms of ISR remain poorly understood. Methods: In this study, we collected plasma samples from ISR patients (n = 29) and non-ISR patients (n = 36) after drug-eluting stent implantation, as well as from healthy controls (HCs) (n = 32). Our goal was to investigate differences in plasma protein profiles using tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling coupled with liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. The proteomic data were validated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Bioinformatic analyses were conducted to analyze potential pathways and protein-protein interaction (PPI) involved in ISR. Results: A total of 1,696 proteins were identified, of which 278 differed in protein abundance between non-ISR and HCs, 497 between ISR and HCs, and 387 between ISR and non-ISR, respectively. Bioinformatic analyses, including Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and PPI, further demonstrated that differentially abundant proteins between ISR and non-ISR are involved in several crucial biological processes and signaling pathways, such as focal adhesion, platelet activation, Rap1 signaling, regulation of actin cytoskeleton, and cholesterol metabolism. Among the identified differentially abundant proteins in ISR, 170 were increased in abundance relative to both non-ISR patients and HCs. Some of these proteins were identified to have critical functions for atherosclerosis development and might be involved in ISR pathology. Among these proteins, 3 proteins with increased abundance including fetuin-B, apolipoprotein C-III (APOC3), and cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) were confirmed by ELISA. Conclusions: This is the first study provided a comprehensive proteomic profile to understand ISR pathology, which may help identify early diagnostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
PXD026751	35266817	Outer Membrane Vesicles of Acinetobacter baumannii DS002 Are Selectively Enriched with TonB-Dependent Transporters and Play a Key Role in Iron Acquisition. 	Proteomics of Outermembrane Vesicles (OMV) from Acinetobacter baumannii DS002	Membrane vesicles, Proteins	Outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) of Acinetobacter baumannii DS002 carry proteins which perform selective biological functions. The proteins involved in cell wall/membrane biogenesis and inorganic ion transport and metabolism occupied a significant portion of the 302 proteins associated with OMVs. Interestingly, the TonB-dependent transporters (TonRs), linked to the active transport of nutrients across the energy-deprived outer membrane, are predominant among proteins involved in inorganic ion transport and metabolism. The OMVs of DS002 contain TonRs capable of transporting iron complexed to catecholate, hydroximate, and mixed types of siderophores. Consistent with this observation, the OMVs were firmly bound to ferric-enterobactin ((55)Fe-Ent) and successfully transported iron into A. baumannii DS002 cells grown under iron-limiting conditions. In addition to the TonRs, OMVs also carry proteins known to promote pathogenesis, immune evasion, and biofilm formation. Our findings provide conclusive evidence for the role of OMVs in the transport of nutrients such as iron and show the presence of proteins with proven roles in pathogenicity and immune response. IMPORTANCE TonB-dependent transporters (TonRs) play a crucial role in transporting nutrients such as iron, nickel, copper, and complex carbohydrates across the energy-deprived outer membrane. Due to their unique structural features, TonRs capture nutrients in an energy-independent manner and transport them across the outer membrane by harvesting energy derived from the inner membrane-localized Ton-complex. In this study, we report the presence of TonRs capable of transporting various nutrients in OMVs and demonstrate their role in capturing and transporting ferric iron complexed with enterobactin into A. baumannii DS002 cells. The OMV-associated TonRs appear to play a critical role in the survival of A. baumannii, listed as a priority pathogen, under nutrient-deprived conditions.
PXD018118	35266843	KAT7-mediated CANX (calnexin) crotonylation regulates leucine-stimulated MTORC1 activity. 	Proteome and Crotonylome of normal and leucine deprivation treated AML12 cells	crotonylome, leucine deprivation	Amino acids play crucial roles in the MTOR (mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase) complex 1 (MTORC1) pathway. However, the underlying mechanisms are not fully understood. Here, we establish a cell-free system to mimic the activation of MTORC1, by which we identify CANX (calnexin) as an essential regulator for leucine-stimulated MTORC1 pathway. CANX translocates to lysosomes after leucine deprivation, and its loss of function renders either the MTORC1 activity or the lysosomal translocation of MTOR insensitive to leucine deprivation. We further find that CANX binds to LAMP2 (lysosomal associated membrane protein 2), and LAMP2 is required for leucine deprivation-induced CANX interaction with the Ragulator to inhibit Ragulator activity toward RRAG GTPases. Moreover, leucine deprivation promotes the lysine (K) 525 crotonylation of CANX, which is another essential condition for the lysosomal translocation of CANX. Finally, we find that KAT7 (lysine acetyltransferase 7) mediates the K525 crotonylation of CANX. Loss of KAT7 renders the MTORC1 insensitivity to leucine deprivation. Our findings provide new insights for the regulatory mechanism of the leucine-stimulated MTORC1 pathway.Abbreviations: CALR: calreticulin; CANX: calnexin; CLF: crude lysosome fraction; EIF4EBP1: eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E binding protein 1; ER: endoplasmic reticulum; GST: glutathione S-transferase; HA: hemagglutinin; HEK293T: human embryonic kidney-293T; KAT7: lysine acetyltransferase 7; Kcr; lysine crotonylation; KO: knockout; LAMP2: lysosomal associated membrane protein 2; LAMTOR/Ragulator: late endosomal/lysosomal adaptor: MAPK and MTOR activator; MAP1LC3B: microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3 beta; MTOR: mechanistic target of rapamycin kinase; PDI: protein disulfide isomerase; PTM: post-translational modification; RPS6KB1/p70S6 kinase 1: ribosomal protein S6 kinase B1; RPTOR: regulatory associated protein of MTOR complex 1; SESN2: sestrin 2; TMEM192: transmembrane protein 192; ULK1: unc-51 like autophagy activating kinase 1.
PXD018885	35268023	Red-Fleshed Apples Rich in Anthocyanins and White-Fleshed Apples Modulate the Aorta and Heart Proteome in Hypercholesterolaemic Rats: The AppleCOR Study. 	Red-fleshed apples rich in anthocyanins and white-fleshed apples poor in anthocyanins modulate aorta and heart proteome in hypercholesterolemic rats. The AppleCOR study	anthocyanins, apple, phenolic compounds, rat tissues	The impact of a red-fleshed apple (RFA) rich in anthocyanins (ACNs), a white-fleshed apple (WFA) without ACNs, and an extract infusion from Aronia fruit (AI) equivalent in dose of cyanidin-3-O-galactoside (main ACN) as RFA was determined by the proteome profile of aorta and heart as key cardiovascular tissues. Hypercholesterolaemic Wistar rats were separated into six groups (n = 6/group; three males and three females) and the proteomic profiles were analyzed using nanoliquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. No adverse events were reported and all products were well tolerated. RFA downregulated C1QB and CFP in aorta and CRP in heart. WFA downregulated C1QB and CFP in aorta and C9 and C3 in aorta and heart, among other proteins. AI downregulated PRKACA, IQGAP1, and HSP90AB1 related to cellular signaling. Thus, both apples showed an anti-inflammatory effect through the complement system, while RFA reduced CRP. Regardless of the ACN content, an apple matrix effect was observed that involved different bioactive components, and inflammatory proteins were reduced.
PXD030920	35268705	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Drug Trichosanthin Addition to BeWo Cell Line. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of drug trichosanthin addition to BeWo cell line	BeWo Proteome	Trichosanthin (TCS) is a traditional Chinese herbal medicine used to treat some gynecological diseases. Its effective component has diverse biological functions, including antineoplastic activity. The human trophoblast cell line BeWo was chosen as an experimental model for in vitro testing of a drug screen for anticancer properties of TCS. The MTT method was used in this study to get a primary screen result. The result showed that 100 mM had the best IC50 value. Proteomics analysis was then performed for further investigation of the drug effect of TCS on the BeWo cell line. In this differential proteomic expression analysis, the total proteins extracted from the BeWo cell line and their protein expression level after the drug treatment were compared by 2DE. Then, 24 unique three-fold differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were successfully identified by MALDI-TOF/TOF MS. Label-free proteomics was run as a complemental method for the same experimental procedure. There are two proteins that were identified in both the 2DE and label-free methods. Among those identified proteins, bioinformatics analysis showed the importance of pathway and signal transduction and gives us the potential possibility for the disease treatment hypothesis.
PXD029900	35269711	Protein Expression of AEBP1, MCM4, and FABP4 Differentiate Osteogenic, Adipogenic, and Mesenchymal Stromal Stem Cells. 	Proteome dataset of cultured human bone marrow derived stromal (stem) cells, adipocytes and osteoblasts	DIA	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) gain an increasing focus in the field of regenerative medicine due to their differentiation abilities into chondrocytes, adipocytes, and osteoblastic cells. However, it is apparent that the transformation processes are extremely complex and cause cellular heterogeneity. The study aimed to characterize differences between MSCs and cells after adipogenic (AD) or osteoblastic (OB) differentiation at the proteome level. Comparative proteomic profiling was performed using tandem mass spectrometry in data-independent acquisition mode. Proteins were quantified by deep neural networks in library-free mode and correlated to the Molecular Signature Database (MSigDB) hallmark gene set collections for functional annotation. We analyzed 4108 proteins across all samples, which revealed a distinct clustering between MSCs and cell differentiation states. Protein expression profiling identified activation of the Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) signaling pathway after AD. In addition, two distinct protein marker panels could be defined for osteoblastic and adipocytic cell lineages. Hereby, overexpression of AEBP1 and MCM4 for OB as well as of FABP4 for AD was detected as the most promising molecular markers. Combination of deep neural network and machine-learning algorithms with data-independent mass spectrometry distinguish MSCs and cell lineages after adipogenic or osteoblastic differentiation. We identified specific proteins as the molecular basis for bone formation, which could be used for regenerative medicine in the future.
PXD031803	35269851	Reduction in Phosphoribulokinase Amount and Re-Routing Metabolism in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii CP12 Mutants. 	Reduction of Phosphoribulokinase Amount and Re-Routing Metabolism in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii CP12 Mutants	CP12, Calvin Benson Bassham, carbon allocation, enzymatic activity, glyoxylate pathway, intrinsically disordered protein, nitrogen uptake, photosynthesis, quantitative proteomics	The chloroplast protein CP12 is involved in the dark/light regulation of the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle, in particular, in the dark inhibition of two enzymes: glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and phosphoribulokinase (PRK), but other functions related to stress have been proposed. We knocked out the unique CP12 gene to prevent its expression in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii (DeltaCP12). The growth rates of both wild-type and DeltaCP12 cells were nearly identical, as was the GAPDH protein abundance and activity in both cell lines. On the contrary, the abundance of PRK and its specific activity were significantly reduced in DeltaCP12, as revealed by relative quantitative proteomics. Isolated PRK lost irreversibly its activity over-time in vitro, which was prevented in the presence of recombinant CP12 in a redox-independent manner. We have identified amino acid residues in the CP12 protein that are required for this new function preserving PRK activity. Numerous proteins involved in redox homeostasis and stress responses were more abundant and the expressions of various metabolic pathways were also increased or decreased in the absence of CP12. These results highlight CP12 as a moonlighting protein with additional functions beyond its well-known regulatory role in carbon metabolism.
PXD030182	35269949	Multi-Omics Analysis in beta-Thalassemia Using an HBB Gene-Knockout Human Erythroid Progenitor Cell Model. 	Multi-omics analysis into the molecular mechanisms underlying the up-regulation of HBG1/2 expression induced by HBB deletion	HBB, HBG1/2, HIF1 pathway, Human Proteome Project, Omics-study, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Stems Cells (B/D-HPP), Stress erythropoiesis	beta-thalassemia is a hematologic disease that may be associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Increased expression of HBG1/2 can ameliorate the severity of beta-thalassemia. Compared to the unaffected population, some beta-thalassemia patients display elevated HBG1/2 expression levels in their red blood cells. However, the magnitude of up-regulation does not reach the threshold of self-healing, and thus, the molecular mechanism underlying HBG1/2 expression in the context of HBB-deficiency requires further elucidation. Here, we performed a multi-omics study examining chromatin accessibility, transcriptome, proteome, and phosphorylation patterns in the HBB homozygous knockout of the HUDEP2 cell line (HBB-KO). We found that up-regulation of HBG1/2 in HBB-KO cells was not induced by the H3K4me3-mediated genetic compensation response. Deletion of HBB in human erythroid progenitor cells resulted in increased ROS levels and production of oxidative stress, which led to an increased rate of apoptosis. Furthermore, in response to oxidative stress, slower cell cycle progression and proliferation were observed. In addition, stress erythropoiesis was initiated leading to increased intracellular HBG1/2 expression. This molecular model was also validated in the single-cell transcriptome of hematopoietic stem cells from beta-hemoglobinopathy patients. These findings further the understanding of HBG1/2 gene regulatory networks and provide novel clinical insights into beta-thalassemia phenotypic diversity.
PXD017794	35271278	Cancer Conformational Landscape Shapes Tumorigenesis. 	Covalent Protein Painting on Cancer Cell Lines	3D proteome, conformational proteome	During tumorigenesis, DNA mutations in protein coding sequences can alter amino acid sequences which can change the structures of proteins. While the 3D structure of mutated proteins has been studied with atomic resolution, the precise impact of somatic mutations on the 3D proteome during malignant transformation remains unknown because methods to reveal in vivo protein structures in high throughput are limited. Here, we measured the accessibility of the lysine epsilon-amine for chemical modification across proteomes using covalent protein painting (CPP) to indirectly determine alterations in the 3D proteome. CPP is a novel, high-throughput quantitative mass spectrometric method that surveyed a total of 8052 lysine sites across the 60 cell lines of the well-studied anticancer cell line panel (NCI60). Overall, 5.2 structural alterations differentiated any cancer cell line from the other 59. Structural aberrations in 98 effector proteins correlated with the selected presence of 90 commonly mutated proteins in the NCI60 cell line panel, suggesting that different tumor genotypes reshape a limited set of effector proteins. We searched our dataset for druggable conformational aberrations and identified 49 changes in the cancer conformational landscape that correlated with the growth inhibition profiles of 300 drug candidates out of 50,000 small molecules. We found that alterations in heat shock proteins are key predictors of anticancer drug efficacy, which implies that the proteostasis network may have a general but hitherto unrecognized role in maintaining malignancy. Individual lysine sites may serve as biomarkers to guide drug selection or may be directly targeted for anticancer drug development.
PXD028275	35271351	Multiomic profiling of iron-deficient infant monkeys reveals alterations in neurologically important biochemicals in serum and cerebrospinal fluid before the onset of anemia. 	Multiomic Profiling of Iron Deficient Infant Monkeys Reveals Alterations in Neurologically Important Biochemicals in Serum and CSF Prior to the Onset of Anemia	CSF, TMT, acute phase, infancy, iron deficiency anemia, metabolomics, monkey, neurological function, serum, synaptogenesis	The effects of iron deficiency (ID) during infancy extend beyond the hematologic compartment and include short- and long-term adverse effects on many tissues including the brain. However, sensitive biomarkers of iron-dependent brain health are lacking in humans. To determine whether serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers of ID-induced metabolic dysfunction are concordant in the pre/early anemic stage of ID before anemia in a nonhuman primate model of infantile iron deficiency anemia (IDA). ID (n = 7), rhesus infants at 4 mo (pre-anemic period) and 6 mo of age (anemic) were examined. Hematological, metabolomic, and proteomic profiles were generated via HPLC/MS at both time points to discriminate serum biomarkers of ID-induced brain metabolic dysfunction. We identified 227 metabolites and 205 proteins in serum. Abnormalities indicating altered liver function, lipid dysregulation, and increased acute phase reactants were present in ID. In CSF, we measured 210 metabolites and 1,560 proteins with changes in ID infants indicative of metabolomic and proteomic differences indexing disrupted synaptogenesis. Systemic and CSF proteomic and metabolomic changes were present and concurrent in the pre-anemic and anemic periods. Multiomic serum and CSF profiling uncovered pathways disrupted by ID in both the pre-anemic and anemic stages of infantile IDA, including evidence for hepatic dysfunction and activation of acute phase response. Parallel changes observed in serum and CSF potentially provide measurable serum biomarkers of ID that reflect at-risk brain processes prior to progression to clinical anemia.
PXD026049	35271765	Comparative phosphoproteomics reveal new candidates in the regulation of spermatogenesis of Drosophila melanogaster. 	Drosophila melanogaster male reproduction system iTraq phosphoproteome	Drosophila melanogaster, male reproduction system	The most common phenotype induced by the endosymbiont Wolbachia in insects is cytoplasmic incompatibility, where none or fewer progenies can be produced when Wolbachia-infected males mate with uninfected females. This suggests that some modifications are induced in host sperms during spermatogenesis by Wolbachia. To identify the proteins whose phosphorylation states play essential roles in male reproduction in Drosophila melanogaster, we applied isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based proteomic strategy combined with titanium dioxide (TiO2 ) enrichment to compare the phosphoproteome of Wolbachia-infected with that of uninfected male reproductive systems in D. melanogaster. We identified 182 phosphopeptides, defining 140 phosphoproteins, that have at least a 1.2 fold change in abundance with a P-value of <0.05. Most of the differentially abundant phosphoproteins (DAPPs) were associated with microtubule cytoskeleton organization and spermatid differentiation. The DAPPs included proteins already known to be associated with spermatogenesis, as well as many not previously studied during this process. Six genes coding for DAPPs were knocked down, respectively, in Wolbachia-free fly testes. Among them, Slmap knockdown caused the most severe damage in spermatogenesis, with no mature sperm observed in seminal vesicles. Immunofluorescence staining showed that the formation of individualization complex composed of actin cones was completely disrupted. These results suggest that Wolbachia may induce wide changes in the abundance of phosphorylated proteins which are closely related to male reproduction. By identifying phospho-modulated proteins we also provide a significant candidate set for future studies on their roles in spermatogenesis.
PXD031243	35271816	Active DNA damage eviction by HLTF stimulates nucleotide excision repair. 	From incision to excision: active DNA damage eviction by HLTF stimulates repair	DNA damage, HLTF, Nucleotide Excision Repair, TFIIH, UV damage response, damage eviction, genome stability, post-replication repair, repair synthesis	Nucleotide excision repair (NER) counteracts the onset of cancer and aging by removing helix-distorting DNA lesions via a "cut-and-patch"-type reaction. The regulatory mechanisms that drive NER through its successive damage recognition, verification, incision, and gap restoration reaction steps remain elusive. Here, we show that the RAD5-related translocase HLTF facilitates repair through active eviction of incised damaged DNA together with associated repair proteins. Our data show a dual-incision-dependent recruitment of HLTF to the NER incision complex, which is mediated by HLTF's HIRAN domain that binds 3'-OH single-stranded DNA ends. HLTF's translocase motor subsequently promotes the dissociation of the stably damage-bound incision complex together with the incised oligonucleotide, allowing for an efficient PCNA loading and initiation of repair synthesis. Our findings uncover HLTF as an important NER factor that actively evicts DNA damage, thereby providing additional quality control by coordinating the transition between the excision and DNA synthesis steps to safeguard genome integrity.
PXD030847	35271851	Identification and characterization of the key enzyme in the biosynthesis of the neurotoxin beta-ODAP in grass pea. 	Identification and characterization of beta-ODAP synthase in grass pea	Lathyrus sativus, beta-ODAP synthetase, grass pea, toxin, trascriptome	Grass pea (Lathyrus sativus L.) is a grain legume commonly grown in Asia and Africa for food and forage. It is a highly nutritious and robust crop, capable of surviving both droughts and floods. However, it produces a neurotoxic compound, beta-N-oxalyl-L-alpha,beta-diaminopropionic acid (beta-ODAP), which can cause a severe neurological disorder when consumed as a primary diet component. While the catalytic activity associated with beta-ODAP formation was demonstrated more than 50 years ago, the enzyme responsible for this activity has not been identified. Here, we report on the identity, activity, 3D structure, and phylogenesis of this enzyme-beta-ODAP synthase (BOS). We show that BOS belongs to the benzylalcohol O-acetyltransferase, anthocyanin O-hydroxycinnamoyltransferase, anthranilate N-hydroxycinnamoyl/benzoyltransferase, deacetylvindoline 4-O-acetyltransferase superfamily of acyltransferases and is structurally similar to hydroxycinnamoyl transferase. Using molecular docking, we propose a mechanism for its catalytic activity, and using heterologous expression in tobacco leaves (Nicotiana benthamiana), we demonstrate that expression of BOS in the presence of its substrates is sufficient for beta-ODAP production in vivo. The identification of BOS may pave the way toward engineering beta-ODAP-free grass pea cultivars, which are safe for human and animal consumption.
PXD026739	35272497	Bispecific Antibody Expressed by an Oncolytic Herpes Simplex Virus Type 2 Can Transform Heterologous T Cells Into Uniform Tumor Killer Cells. 	Human-derived PBMCs were stimulated by different groups to kill tumor cells.After 48 hours, PBMCs were taken out, and the enrichment of activated proteins of relevant lymphocytes and the regulation of pathways were examined by proteomics.	TMT-labeled quantitative proteomics research, human PBMC	BsAb (bispecific antibody)-armed oncolytic viruses (OVs) are effective in regulating tumor microenvironment. However, oHSV2 (oncolytic herpes simplex virus type 2) expressing immune checkpoints targeting BsAb molecules are not reported. Here, we generated oHSV2-armed PD-L1/CD3 BsAb and established pharmacodynamic evaluation models, which suggested that our oHSV2-BsAb molecules have an improved oncolytic potency in vitro and in vivo. The oHSV2 viruses armed with BsAb molecules targeting programmed cell death ligand 1 (PD-L1)/CD3 or CD19/CD3 (oHSV2-PD-L1/CD3-BsAb or oHSV2-CD19/mCD3-BsAb) were constructed; besides inducing oncolysis in virus-infected tumor cells, the modified oncolytic virus oHSV2-PD-L1/CD3-BsAb can also activate peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) by releasing PD-L1/CD3 BsAb and thereby induce PBMC-mediated killing of PD-L1-positive tumor cells, regardless of PD-L1 expression level. The expressed PD-L1/CD3 BsAb can upregulate the activation markers of T cells in PBMCs and induce different cytokine secretion. The activation of T cells and the enrichment of related immune regulatory pathways are further confirmed by proteomics. It also demonstrated that the OVs or PBMCs could upregulate PD-L1 expression on the surface of tumor cells through transforming "cold tumors" with low PD-L1 expression into "hot tumors" with high PD-L1 expression, which can facilitate the targeting of BsAb molecules and enhance the effect of oncolysis. oHSV2-PD-L1/CD3-BsAb or oHSV2-CD19/mCD3-BsAb showed an enhanced oncolytic effect in vitro and in vivo compared to backbone virus oHSV2-GFP. Our results showed that the newly designed oHSV2-BsAb had enhanced therapeutic effects against solid tumors and provided a new option of immunotherapy.
PXD031539	35273242	Valosin-containing protein-regulated endoplasmic reticulum stress causes NOD2-dependent inflammatory responses. 	Valosin-containing protein-regulated endoplasmic reticulum stress causes NOD2-dependent inflammatory responses	NOD2, immunoprecipitation	NOD2 polymorphisms may affect sensing of the bacterial muramyl dipeptide (MDP) and trigger perturbed inflammatory responses. Genetic screening of a patient with immunodeficiency and enteropathy revealed a rare homozygous missense mutation in the first CARD domain of NOD2 (ENST00000300589; c.160G > A, p.E54K). Biochemical assays confirmed impaired NOD2-dependent signaling and proinflammatory cytokine production in patient's cells and heterologous cellular models with overexpression of the NOD2 mutant. Immunoprecipitation-coupled mass spectrometry unveiled the ATPase valosin-containing protein (VCP) as novel interaction partner of wildtype NOD2, while the binding to the NOD2 variant p.E54K was abrogated. Knockdown of VCP in coloncarcinoma cells led to impaired NF-kappaB activity and IL8 expression upon MDP stimulation. In contrast, tunicamycin-induced ER stress resulted in increased IL8, CXCL1, and CXCL2 production in cells with knockdown of VCP, while enhanced expression of these proinflammatory molecules was abolished upon knockout of NOD2. Taken together, these data suggest that VCP-mediated inflammatory responses upon ER stress are NOD2-dependent.
PXD017318	35273305	New insights into the resistance mechanism for the BceAB-type transporter SaNsrFP. 	Mechanism of BceAB-type transporter: Resistance by lipid II flipping	BceAB-type, antibiotic resistance, bacitracin, lipid II, nisin	Treatment of bacterial infections is one of the major challenges of our time due to the evolved resistance mechanisms of pathogens against antibiotics. To circumvent this problem, it is necessary to understand the mode of action of the drug and the mechanism of resistance of the pathogen. One of the most potent antibiotic targets is peptidoglycan (PGN) biosynthesis, as this is an exclusively occurring and critical feature of bacteria. Lipid II is an essential PGN precursor synthesized in the cytosol and flipped into the outer leaflet of the membrane prior to its incorporation into nascent PGN. Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), such as nisin and colistin, targeting PGN synthesis are considered promising weapons against multidrug-resistant bacteria. However, human pathogenic bacteria that were also resistant to these compounds evolved by the expression of an ATP-binding cassette transporter of the bacitracin efflux (BceAB) type localized in the membrane. In the human pathogen Streptococcus agalactiae, the BceAB transporter SaNsrFP is known to confer resistance to the antimicrobial peptide nisin. The exact mechanism of action for SaNsrFP is poorly understood. For a detailed characterization of the resistance mechanism, we heterologously expressed SaNsrFP in Lactococcus lactis. We demonstrated that SaNsrFP conferred resistance not only to nisin but also to a structurally diverse group of antimicrobial PGN-targeting compounds such as ramoplanin, lysobactin, or bacitracin/(Zn)-bacitracin. Growth experiments revealed that SaNsrFP-producing cells exhibited normal behavior when treated with nisin and/or bacitracin, in contrast to the nonproducing cells, for which growth was significantly reduced. We further detected the accumulation of PGN precursors in the cytoplasm after treating the cells with bacitracin. This did not appear when SaNsrFP was produced. Whole-cell proteomic protein experiments verified that the presence of SaNsrFP in L. lactis resulted in higher production of several proteins associated with cell wall modification. These included, for example, the N-acetylmuramic acid-6-phosphate etherase MurQ and UDP-glucose 4-epimerase. Analysis of components of the cell wall of SaNsrFP-producing cells implied that the transporter is involved in cell wall modification. Since we used an ATP-deficient mutant of the transporter as a comparison, we can show that SaNsrFP and its inactive mutant do not show the same phenotype, albeit expressed at similar levels, which demonstrates the ATP dependency of the mediated resistance processes. Taken together, our data agree to a target protection mechanism and imply a direct involvement of SaNsrFP in resistance by shielding the membrane-localized target of these antimicrobial peptides, resulting in modification of the cell wall.
PXD030189	35273627	A Continuous Assay Set to Screen and Characterize Novel Protein N-Acetyltransferases Unveils Rice General Control Non-repressible 5-Related N-Acetyltransferase2 Activity. 	A continuous assay set to screen and characterize novel protein N-acetyltransferases unveils rice GNAT2 activity	GNAT, N-acetyltransferase, NatA, acetylation, modifications, rice	Protein N-acetyltransferases (NATs) belong to the general control non-repressible 5 (Gcn5)-related N-acetyltransferases (GNATs) superfamily. GNATs catalyze the transfer of acetyl from acetyl-CoA to the reactive amine moiety of a wide range of acceptors. NAT sequences are difficult to distinguish from other members of the GNAT superfamily and there are many uncharacterized GNATs. To facilitate the discovery and characterization of new GNATs, we have developed a new continuous, non-radioactive assay. This assay is virtually independent of the substrate and can be used to get substrate specificity hints. We validated first the assay with the well-characterized Schizosaccharomyces pombe NatA (SpNatA). The SpNatA kinetic parameters were determined with various peptides confirming the robustness of the new assay. We reveal that the longer the peptide substrate the more efficient the enzyme. As a proof of concept of the relevance of the new assay, we characterized a NAA90 member from rice (Oryza sativa), OsGNAT2. We took advantage of an in vivo medium-scale characterization of OsGNAT2 specificity to identify and then validate in vitro several specific peptide substrates. With this assay, we reveal long-range synergic effects of basic residues on OsGNAT2 activity. Overall, this new, high-throughput assay allows better understanding of the substrate specificity and activity of any GNAT.
PXD028903	35273922	Plasmodium falciparum GBP2 Is a Telomere-Associated Protein That Binds to G-Quadruplex DNA and RNA. 	Plasmodium falciparum GBP2 pulldown	GBP2, Plasmodium, malaria	In the early-diverging protozoan parasite Plasmodium, few telomere-binding proteins have been identified and several are unique. Plasmodium telomeres, like those of most eukaryotes, contain guanine-rich repeats that can form G-quadruplex structures. In model systems, quadruplex-binding drugs can disrupt telomere maintenance and some quadruplex-binding drugs are potent anti-plasmodial agents. Therefore, telomere-interacting and quadruplex-interacting proteins may offer new targets for anti-malarial therapy. Here, we report that P. falciparum GBP2 is such a protein. It was identified via 'Proteomics of Isolated Chromatin fragments', applied here for the first time in Plasmodium. In vitro, PfGBP2 binds specifically to G-rich telomere repeats in quadruplex form and it can also bind to G-rich RNA. In vivo, PfGBP2 partially colocalises with the known telomeric protein HP1 but is also found in the cytoplasm, probably due to its affinity for RNA. Consistently, its interactome includes numerous RNA-associated proteins. PfGBP2 is evidently a multifunctional DNA/RNA-binding factor in Plasmodium.
PXD029443	35274615	Progressive axonopathy when oligodendrocytes lack the myelin protein CMTM5. 	Progressive axonopathy when oligodendrocytes lack the myelin protein CMTM5	Oligodendrocyte, Wallerian degeneration, central nervous system (CNS), chemokine-like factor-like MARVEL-transmembrane domain containing protein (CMTM) family, label-free proteomics, myelin proteome, neurodegeneration	Oligodendrocytes facilitate rapid impulse propagation along the axons they myelinate and support their long-term integrity. However, the functional relevance of many myelin proteins has remained unknown. Here, we find that expression of the tetraspan-transmembrane protein CMTM5 (chemokine-like factor-like MARVEL-transmembrane domain containing protein 5) is highly enriched in oligodendrocytes and central nervous system (CNS) myelin. Genetic disruption of the Cmtm5 gene in oligodendrocytes of mice does not impair the development or ultrastructure of CNS myelin. However, oligodendroglial Cmtm5 deficiency causes an early-onset progressive axonopathy, which we also observe in global and tamoxifen-induced oligodendroglial Cmtm5 mutants. Presence of the Wld(S) mutation ameliorates the axonopathy, implying a Wallerian degeneration-like pathomechanism. These results indicate that CMTM5 is involved in the function of oligodendrocytes to maintain axonal integrity rather than myelin biogenesis.
PXD029979	35275095	Aberrant tryptophan metabolism in stromal cells is associated with mesenteric fibrosis in small intestinal neuroendocrine tumors. 	Mesenteric fibrosis in small intestinal neuroendocrine tumors.	Fibrosis, biomarker, neuroendocrine tumors, small intestine	Background: Increased levels of serotonin secretion are associated with mesenteric fibrosis (MF) in small intestinal neuroendocrine tumors (SI-NETs). However, the profibrotic potential of serotonin differs between patients, and in this study, we aimed to gain an understanding of the mechanisms underlying this variability. To this end, we analyzed the proteins involved in tryptophan metabolism in SI-NETs. Methods: Proteomes of tumor and stroma from primary SI-NETs and paired mesenteric metastases of patients with MF (n = 6) and without MF (n = 6) were identified by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). The differential expression of proteins involved in tryptophan metabolism between patients with and without MF was analyzed. Concurrently, monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A) expression was analyzed in the tumor and stromal compartment by immunohistochemistry (IHC) and reported as intensity over area (I/A). Results: Of the 42 proteins involved in tryptophan metabolism, 20 were detected by LC-MS. Lower abundance of ten proteins was found in mesenteric metastases stroma in patients with MF. No differential expression was found in primary SI-NETs. In patients with MF, IHC showed lower MAO-A expression in the stroma of the primary SI-NETs (median 4.2 I/A vs 6.5 I/A in patients without MF, P = 0.003) and mesenteric metastases (median 2.1 I/A vs 2.8 I/A in patients without MF, P= 0.019). Conclusion: We found a decreased expression of tryptophan and serotonin-metabolizing enzymes in the stroma in patients with MF, most notably in the mesenteric stroma. This might account for the increased profibrotic potential of serotonin and explain the variability in the development of SI-NET-associated fibrotic complications.
PXD022360	35276035	Leveraging Parameter Dependencies in High-Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion-Mobility Spectrometry and Size Exclusion Chromatography for Proteome-wide Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry. 	Leveraging Parameter Dependencies in High-Field Asymmetric Waveform Ion-Mobility Spectrometry and Size-exclusion Chromatography for Proteome-wide Crosslinking Mass Spectrometry_CLMS dataset	CLMS, FAIMS, PPI, SEC, chromatography	Ion-mobility spectrometry shows great promise to tackle analytically challenging research questions by adding another separation dimension to liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The understanding of how analyte properties influence ion mobility has increased through recent studies, but no clear rationale for the design of customized experimental settings has emerged. Here, we leverage machine learning to deepen our understanding of field asymmetric waveform ion-mobility spectrometry for the analysis of cross-linked peptides. Knowing that predominantly m/z and then the size and charge state of an analyte influence the separation, we found ideal compensation voltages correlating with the size exclusion chromatography fraction number. The effect of this relationship on the analytical depth can be substantial as exploiting it allowed us to almost double unique residue pair detections in a proteome-wide cross-linking experiment. Other applications involving liquid- and gas-phase separation may also benefit from considering such parameter dependencies.
PXD026938	35276600	Protein disulfide isomerase family A member 3 expression is upregulated in tissue-derived extracellular vesicles in oral lichen planus and oral lichenoid lesions. 	Proteomic Screening of OLP/OLL-EVs	Proteomic Screening, extracellular vesicles, oral lichen planus/oral lichenoid lesion	OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to identify the tissue-derived extracellular vesicles immunogen involved in the pathogenesis of oral lichen planus (OLP) and its variation oral lichenoid lesions (OLL). DESIGN: Six pooled tissue-derived extracellular vesicles from participants with OLP/OLL and three from healthy controls were isolated and enriched. The extracellular vesicles were characterized with transmission electronic microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis and western blotting. Proteins from extracellular vesicles were identified with proteomics analysis and differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were further identified with a 2-fold (p < 0.05) increase or a 0.5-fold decrease. RESULTS: A total of 1805 peptides and 141 proteins were identified. Ten DEPs were further identified, with five upregulated proteins of fibrinogen alpha chain, lamin isoform A, 40S ribosomal protein, protein disulfide isomerase family A member 3 (PDIA3) and elongation factor 1-alpha 1, and five downregulated proteins of plakophilin-1, katanin p80 repeat-containing subunit B1, collagen alpha-3 chain, mitochondrial 2-oxoglutarate/malate carrier protein and guanine nucleotide-binding protein subunit gamma-12. PDIA3 was found to be immune-associated and to be involved in the antigen processing and presentation pathway. The upregulation of PDIA3 was confirmed in a verification cohort composed of three pairs of OLP/OLL-extracellular vesicles and healthy controls-extracellular vesicles with western blotting. CONCLUSIONS: Protein disulfide isomerase family A member 3 in extracellular vesicles may play a significant role in the local immune responses and the pathogenesis of oral lichen planus and oral lichenoid lesions.
PXD031330	35277487	The structural basis for regulation of the glutathione transporter Ycf1 by regulatory domain phosphorylation. 	YCf1 Phosphorylation status detection using mass spect	S. cerevisiae	Yeast Cadmium Factor 1 (Ycf1) sequesters heavy metals and glutathione into the vacuole to counter cell stress. Ycf1 belongs to the ATP binding cassette C-subfamily (ABCC) of transporters, many of which are regulated by phosphorylation on intrinsically-disordered domains. The regulatory mechanism of phosphorylation is still poorly understood. Here, we report two cryo-EM structures of Ycf1 at 3.4 Aa and 4.0 Aa resolution in inward-facing open conformations that capture previously unobserved ordered states of the intrinsically disordered regulatory domain (R-domain). R-domain phosphorylation is clearly evident and induces a topology promoting electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions with Nucleotide Binding Domain 1 (NBD1) and the Lasso motif. These interactions stay constant between the structures and are related by rigid body movements of the NBD1/R-domain complex. Biochemical data further show R-domain phosphorylation reorganizes the Ycf1 architecture and is required for maximal ATPase activity. Together, we provide insights into how R-domains control ABCC transporter activity.
PXD017529	35278086	HDL quality features revealed by proteome-lipidome connectivity are associated with atherosclerotic disease. 	HDL Quality Features Revealed by Proteome-Lipidome Connectivity are Associated with Atherosclerotic Disease	HDL, atherosclerotic diseases, high-resolution, lipidomics	Lipoprotein, especially high-density lipoprotein (HDL), particles are composed of multiple heterogeneous subgroups containing various proteins and lipids. The molecular distribution among these subgroups is closely related to cardiovascular disease (CVD). Here, we established high-resolution proteomics and lipidomics (HiPL) methods to depict the molecular profiles across lipoprotein (Lipo-HiPL) and HDL (HDL-HiPL) subgroups by optimizing the resolution of anion-exchange chromatography and comprehensive quantification of proteins and lipids on the omics level. Furthermore, based on the Pearson correlation coefficient analysis of molecular profiles across high-resolution subgroups, we achieved the relationship of proteome-lipidome connectivity (PLC) for lipoprotein and HDL particles. By application of these methods to high-fat, high-cholesterol diet-fed rabbits and acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients, we uncovered the delicate dynamics of the molecular profile and reconstruction of lipoprotein and HDL particles. Of note, the PLC features revealed by the HDL-HiPL method discriminated ACS from healthy individuals better than direct proteome and lipidome quantification or PLC features revealed by the Lipo-HiPL method, suggesting their potential in ACS diagnosis. Together, we established HiPL methods to trace the dynamics of the molecular profile and PLC of lipoprotein and even HDL during the development of CVD.
PXD022005	35278714	LDHA Desuccinylase Sirtuin 5 as A Novel Cancer Metastatic Stimulator in Aggressive Prostate Cancer. 	Human prostate cancer and Lysine succinylation	Lysine succinylation, metastasis, prostate cancer	Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most commonly diagnosed genital cancer in men worldwide. Around 80% of the patients who developed advanced PCa suffered from bone metastasis, with a sharp drop in the survival rate. Despite great efforts, the detailed mechanisms underlying castration-resistant PCa (CRPC) remain unclear. Sirtuin 5 (SIRT5), an NAD(+)-dependent desuccinylase, is hypothesized to be a key regulator of various cancers. However, compared to other SIRTs, the role of SIRT5 in cancer has not been extensively studied. Here, we revealed significantly decreased SIRT5 levels in aggressive PCa cells relative to the PCa stages. The correlation between the decrease in the SIRT5 level and the patient's reduced survival rate was also confirmed. Using quantitative global succinylome analysis, we characterized a significant increase in the succinylation at lysine 118 (K118su) of lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA), which plays a role in increasing LDH activity. As a substrate of SIRT5, LDHA-K118su significantly increased the migration and invasion of PCa cells and LDH activity in PCa patients. This study reveals the reduction of SIRT5 protein expression and LDHA-K118su as a novel mechanism involved in PCa progression, which could serve as a new target to prevent CPRC progression for PCa treatment.
PXD026296	35279202	Adverse stem cell clones within a single patient's tumor predict clinical outcome in AML patients. 	Adverse stem cell features in a single AML sample predict clinical outcome in AML patient cohorts	AML, PDX, Resistance, Stem Cells, Transcriptome	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients suffer dismal prognosis upon treatment resistance. To study functional heterogeneity of resistance, we generated serially transplantable patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models from one patient with AML and twelve clones thereof, each derived from a single stem cell, as proven by genetic barcoding. Transcriptome and exome sequencing segregated clones according to their origin from relapse one or two. Undetectable for sequencing, multiplex fluorochrome-guided competitive in vivo treatment trials identified a subset of relapse two clones as uniquely resistant to cytarabine treatment. Transcriptional and proteomic profiles obtained from resistant PDX clones and refractory AML patients defined a 16-gene score that was predictive of clinical outcome in a large independent patient cohort. Thus, we identified novel genes related to cytarabine resistance and provide proof of concept that intra-tumor heterogeneity reflects inter-tumor heterogeneity in AML.
PXD031820	35281088	iTRAQ-Based Proteome Profiling of Differentially Expressed Proteins in Insulin-Resistant Human Hepatocellular Carcinoma. 	iTRAQ-based Proteome Profiling of Differentially Expressed Proteins in Insulin-resistant Human Hepatocellular Carcinoma	Hepatocellular Carcinoma, Insulin-resistant, PRM, Proteome Profiling, iTRAQ	Recently, the incidences of insulin resistance (IR) and IR-related complications have increased throughout the world, which also associate with poor prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Numerous studies had been focused on the role of IR in tumorigenesis and prognosis of HCC. The proteomic analysis of IR related hepatocellular carcinoma had not been reported by now. In the present study, 196 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified between insulin resistant HepG2 cells and their parental cells, of which 109 proteins were downregulated and 87 proteins were upregulated. Bioinformatics analysis indicated that these DEPs were highly enriched in process of tumorigenesis and tumor progression. PPI network analysis showed that SOX9, YAP1 and GSK3beta as the key nodes, were involved in Wnt and Hippo signaling pathways. Survival analysis revealed that high expression of SOX9 and PRKD3 were strongly associated with reduced patient survival rate. parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) and Western blot analysis were applied to verify the protein level of these four key nodes mentioned above, which showed the same trend as quantified by isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) and confirmed the reliability of our Proteome Profiling analysis. Our results indicated that IR related dysregulation of protein expression might participated in tumorigenesis and malignant phenotype of hepatocarcinoma cells.
PXD030143	35281090	Recurrent Co-Option and Recombination of Cytokine and Three Finger Proteins in Multiple Reproductive Tissues Throughout Salamander Evolution. 	DIA-MS of plethodontid salamander sperm	plethodontid, salamander, sperm	Reproductive proteins evolve at unparalleled rates, resulting in tremendous diversity of both molecular composition and biochemical function between gametes of different taxonomic clades. To date, the proteomic composition of amphibian gametes is largely a molecular mystery, particularly for Urodeles (salamanders and newts) for which few genomic-scale resources exist. In this study, we provide the first detailed molecular characterization of gametes from two salamander species (Plethodon shermani and Desmognathus ocoee) that are models of reproductive behavior. Long-read PacBio transcriptome sequencing of testis and ovary of both species revealed sex-specific expression of many genes common to vertebrate gametes, including a similar expression profile to the egg coat genes of Xenopus oocytes. In contrast to broad conservation of oocyte genes, major testis transcripts included paralogs of salamander-specific courtship pheromones (PRF, PMF, and SPF) that were confirmed as major sperm proteins by mass spectrometry proteomics. Sperm-specific paralogs of PMF and SPF are likely the most abundant secreted proteins in P. shermani and D. ocoee, respectively. In contrast, sperm PRF lacks a signal peptide and may be expressed in cytoplasm. PRF pheromone genes evolved independently multiple times by repeated gene duplication of sperm PRF genes with signal peptides recovered through recombination with PMF genes. Phylogenetic analysis of courtship pheromones and their sperm paralogs support that each protein family evolved for these two reproductive contexts at distinct evolutionary time points between 17 and 360 million years ago. Our combined phylogenetic, transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of plethodontid reproductive tissues support that the recurrent co-option and recombination of TFPs and cytokine-like proteins have been a novel driving force throughout salamander evolution and reproduction.
PXD030288	35281567	Comparative N-Glycoproteomics Analysis of Clinical Samples Via Different Mass Spectrometry Dissociation Methods. 	EThcD-sceHCD-MS/MS-based Clinical N-glycoproteomics	EThcD-sceHCD, N-glycosylation, clinical sample, fragmentation mode, glycoproteomics	Site-specific N-glycosylation characterization requires intact N-glycopeptide analysis based on suitable tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) method. Electron-transfer/higher-energy collisional dissociation (EThcD), stepped collision energy/higher-energy collisional dissociation (sceHCD), higher-energy collisional dissociation-product-dependent electron-transfer dissociation (HCD-pd-ETD), and a hybrid mass spectrometry fragmentation method EThcD-sceHCD have emerged as valuable approaches for glycoprotein analysis. However, each of them incurs some compromise, necessitating the systematic performance comparisons when applied to the analysis of complex clinical samples (e.g., plasma, urine, cells, and tissues). Herein, we compared the performance of EThcD-sceHCD with those previous approaches (EThcD, sceHCD, HCD-pd-ETD, and sceHCD-pd-ETD) in the intact N-glycopeptide analysis, and determined its applicability for clinical N-glycoproteomic study. The intact N-glycopeptides of distinct samples, namely, plasma from prostate cancer (PCa) patients, urine from immunoglobulin A nephropathy (IgAN) patients, human hepatocarcinoma cell line (HepG2), and thyroid tissues from thyroid cancer (TC) patients were analyzed by these methods. We found that EThcD-sceHCD outperformed other methods in the balance of depth and accuracy of intact N-glycopeptide identification, and sceHCD and EThcD-sceHCD have good complementarity. EThcD-sceHCD holds great potential for biomarker discovery from clinical samples.
PXD030945	35283765	Unraveling the Proteomic Landscape of Intestinal Epithelial Cell-Derived Exosomes in Mice. 	Proteomic landscape of intestinal epithelial cell-derived exosomes in mice	ACE2, Exosome proteins, Exosomes, Intestinal epithelial cells	Purpose: This study aimed to identify the biological functions of small intestine intestinal epithelial cell derived exosomes (IEC-Exos) and further distinguished the difference proteins in IEC-Exos between ileum and jejunum related to function of the digestive system and occurrence of several diseases. Materials and Methods: IECs of Male C57BL/6J mice were isolated. IEC-Exos were extracted from jejunum and ileum epithelial cell culture fluid by ultracentrifugation. In addition, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) combined with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) were used to detect IEC-Exo proteins and conduct biological information analysis. Results: The results showed that compared with jejunum IEC-Exos from ileum IEC-Exos, there were 393 up-regulated proteins and 346 down-regulated proteins. IECs-Exos, especially derived from jejunum, were rich in angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). The highly expressed proteins from ileum IEC-Exos were mostly enriched in genetic information processing pathways, which mainly mediate the processes of bile acid transport, protein synthesis and processing modification. In contrast, the highly expressed proteins from jejunum IEC-Exos were mainly enriched in metabolic pathways involved in sugar, fatty acid, amino acid, drug, and bone metabolism, etc. The differentially expressed proteins between ileum and jejunum IEC-Exos were not only related to the function of the digestive system but also closely related to the occurrence of infectious diseases, endocrine diseases and osteoarthritis, etc. Conclusion: IEC-Exos there were many differentially expressed proteins between ileum and jejunum, which played different roles in regulating intestinal biological functions. ACE2, the main host cell receptor of SARS-CoV-2, was highly expressed in IEC-Exos, which indicated that IEC-Exos may be a potential route of SARS-CoV-2 infection.
PXD030941	35283847	Stoichiometry of the Gene Products From the Tetrachloroethene Reductive Dehalogenase Operon pceABCT. 	Stoichiometry of the gene products from the tetrachloroethene reductive dehalogenase operon pceABCT	Dehalobacter restrictus, Desulfitobacterium hafniense, Firmicutes, Organohalide respiration, quantitative proteomics, reductive dehalogenase, stoichiometry, tetrachloroethene	Organohalide respiration (OHR) is a bacterial anaerobic process that uses halogenated compounds, e.g., tetrachloroethene (PCE), as terminal electron acceptors. Our model organisms are Dehalobacter restrictus strain PER-K23, an obligate OHR bacterium (OHRB), and Desulfitobacterium hafniense strain TCE1, a bacterium with a versatile metabolism. The key enzyme is the PCE reductive dehalogenase (PceA) that is encoded in the highly conserved gene cluster (pceABCT) in both above-mentioned strains, and in other Firmicutes OHRB. To date, the functions of PceA and PceT, a dedicated molecular chaperone for the maturation of PceA, are well defined. However, the role of PceB and PceC are still not elucidated. We present a multilevel study aiming at deciphering the stoichiometry of pceABCT individual gene products. The investigation was assessed at RNA level by reverse transcription and (quantitative) polymerase chain reaction, while at protein level, proteomic analyses based on parallel reaction monitoring were performed to quantify the Pce proteins in cell-free extracts as well as in soluble and membrane fractions of both strains using heavy-labeled reference peptides. At RNA level, our results confirmed the co-transcription of all pce genes, while the quantitative analysis revealed a relative stoichiometry of the gene transcripts of pceA, pceB, pceC, and pceT at ~ 1.0:3.0:0.1:0.1 in D. restrictus. This trend was not observed in D. hafniense strain TCE1, where no substantial difference was measured for the four genes. At proteomic level, an apparent 2:1 stoichiometry of PceA and PceB was obtained in the membrane fraction, and a low abundance of PceC in comparison to the other two proteins. In the soluble fraction, a 1:1 stoichiometry of PceA and PceT was identified. In summary, we show that the pce gene cluster is transcribed as an operon with, however, a level of transcription that differs for individual genes, an observation that could be explained by post-transcriptional events. Despite challenges in the quantification of integral membrane proteins such as PceB and PceC, the similar abundance of PceA and PceB invites to consider them as forming a membrane-bound PceA2B protein complex, which, in contrast to the proposed model, seems to be devoid of PceC.
PXD030944	35283867	Integrative Transcriptome and Proteome Analysis Reveals the Absorption and Metabolism of Selenium in Tea Plants [Camellia sinensis (L.) O. Kuntze]. 	Proteome data in response to selenium	Camellia sinensis, selenate, selenite	Certain tea plants (Camellia sinensis) have the ability to accumulate selenium. In plants, the predominant forms of bioavailable Se are selenite (SeO3 (2-)) and selenate (SeO4 (2-)). We applied transcriptomics and proteomics to hydroponically grown plants treated with selenite or selenate for 48 h in the attempt to elucidate the selenium absorption and assimilation mechanisms in tea. A total of 1,844 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 691 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were obtained by comparing the Na2SeO3 and Na2SeO4 treatments against the control. A GO analysis showed that the genes related to amino acid and protein metabolism and redox reaction were strongly upregulated in the plants under the Na2SeO3 treatment. A KEGG pathway analysis revealed that numerous genes involved in amino acid and glutathione metabolism were upregulated, genes and proteins associated with glutathione metabolism and ubiquinone and terpenoid-quinone biosynthesis were highly expressed. Genes participating in DNA and RNA metabolism were identified and proteins related to glutathione metabolism were detected in tea plants supplemented with Na2SeO4. ABC, nitrate and sugar transporter genes were differentially expressed in response to selenite and selenate. Phosphate transporter (PHT3;1a, PHT1;3b, and PHT1;8) and aquaporin (NIP2;1) genes were upregulated in the presence of selenite. Sulfate transporter (SULTR1;1 and SULTR2;1) expression increased in response to selenate exposure. The results of the present study have clarified Se absorption and metabolism in tea plants, and play an important theoretical reference significance for the breeding and cultivation of selenium-enriched tea varieties.
PXD028391	35285725	CsrA-Controlled Proteins Reveal New Dimensions of Acinetobacter baumannii Desiccation Tolerance. 	CsrA-controlled proteins important for Acinetobacter baumannii desiccation tolerance	Acinetobacter baumannii, CsrA, Tn-seq, desiccation, intrinsically disordered proteins	Hospital environments are excellent reservoirs for the opportunistic pathogen Acinetobacter baumannii in part because it is exceptionally tolerant to desiccation. We found that relative to other A. baumannii strains, the virulent strain AB5075 was strikingly desiccation resistant at 2% relative humidity (RH), suggesting that it is a good model for studies of the functional basis of this trait. Consistent with results from other A. baumannii strains at 40% RH, we found the global posttranscriptional regulator CsrA to be critically important for desiccation tolerance of AB5075 at 2% RH. Proteomics experiments identified proteins that were differentially present in wild-type and csrA mutant cells. Subsequent analysis of mutants in genes encoding some of these proteins revealed six genes that were required for wild-type levels of desiccation tolerance. These include genes for catalase, a universal stress protein, a hypothetical protein, and a biofilm-associated protein. Two genes of unknown function had very strong desiccation phenotypes, with one of the two genes predicting an intrinsically disordered protein (IDP) that binds to DNA. Intrinsically disordered proteins are widespread in eukaryotes but less so in prokaryotes. Our results suggest there are new mechanisms underlying desiccation tolerance in bacteria and identify several key functions involved. IMPORTANCE Acinetobacter baumannii is found in terrestrial environments but can cause nosocomial infections in very sick patients. A factor that contributes to the prevalence of A. baumannii in hospital settings is that it is intrinsically resistant to dry conditions. Here, we established the virulent strain A. baumannii AB5075 as a model for studies of desiccation tolerance at very low relative humidity. Our results show that this trait depends on two proteins of unknown function, one of which is predicted to be an intrinsically disordered protein. This category of protein is critical for the small animals named tardigrades to survive desiccation. Our results suggest that A. baumannii may have novel strategies to survive desiccation that have not previously been seen in bacteria.
PXD015649	35285965	Protein speciation is likely to increase the chance of proteins to be determined in 2-DE/MS. 	Towards a better understanding the testicular proteome of domestic pig	2DE-MS, sus srofa	Multiple spotting due to protein speciation might increase a protein's chance of being captured in a random selection of 2-DE spots. We tested this expectation in new (PXD015649) and previously published 2-DE/MS data of porcine and human tissues. For comparison, we included bottom-up proteomics studies (BU-LC/MS) of corresponding biological materials. Analyses of altogether ten datasets proposed that amino acid modification fosters multispotting in 2-DE. Thus, the number of 2-DE spots containing a particular protein more tightly associated with a peptide diversity measure accounting for amino acid modification than with an alternative one disregarding it. Furthermore, every 11th amino acid was a post-translational modification candidate site in 2-DE/MS proteins, whereas in BU-LC/MS proteins this was merely the case in every 21st amino acid. Alternative splicing might contribute to multispotting, since genes encoding 2-DE/MS proteins were found to have on average about 0.3 more transcript variants than their counterparts from BU-LC/MS studies. Correspondingly, resolution completeness as estimated from the representation of transcript variant-rich genes was higher in 2-DE/MS than BU-LC/MS datasets. These findings suggest that the ability to resolve proteomes down to protein species can lead to enrichment of multispotting proteins in 2-DE/MS. Low sensitivity of stains and MS instruments appears to enhance this effect.
PXD030570	35286396	BMAL1 moonlighting as a gatekeeper for LINE1 repression and cellular senescence in primates. 	LC-MS/MS identification of BMAL1 interaction proteins	BMAL1, aging	Aging in humans is intricately linked with alterations in circadian rhythms concomitant with physiological decline and stem cell exhaustion. However, whether the circadian machinery directly regulates stem cell aging, especially in primates, remains poorly understood. In this study, we found that deficiency of BMAL1, the only non-redundant circadian clock component, results in an accelerated aging phenotype in both human and cynomolgus monkey mesenchymal progenitor cells (MPCs). Unexpectedly, this phenotype was mainly attributed to a transcription-independent role of BMAL1 in stabilizing heterochromatin and thus preventing activation of the LINE1-cGAS-STING pathway. In senescent primate MPCs, we observed decreased capacity of BMAL1 to bind to LINE1 and synergistic activation of LINE1 expression. Likewise, in the skin and muscle tissues from the BMAL1-deficient cynomolgus monkey, we observed destabilized heterochromatin and aberrant LINE1 transcription. Altogether, these findings uncovered a noncanonical role of BMAL1 in stabilizing heterochromatin to inactivate LINE1 that drives aging in primate cells.
PXD017899	35289089	Distinguishing functional exosomes and other extracellular vesicles as a nucleic acid cargo by the anion-exchange method. 	Separation of the Bioactive Exosomes from Extracellular Vesicles Derived from Murine CTLs	CTL, Lipidome, exosome	The development of a new large-scale purification protocol is required for research on the reliable bioactivity and drug discovery of extracellular vesicles (EVs). To address this issue, herein, we propose an effective method for preparing high-performance exosomes (EXOs) by using an anion-exchange method. Cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) EVs from 4 L of culture supernatant through a 220 nm cut-off filter are divided into two populations at a deproteinization rate of over 99.97%, which are eluted at low (0.15 M-0.3 M) and high (0.3 M-0.5 M) NaCl concentrations (approximately 2 x 10(12) and 1.5 x 10(12) particles, respectively) through the anion-exchange column chromatography. The former are abundant in EXO proteins, including late endosome-associated proteins and rab-family and integrin-family proteins, and functional micro (mi) RNAs, and have bioactivity for preventing tumour metastasis by depleting mesenchymal cell populations in the primary tumour lesions. By contrast, the latter is microvesicle (MV)-like particles including DNA, core histone and ribosomal proteins, and GC-rich miRNAs with unknown function, and are easily phagocytosed by mannose receptor(+) Kupffer cells. Thus, the anion-exchange method is suitable for the large-scale separation of bioactive EXOs and MV-like EVs as a cargo for dangerous nucleic acids at high-purity.
PXD028952	35289188	Migraine-Associated Mutation in the Na,K-ATPase Leads to Disturbances in Cardiac Metabolism and Reduced Cardiac Function. 	Migraine-associated mutation in the Na,K-ATPase leads to disturbances in cardiac metabolism and reduced cardiac function	Cell Signaling, Contractile Function, Gene Expression and Regulation, Heart Failure, Oxidant Stress	Background Mutations in ATP1A2 gene encoding the Na,K-ATPase alpha2 isoform are associated with familial hemiplegic migraine type 2. Migraine with aura is a known risk factor for heart disease. The Na,K-ATPase is important for cardiac function, but its role for heart disease remains unknown. We hypothesized that ATP1A2 is a susceptibility gene for heart disease and aimed to assess the underlying disease mechanism. Methods and Results Mice heterozygous for the familial hemiplegic migraine type 2-associated G301R mutation in the Atp1a2 gene (alpha2(+/G301R) mice) and matching wild-type controls were compared. Reduced expression of the Na,K-ATPase alpha2 isoform and increased expression of the alpha1 isoform were observed in hearts from alpha2(+/G301R) mice (Western blot). Left ventricular dilation and reduced ejection fraction were shown in hearts from 8-month-old alpha2(+/G301R) mice (cardiac magnetic resonance imaging), and this was associated with reduced nocturnal blood pressure (radiotelemetry). Cardiac function and blood pressure of 3-month-old alpha2(+/G301R) mice were similar to wild-type mice. Amplified Na,K-ATPase-dependent Src kinase/Ras/Erk1/2 (p44/42 mitogen-activated protein kinase) signaling was observed in hearts from 8-month-old alpha2(+/G301R) mice, and this was associated with mitochondrial uncoupling (respirometry), increased oxidative stress (malondialdehyde measurements), and a heart failure-associated metabolic shift (hyperpolarized magnetic resonance). Mitochondrial membrane potential (5,5',6,6'-tetrachloro-1,1',3,3'-tetraethylbenzimidazolocarbocyanine iodide dye assay) and mitochondrial ultrastructure (transmission electron microscopy) were similar between the groups. Proteomics of heart tissue further suggested amplified Src/Ras/Erk1/2 signaling and increased oxidative stress and provided the molecular basis for systolic dysfunction in 8-month-old alpha2(+/G301R) mice. Conclusions Our findings suggest that ATP1A2 mutation leads to disturbed cardiac metabolism and reduced cardiac function mediated via Na,K-ATPase-dependent reactive oxygen species signaling through the Src/Ras/Erk1/2 pathway.
PXD030271	35290083	DNA-PKcs interacts with and phosphorylates Fis1 to induce mitochondrial fragmentation in tubular cells during acute kidney injury. 	DNA-PKcs Interacts with  Fis1  Induce Mitochondrial Fragmentation During Acute Kidney Injury	Acute renal injury, DNA-PKcs, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genome, apoptosis, mitochondria	The catalytic subunit of DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PKcs) regulates cell death. We sought to determine whether DNA-PKcs played a role in the tubular damage that occurs during acute kidney injury (AKI) induced by LPS injection (to mimic sepsis), cisplatin administration, or renal ischemia/reperfusion injury. Although DNA-PKcs normally localizes to the nucleus, we detected cytoplasmic DNA-PKcs in mouse kidney tissues and urinary sediments of human patients with septic AKI. Increased cytoplasmic amounts of DNA-PKcs correlated with renal dysfunction. Tubule cell-specific DNA-PKcs deletion attenuated AKI-mediated tubular cell death and changes in the abundance of various proteins with mitochondrial functions or roles in apoptotic pathways. DNA-PKcs interacted with Fis1 and phosphorylated it at Thr(34) in its TQ motif, which increased the affinity of Fis1 for Drp1 and induced mitochondrial fragmentation. Knockin mice expressing a nonphosphorylatable T34A mutant exhibited improved renal function and histological features and reduced mitochondrial fragmentation upon induction of AKI. Phosphorylation of Thr(34) in Fis1 was detectable in urinary sediments of human patients with septic AKI and correlated with renal dysfunction. Our findings provide insight into the role of cytoplasmic DNA-PKcs and phosphorylated Fis1 in AKI development.
PXD031699	35290799	Parallel kinase pathways stimulate actin polymerization at depolarized mitochondria. 	Parallel kinase pathways stimulate actin polymerization at depolarized mitochondria	Cdc42 GEF, MEFs, Phosphoproteomics, Rac GEF, actin, mitochondria	Mitochondrial damage (MtD) represents a dramatic change in cellular homeostasis, necessitating metabolic changes and stimulating mitophagy. One rapid response to MtD is a rapid peri-mitochondrial actin polymerization termed ADA (acute damage-induced actin). The activation mechanism for ADA is unknown. Here, we use mitochondrial depolarization or the complex I inhibitor metformin to induce ADA. We show that two parallel signaling pathways are required for ADA. In one pathway, increased cytosolic calcium in turn activates PKC-beta, Rac, WAVE regulatory complex, and Arp2/3 complex. In the other pathway, a drop in cellular ATP in turn activates AMPK (through LKB1), Cdc42, and FMNL formins. We also identify putative guanine nucleotide exchange factors for Rac and Cdc42, Trio and Fgd1, respectively, whose phosphorylation states increase upon mitochondrial depolarization and whose suppression inhibits ADA. The depolarization-induced calcium increase is dependent on the mitochondrial sodium-calcium exchanger NCLX, suggesting initial mitochondrial calcium efflux. We also show that ADA inhibition results in enhanced mitochondrial shape changes upon mitochondrial depolarization, suggesting that ADA inhibits these shape changes. These depolarization-induced shape changes are not fragmentation but a circularization of the inner mitochondrial membrane, which is dependent on the inner mitochondrial membrane protease Oma1. ADA inhibition increases the proteolytic processing of an Oma1 substrate, the dynamin GTPase Opa1. These results show that ADA requires the combined action of the Arp2/3 complex and formin proteins to polymerize a network of actin filaments around mitochondria and that the ADA network inhibits the rapid mitochondrial shape changes that occur upon mitochondrial depolarization.
PXD028792	35291876	Functional characterization of the human Cdk10/Cyclin Q complex. 	Functional characterization of the human Cdk10/Cyclin Q complex	Cdk10, Cyclin M, Cyclin Q, RNA polymerase II, cell cycle, transcription	Cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) are key players in cell cycle regulation and transcription. The CDK-family member Cdk10 is important for neural development and can act as a tumour suppressor, but the underlying molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. Here, we provide an in-depth analysis of Cdk10 substrate specificity and function. Using recombinant Cdk10/CycQ protein complexes, we characterize RNA pol II CTD, c-MYC and RB1 as in vitro protein substrates. Using an analogue-sensitive mutant kinase, we identify 89 different Cdk10 phosphosites in HEK cells originating from 66 different proteins. Among these, proteins involved in cell cycle, translation, stress response, growth signalling, as well as rRNA, and mRNA transcriptional regulation, are found. Of a set of pan-selective CDK- and Cdk9-specific inhibitors tested, all inhibited Cdk10/CycQ at least five times weaker than their proposed target kinases. We also identify Cdk10 as an in vitro substrate of Cdk1 and Cdk5 at multiple sites, allowing for a potential cross-talk between these CDKs. With this functional characterization, Cdk10 adopts a hybrid position in both cell cycle and transcriptional regulation.
PXD028663	35292347	Structural Insights into the Catalytic Cycle of a Bacterial Multidrug ABC Efflux Pump. 	Structural insights into the catalytic cycle of a bacterial multidrug ABC efflux pump	ABC transporter, BmrA, Multidrug resistance, hydrogen-deuterium exchange MS	ABC ("ATP-Binding Cassette") transporters of the type IV subfamily consist of exporters involved in the efflux of many compounds, notably those capable to confer multidrug resistance like the mammalian P-glycoprotein or the bacterial transporter BmrA. They function according to an alternating access mechanism between inward-facing (IF) and outward-facing (OF) conformations, but the extent of physical separation between the two nucleotide-binding domains (NBDs) in different states is still unsettled. Small Angle Neutron Scattering and hydrogen/deuterium exchange coupled to mass spectrometry were used to highlight different conformational states of BmrA during its ATPase cycle. In particular, mutation of the conserved Lysine residue of the Walker-A motif (K380A) captures BmrA in an ATP-bound IF conformation prior to NBD closure. While in the transition-like state induced by vanadate wild-type BmrA is mainly in an OF conformation, the transporter populates only IF conformations in either the apo state or in the presence of ADP/Mg. Importantly, in this post-hydrolytic step, distances between the two NBDs of BmrA seem to be more separated than in the apo state, but they remain shorter than the widest opening found in the related MsbA transporter. Overall, our results highlight the main steps of the catalytic cycle of a homodimeric bacterial multidrug transporter and underline structural and functional commonalities as well as oddities among the type IV subfamily of ABC transporters.
PXD020271	35292711	BRCA1 mutations in high-grade serous ovarian cancer are associated with proteomic changes in DNA repair, splicing, transcription regulation and signaling. 	BRCA1-dependent ubiquitination and phosphorylation regulates signaling events in high-grade serous ovarian cancer tissues	BRCA1, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, ovarian cancer, phosphorylation, ubiquitination	Despite recent advances in the management of BRCA1 mutated high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSC), the physiology of these tumors remains poorly understood. Here we provide a comprehensive molecular understanding of the signaling processes that drive HGSC pathogenesis with the addition of valuable ubiquitination profiling, and their dependency on BRCA1 mutation-state directly in patient-derived tissues. Using a multilayered proteomic approach, we show the tight coordination between the ubiquitination and phosphorylation regulatory layers and their role in key cellular processes related to BRCA1-dependent HGSC pathogenesis. In addition, we identify key bridging proteins, kinase activity, and post-translational modifications responsible for molding distinct cancer phenotypes, thus providing new opportunities for therapeutic intervention, and ultimately advance towards a more personalized patient care.
PXD030879	35292781	Gasdermin E mediates resistance of pancreatic adenocarcinoma to enzymatic digestion through a YBX1-mucin pathway. 	Gasdermin E mediates resistance of pancreatic adenocarcinoma to enzymatic digestion through a YBX1-mucin pathway	GSDME,Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma,YBX1, MUCIN	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) originates from normal pancreatic ducts where digestive juice is regularly produced. It remains unclear how PDAC can escape autodigestion by digestive enzymes. Here we show that human PDAC tumour cells use gasdermin E (GSDME), a pore-forming protein, to mediate digestive resistance. GSDME facilitates the tumour cells to express mucin 1 and mucin 13, which form a barrier to prevent chymotrypsin-mediated destruction. Inoculation of GSDME(-/-) PDAC cells results in subcutaneous but not orthotopic tumour formation in mice. Inhibition or knockout of mucin 1 or mucin 13 abrogates orthotopic PDAC growth in NOD-SCID mice. Mechanistically, GSDME interacts with and transports YBX1 into the nucleus where YBX1 directly promotes mucin expression. This GSDME-YBX1-mucin axis is also confirmed in patients with PDAC. These findings uncover a unique survival mechanism of PDAC cells in pancreatic microenvironments.
PXD031259	35293314	Characterization of a highly diverged mitochondrial ATP synthase Fo subunit in Trypanosoma brucei. 	Characterisation of a highly diverged putative mitochondrial ATP synthase peripheral stalk subunit b in Trypanosoma brucei	RNAi, SILAC, Trypanosoma brucei, quantitative proteomics	The mitochondrial F1Fo ATP synthase of the parasite Trypanosoma brucei has been previously studied in detail. This unusual enzyme switches direction in functionality during the life cycle of the parasite, acting as an ATP synthase in the insect stages, and as an ATPase to generate mitochondrial membrane potential in the mammalian bloodstream stages. Whereas the trypanosome F1 moiety is relatively highly conserved in structure and composition, the Fo subcomplex and the peripheral stalk have been shown to be more variable. Interestingly, a core subunit of the latter, the normally conserved subunit b, has been resistant to identification by sequence alignment or biochemical methods. Here, we identified a 17 kDa mitochondrial protein of the inner membrane, Tb927.8.3070, that is essential for normal growth, efficient oxidative phosphorylation, and membrane potential maintenance. Pull-down experiments and native PAGE analysis indicated that the protein is both associated with the F1Fo ATP synthase and integral to its assembly. In addition, its knockdown reduced the levels of Fo subunits, but not those of F1, and disturbed the cell cycle. Finally, analysis of structural homology using the HHpred algorithm showed that this protein has structural similarities to Fo subunit b of other species, indicating that this subunit may be a highly diverged form of the elusive subunit b.
PXD029228	35293570	Dysregulated RNA polyadenylation contributes to metabolic impairment in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. 	Dysregulated RNA polyadenylation contributes to metabolic impairment in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease	NAFLD, RNA alternative splicing, RNA polyadenylation, SR protein, Splicing factor, liver., obesity	Pre-mRNA processing is an essential mechanism for the generation of mature mRNA and the regulation of gene expression in eukaryotic cells. While defects in pre-mRNA processing have been implicated in a number of diseases their involvement in metabolic pathologies is still unclear. Here, we show that both alternative splicing and alternative polyadenylation, two major steps in pre-mRNA processing, are significantly altered in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Moreover, we find that Serine and Arginine Rich Splicing Factor 10 (SRSF10) binding is enriched adjacent to consensus polyadenylation motifs and its expression is significantly decreased in NAFLD, suggesting a role mediating pre-mRNA dysregulation in this condition. Consistently, inactivation of SRSF10 in mouse and human hepatocytes in vitro, and in mouse liver in vivo, was found to dysregulate polyadenylation of key metabolic genes such as peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha (PPARA) and exacerbate diet-induced metabolic dysfunction. Collectively our work implicates dysregulated pre-mRNA polyadenylation in obesity-induced liver disease and uncovers a novel role for SRSF10 in this process.
PXD031378	35293576	Vertebrate lonesome kinase modulates the hepatocyte secretome to prevent perivascular liver fibrosis and inflammation. 	Effects of VLK knockout on the proteome of primary mouse hepatocytes	hepatocyte, liver	Vertebrate lonesome kinase (VLK) is the only known extracellular tyrosine kinase, but its physiological functions are largely unknown. We show that VLK is highly expressed in hepatocytes of neonatal mice, but downregulated during adulthood. To determine the role of VLK in liver homeostasis and regeneration, we generated mice with a hepatocyte-specific knockout of the VLK gene (Pkdcc). Cultured progenitor cells established from primary hepatocytes of Pkdcc knockout mice produced a secretome, which promoted their own proliferation in 3D spheroids and proliferation of cultured fibroblasts. In vivo, Pkdcc knockout mice developed liver steatosis with signs of inflammation and perivascular fibrosis upon aging, combined with expansion of liver progenitor cells. In response to chronic CCl4-induced liver injury, the pattern of deposited collagen was significantly altered in these mice. The liver injury marker alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) was increased in the secretome of VLK-deficient cultured progenitor cells and in liver tissues of aged or CCl4-treated knockout mice. These results support a key role for VLK and extracellular protein phosphorylation in liver homeostasis and repair through paracrine control of liver cell function and regulation of appropriate collagen deposition. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD031904	35293747	Mapping Tyrosine Kinases Based on a TK Activity-Representing Peptide Library Reveals a Role for SRC in H1975 Drug Resistance. 	Mapping Tyrosine Kinase Based on TK Activity Representing Peptide Library Reveals a Role for SRC in H1975 Drug Resistance	Drug resistance, Phosphorylation sites, Superbinder, TARPL-MRM, TK rearrangement	Tyrosine kinases (TKs) are prominent targets in cancer therapies, and more than 30 TK inhibitors have been approved for treatments in tumors with abnormal TK. Disappointingly, an incomplete response can occur with the long-term use of TK inhibitors, known as cancer drug resistance, which can be caused by kinome reprogramming. Hence, monitoring the status of TKs is crucial for revealing the underlying drug resistance mechanism. Here, we describe a TK activity-representing peptide library-based multiple reaction monitoring (TARPL-MRM) strategy for directly inferring TK activities. The strategy facilitated the assay of 87 human TKs through target quantification of 301 phosphorylation sites. Using this strategy, we demonstrated the heterogeneity of TK activity in different non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell lines and assessed the response of TK activities to the EGFR inhibitor AZD9291 in NSCLC cells. We found that the acquired resistance of H1975 cells to AZD9291 requires SRC activity, and inhibition of SRC plays potential roles in overcoming this resistance. In summary, our work reveals that this strategy has the potential to become a powerful tool for TK studies, clinical diagnostics, and the discovery of new therapeutic targets.
PXD032074	35294035	Functional nuclear retention of pre-mRNA involving Cajal bodies during meiotic prophase in European larch (Larix decidua). 	Larch microsporocytes cytosplasmic fraction	cytoplasm, larch, meiosis, microsporocytes	Gene regulation ensures that the appropriate genes are expressed at the proper time. Nuclear retention of incompletely spliced or mature mRNAs is emerging as a novel, previously underappreciated layer of posttranscriptional regulation. Studies on this phenomenon indicated that it exerts a significant influence on the regulation of gene expression by regulating export and translation delay, which allows the synthesis of specific proteins in response to a stimulus or at strictly controlled time points, for example, during cell differentiation or development. Here, we show that transcription in microsporocytes of European larch (Larix decidua) occurs in a pulsatile manner during prophase of the first meiotic division. Transcriptional activity was then silenced after each pulse. However, the transcripts synthesized were not exported immediately to the cytoplasm but were retained in the nucleoplasm and Cajal bodies (CBs). In contrast to the nucleoplasm, we did not detect mature transcripts in CBs, which only stored nonfully spliced transcripts with retained introns. Notably, the retained introns were spliced at precisely defined times, and fully mature mRNAs were released into the cytoplasm for translation. As similar processes have been observed during spermatogenesis in animals, our results illustrate an evolutionarily conserved mechanism of gene expression regulation during generative cells development in Eukaryota.
PXD024637	35294231	Galectin-1 prevents pathological vascular remodeling in atherosclerosis and abdominal aortic aneurysm. 	Shotgun LC-MS analysis of aorta and liver tissues from WT and Gal-1 KO mice to study the role of Galectin-1 in vascular remodeling in atherosclerosis and abdominal aortic aneurysm	Aorta, LC-MS, Liver	Pathological vascular remodeling is the underlying cause of atherosclerosis and abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Here, we analyzed the role of galectin-1 (Gal-1), a beta-galactoside-binding protein, as a therapeutic target for atherosclerosis and AAA. Mice lacking Gal-1 (Lgals1(-/-)) developed severe atherosclerosis induced by pAAV/D377Y-mPCSK9 adenovirus and displayed higher lipid levels and lower expression of contractile markers of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) in plaques than wild-type mice. Proteomic analysis of Lgals1(-/-) aortas showed changes in markers of VSMC phenotypic switch and altered composition of mitochondrial proteins. Mechanistically, Gal-1 silencing resulted in increased foam cell formation and mitochondrial dysfunction in VSMCs, while treatment with recombinant Gal-1 (rGal-1) prevented these effects. Furthermore, rGal-1 treatment attenuated atherosclerosis and elastase-induced AAA, leading to higher contractile VSMCs in aortic tissues. Gal-1 expression decreased in human atheroma and AAA compared to control tissue. Thus, Gal-1-driven circuits emerge as potential therapeutic strategies in atherosclerosis and AAA.
PXD047272	35294889	The PAF1 complex promotes 3' processing of pervasive transcripts. 	Spatiotemporal control of SMARCA5 by a MAPK-RUNX1 axis distinguishes mutant KRAS-driven pancreatic malignancy from tissue regeneration	mousee SMARCA5 PDAC	The PAF1 complex (PAF1C) functions in multiple transcriptional processes involving RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II). Enhancer RNAs (eRNAs) and promoter upstream transcripts (PROMPTs) are pervasive transcripts transcribed by RNA Pol II and degraded rapidly by the nuclear exosome complex after 3' endonucleolytic cleavage by the Integrator complex (Integrator). Here we show that PAF1C has a role in termination of eRNAs and PROMPTs that are cleaved 1-3 kb downstream of the transcription start site. Mechanistically, PAF1C facilitates recruitment of Integrator to sites of pervasive transcript cleavage, promoting timely cleavage and transcription termination. We also show that PAF1C recruits Integrator to coding genes, where PAF1C then dissociates from Integrator upon entry into processive elongation. Our results demonstrate a function of PAF1C in limiting the length and accumulation of pervasive transcripts that result from non-productive transcription.
PXD025363	35295306	Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry Analysis Demonstrates a Decrease in Porins and Increase in CMY-2 beta-Lactamases in Escherichia coli Exposed to Increasing Concentrations of Meropenem. 	LC-MS/MS analysis demonstrates a decrease in porins and increase in CMY-2-like beta-lactamases in E. coli exposed to meropenem	CMY-2-like, E. coli, Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, Meropenem, OmpC, OmpF, antimicrobial resistance, chromosomal AmpC, parallel reaction monitoring	While Extended-Spectrum beta-Lactamases (ESBL) and AmpC beta-lactamases barely degrade carbapenem antibiotics, they are able to bind carbapenems and prevent them from interacting with penicillin-binding proteins, thereby inhibiting their activity. Further, it has been shown that Enterobacterales can become resistant to carbapenems when high concentrations of ESBL and AmpC beta-lactamases are present in the bacterial cell in combination with a decreased influx of antibiotics (due to a decrease in porins and outer-membrane permeability). In this study, a targeted liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) assay was developed for the detection of the Escherichia coli porins OmpC and OmpF, its chromosomal AmpC beta-lactamase, and the plasmid-mediated CMY-2 beta-lactamase. Bla CMY-2-like positive E. coli isolates were cultured in the presence of increasing concentrations of meropenem, and resistant mutants were analyzed using the developed LC-MS/MS assay, Western blotting, and whole genome sequencing. In five strains that became meropenem resistant, a decrease in OmpC and/or OmpF (caused by premature stop codons or gene interruptions) was the first event toward meropenem resistance. In four of these strains, an additional increase in MICs was caused by an increase in CMY-2 production, and in one strain this was most likely caused by an increase in CTX-M-15 production. The LC-MS/MS assay developed proved to be suitable for the (semi-)quantitative analysis of CMY-2-like beta-lactamases and porins within 4 h. Targeted LC-MS/MS could have additional clinical value in the early detection of non-carbapenemase-producing carbapenem-resistant E. coli.
PXD029640	35295332	Chinese Herbal Extracts Exert Neuroprotective Effect in Alzheimer's Disease Mouse Through the Dopaminergic Synapse/Apoptosis Signaling Pathway. 	Quantitative Proteomics Reveal the Protective Effects of CuraUltra Against Alzheimer's Disease via Modulating the Expression of Synapse-associated Proteins in Mouse Model	Hippocampus, LC - MSMS, Tissue	Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) as an age-related, irreversible neurodegenerative disease, characterized by cognitive dysfunction, has become progressively serious with a global rise in life expectancy. As the failure of drug elaboration, considerable research effort has been devoted to developing therapeutic strategies for treating AD. TCM is gaining attention as a potential treatment for AD. Gastrodia elata Blume, Polygala tenuifolia Willd., Cistanche deserticola Ma, Rehmannia lutinosa (Gaertn.)DC., Acorus gramineus Aiton, and Curcuma longa L. (GPCRAC) are all well-known Chinese herbs with neuroprotective benefits and are widely used in traditional Chinese decoction for AD therapy. However, the efficacy and further mechanisms of GPCRAC extracts in AD experimental models are still unclear. The purpose of this study was to investigate the synergistic protective efficacy of GPCRAC extracts (composed of extracts from these six Chinese medicines), and the protein targets mediated by GPCRAC extracts in treating AD. Methods: Scopolamine-induced cognitive impairment mouse model was established to determine the neuroprotective effects of GPCRAC extracts in vivo, as shown by behavioral tests and cerebral cholinergic function assays. To identify the potential molecular mechanism of GPCRAC extracts against AD, label-free quantitative proteomics coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) were performed. The integrated bioinformatics analysis was applied to screen the core differentially expressed proteins in vital canonical pathways. Critical altered proteins were validated by qPCR and Western blotting. Results: Administration of GPCRAC extracts significantly recovered scopolamine-induced cognitive impairment, as evidenced by the improved learning and memory ability, increased Ach content and ChAT activity, as well as decreased AchE activity in the hippocampus of mice. In total, 390 proteins with fold-change>1.2 or <0.83 and p < 0.05 were identified as significant differentially expressed proteins, of which 110 were significantly up-regulated and 25 were significantly down-regulated between control and model group. By mapping the significantly regulated proteins, we identified five hub proteins: PPP2CA, Gsk3beta, PP3CC, PRKACA, and BCL-2 that were associated with dopaminergic synapse and apoptosis signaling pathway, respectively. Western blotting and QPCR demonstrate that the expression levels of these core proteins could be significantly improved by the administration of GPCRAC extracts. These pathways and some of the identified proteins are implicated in AD pathogenesis. Conclusion: Administration of GPCRAC extracts was effective on alleviating scopolamine-induced cognitive impairment, which might be through modulation of dopaminergic synapse and apoptosis signaling pathway. Consequently, our quantitative proteome data obtained from scopolamine-treated model mice successfully characterized AD-related biological alterations and proposed novel protein biomarkers for AD.
PXD030800	35296659	The aberrant upregulation of exon 10-inclusive SREK1 through SRSF10 acts as an oncogenic driver in human hepatocellular carcinoma. 	The aberrant upregulation of exon 10-inclusive SREK1 through SRSF10 acts as an oncogenic driver in human hepatocellular carcinoma	BLOC1S5-TXNDC5, SREK1, SRSF10, alternative splicing, hepatocarcinogenesis, hepatocellular carcinoma, nonsense-mediated mRNA decay, splicing factors	Deregulation of alternative splicing is implicated as a relevant source of molecular heterogeneity in cancer. However, the targets and intrinsic mechanisms of splicing in hepatocarcinogenesis are largely unknown. Here, we report a functional impact of a Splicing Regulatory Glutamine/Lysine-Rich Protein 1 (SREK1) variant and its regulator, Serine/arginine-rich splicing factor 10 (SRSF10). HCC patients with poor prognosis express higher levels of exon 10-inclusive SREK1 (SREK1(L)). SREK1(L) can sustain BLOC1S5-TXNDC5 (B-T) expression, a targeted gene of nonsense-mediated mRNA decay through inhibiting exon-exon junction complex binding with B-T to exert its oncogenic role. B-T plays its competing endogenous RNA role by inhibiting miR-30c-5p and miR-30e-5p, and further promoting the expression of downstream oncogenic targets SRSF10 and TXNDC5. Interestingly, SRSF10 can act as a splicing regulator for SREK1(L) to promote hepatocarcinogenesis via the formation of a SRSF10-associated complex. In summary, we demonstrate a SRSF10/SREK1(L)/B-T signalling loop to accelerate the hepatocarcinogenesis.
PXD022731	35296684	CEP128 is involved in spermatogenesis in humans and mice. 	Dysfunction of CEP128 impairs spermatogenesis but not ciliogenesis in humans and mice	CEP128, centrosome, infertility, spermatogenesis	Centrosomal proteins are necessary components of the centrosome, a conserved eukaryotic organelle essential to the reproductive process. However, few centrosomal proteins have been genetically linked to fertility. Herein we identify a homozygous missense variant of CEP128 (c.665 G > A [p.R222Q]) in two infertile males. Remarkably, male homozygous knock-in mice harboring the orthologous CEP128(R222Q) variant show anomalies in sperm morphology, count, and motility. Moreover, Cep128 knock-out mice manifest male infertility associated with disrupted sperm quality. We observe defective sperm flagella in both homozygous Cep128 KO and KI mice; the cilia development in other organs is normal-suggesting that CEP128 variants predominantly affected the ciliogenesis in the testes. Mechanistically, CEP128 is involved in male reproduction via regulating the expression of genes and/or the phosphorylation of TGF-beta/BMP-signalling members during spermatogenesis. Altogether, our findings unveil a crucial role for CEP128 in male fertility and provide important insights into the functions of centrosomal proteins in reproductive biology.
PXD030110	35296687	Global profiling of regulatory elements in the histone benzoylation pathway. 	LC-MS/MS identification of Kbz sites on histones catalyzed by non-enzymatic and enzymatic ways.	Gcn5-Ada2, S. cerevisiae, Xenopus laevis octamer, benzoylation, nonenzymatically	Lysine benzoylation (Kbz) is a recently discovered post-translational modification associated with active transcription. However, the proteins for maintaining and interpreting Kbz and the physiological roles of Kbz remain elusive. Here, we systematically characterize writer, eraser, and reader proteins of histone Kbz in S. cerevisiae using proteomic, biochemical, and structural approaches. Our study identifies 27 Kbz sites on yeast histones that can be regulated by cellular metabolic states. The Spt-Ada-Gcn5 acetyltransferase (SAGA) complex and NAD(+)-dependent histone deacetylase Hst2 could function as the writer and eraser of histone Kbz, respectively. Crystal structures of Hst2 complexes reveal the molecular basis for Kbz recognition and catalysis by Hst2. In addition, we demonstrate that a subset of YEATS domains and bromodomains serve as Kbz readers, and structural analyses reveal how YEATS and bromodomains recognize Kbz marks. Moreover, the proteome-wide screening of Kbz-modified proteins identifies 207 Kbz sites on 149 non-histone proteins enriched in ribosome biogenesis, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, and rRNA processing pathways. Our studies identify regulatory elements for the Kbz pathway and provide a framework for dissecting the biological functions of lysine benzoylation.
PXD017525	35300150	An EZH2 blocker sensitizes histone mutated diffuse midline glioma to cholesterol metabolism inhibitors through an off-target effect. 	Proteomic analysis of chemical and genetic EZH2 inhibition in diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma cell lines	Diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma, EZH2 inhibition, EZH2 knock down, GSK126, quantitative proteome	Background: Diffuse Midline Glioma, H3K27M-mutant (DMG) is a rare, highly aggressive pediatric tumor affecting the brainstem, and is one of the deadliest cancers. Currently available treatment options such as chemotherapy and radiotherapy do only modestly prolong survival. In this pathology, H3K27 mutations deregulate Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2), including enzymatic activity of EZH2, which is therefore under investigation as a therapeutic target. Methods: We used a chemical EZH2 inhibitor, GSK126, small interfering RNAs, and a CRISPR/Cas9 knockout approaches in a series of DMG tumor cell lines to investigate metabolic treatment responses by proteomic analysis. A combination strategy was elaborated and studied in primary and established DMG cells, spheroid 3D cultures, and in vivo in a chick chorio-allantoic membrane DMG assay and an orthotopic intracranial DMG mouse model. Results: GSK126 shows significant (P < .05-.001) inhibitory effects in in vitro cell proliferation assays and induces apoptosis. Chemical targeting of EZH2 induced expression of proteins implicated in cholesterol metabolism. Low-dose GSK126 treatment together with statins revealed strong growth inhibition in combinatorial treatments, but not in single treatments, both in DMG cells in vitro, in DMG spheroid cultures, and in chick and mouse in vivo models (P < .05). All statistical tests were two-sided. Conclusions: Our results reveal an unexpected GSK126-inducible sensitivity to cholesterol biosynthesis inhibitors in highly aggressive pediatric glioma that warrants further evaluation as treatment strategy. This combinatorial therapy should have few side effects because of the low doses used to achieve significant anti-tumor activity.
PXD028935	35300415	Applying Sodium Carbonate Extraction Mass Spectrometry to Investigate Defects in the Mitochondrial Respiratory Chain. 	Sodium carbonate extraction mass spectrometry reveals novel steps in mitochondrial respiratory chain complex III assembly	OXPHOS (oxidative phosphorylation), carbonate extraction, membrane protein, mitochondria, proteomic analysis, respiratory chain assembly	Mitochondria are complex organelles containing 13 proteins encoded by mitochondrial DNA and over 1,000 proteins encoded on nuclear DNA. Many mitochondrial proteins are associated with the inner or outer mitochondrial membranes, either peripherally or as integral membrane proteins, while others reside in either of the two soluble mitochondrial compartments, the mitochondrial matrix and the intermembrane space. The biogenesis of the five complexes of the oxidative phosphorylation system are exemplars of this complexity. These large multi-subunit complexes are comprised of more than 80 proteins with both membrane integral and peripheral associations and require soluble, membrane integral and peripherally associated assembly factor proteins for their biogenesis. Mutations causing human mitochondrial disease can lead to defective complex assembly due to the loss or altered function of the affected protein and subsequent destabilization of its interactors. Here we couple sodium carbonate extraction with quantitative mass spectrometry (SCE-MS) to track changes in the membrane association of the mitochondrial proteome across multiple human knockout cell lines. In addition to identifying the membrane association status of over 840 human mitochondrial proteins, we show how SCE-MS can be used to understand the impacts of defective complex assembly on protein solubility, giving insights into how specific subunits and sub-complexes become destabilized.
PXD017397	35300733	Multi-omic alterations of the SWI/SNF complex define a clinical subgroup in lung adenocarcinoma. 	Integrative multi-omic analysis of the SWI/SNF complex defines a new clinical subgroup of lung adenocarcinoma patients	BRG1, IP, NL20	SWI/SNF complexes are major targets of mutations in cancer. Here, we combined multiple "-omics" methods to assess SWI/SNF composition and aberrations in LUAD. Mutations in lung SWI/SNF subunits were highly recurrent in our LUAD cohort (41.4%), and over 70% of the mutations were predicted to have functional impact. Furthermore, SWI/SNF expression in LUAD suffered an overall repression that could not be explained exclusively by genetic alterations. Finally, SWI/SNF mutations were associated with poorer overall survival in TCGA-LUAD. We propose SWI/SNF-mutant LUAD as a separate clinical subgroup with practical implications.
PXD031854	35300983	Pulmonary surfactant protein B carried by HDL predicts incident CVD in patients with type 1 diabetes. 	HDL Proteomics in Coronary Artery Calcification in Type 1 Diabetes (CACTI) Study	CACTI, Diabetes, HDL proteomics, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, Skyline, incident CVD, parallel reaction monitoring, quantification	Atherosclerotic CVD is the major cause of death in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). Alterations in the HDL proteome have been shown to associate with prevalent CVD in T1DM. We therefore sought to determine which proteins carried by HDL might predict incident CVD in patients with T1DM. Using targeted MS/MS, we quantified 50 proteins in HDL from 181 T1DM subjects enrolled in the prospective Coronary Artery Calcification in Type 1 Diabetes study. We used Cox proportional regression analysis and a case-cohort design to test associations of HDL proteins with incident CVD (myocardial infarction, coronary artery bypass grafting, angioplasty, or death from coronary heart disease). We found that only one HDL protein-SFTPB (pulmonary surfactant protein B)-predicted incident CVD in all the models tested. In a fully adjusted model that controlled for lipids and other risk factors, the hazard ratio was 2.17 per SD increase of SFTPB (95% confidence interval, 1.12-4.21, P = 0.022). In addition, plasma fractionation demonstrated that SFTPB is nearly entirely bound to HDL. Although previous studies have shown that high plasma levels of SFTPB associate with prevalent atherosclerosis only in smokers, we found that SFTPB predicted incident CVD in T1DM independently of smoking status and a wide range of confounding factors, including HDL-C, LDL-C, and triglyceride levels. Because SFTPB is almost entirely bound to plasma HDL, our observations support the proposal that SFTPB carried by HDL is a marker-and perhaps mediator-of CVD risk in patients with T1DM.
PXD024606	35301348	Species identification of silks by protein mass spectrometry reveals evidence of wild silk use in antiquity. 	Species identification of silks by protein mass spectrometry	fibroins, silk, wild silk	Silk has been a luxurious commodity throughout modern human history and sericulture has played an important role in ancient global trade as well as technological and cultural developments. Archaeological findings suggest that prior to domestication of the mulberry silkworm (Bombyx mori) silks were obtained from a range of silk-producing moth species with regional specificity. However, investigating the origins of sericulture is difficult as classification of silks by species-type has proved technically challenging. We therefore investigated a range of methods for solubilising modern and archaeological silks and developed a mass spectrometry-based proteomics method that was able to successfully differentiate modern Bombyx, Antheraea, and Samia-produced silks down to the species level. We subsequently analysed archaeological silk materials excavated from the ancient city of Palmyra. Solubilisation behaviour and proteomic analysis provided evidence that the Palmyra silks were constructed from wild silk derived from Antheraea mylitta, the Indian Tasar silkworm. We believe this is the first species-level biochemical evidence that supports archaeological theories about the production and trade of Indian wild silks in antiquity.
PXD005893	35303100	Shotgun and TMT-Labeled Proteomic Analysis of the Ovarian Proteins of an Insect Vector, Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae). 	Shotgun Proteomic Analysis of Proteins Present in Mosquito Ovaries at 24 and 72 h After a Blood Meal	Aedes aegypti, blood meal, eggs, ferritin, iron, ovary	Aedes aegypti [Linnaeus in Hasselquist; yellow fever mosquito] transmits several viruses that infect millions of people each year, including Zika, dengue, yellow fever, chikungunya, and West Nile. Pathogen transmission occurs during blood feeding. Only the females blood feed as they require a bloodmeal for oogenesis; in the bloodmeal, holo-transferrin and hemoglobin provide the females with a high iron load. We are interested in the effects of the bloodmeal on the expression of iron-associated proteins in oogenesis. Previous data showed that following digestion of a bloodmeal, ovarian iron concentrations doubles by 72 hr. We have used shotgun proteomics to identify proteins expressed in Ae. aegypti ovaries at two oogenesis developmental stages following blood feeding, and tandem mass tag-labeling proteomics to quantify proteins expressed at one stage following feeding of a controlled iron diet. Our findings provide the first report of mosquito ovarian protein expression in early and late oogenesis. We identify proteins differentially expressed in the two oogenesis development stages. We establish that metal-associated proteins play an important role in Ae. aegypti oogenesis and we identify new candidate proteins that might be involved in mosquito iron metabolism. Finally, this work identified a unique second ferritin light chain subunit, the first reported in any species. The shotgun proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD005893, while the tandem mass tag-labeled proteomic data are available with identifier PXD028242.
PXD032733	35303681	A quantitative proteomic analysis reveals the potential roles of PRDX3 in neurite outgrowth in N2a-APPswe cells. 	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Reveals potential roles of PRDX3 for neurite outgrowth in N2a-APPswe Cells	PRDX3, mitochondria, neurite	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles accompanied by progressive neurite loss. Mitochondria play pivotal roles in AD development. PRDX3 is a mitochondrial peroxide reductase critical for H2O2 scavenging and signal transduction. In this study, we found that PRDX3 knockdown (KD) in the N2a-APPswe cell line promoted retinoic acid (RA)-induced neurite outgrowth but did not reduce the viability of cells damaged by tert-butyl hydroperoxide (TBHP). We found that knocking down PRDX3 expression induced dysregulation of more than one hundred proteins, as determined by tandem mass tag (TMT)-labeled proteomics. A Gene Ontology (GO) analysis revealed that the dysregulated proteins were enriched in protein localization to the plasma membrane, the lipid catabolic process, and intermediate filament cytoskeleton organization. A STRING analysis showed close protein-protein interactions among dysregulated proteins. The expression of Annexin A1 (ANXA1), serine (Ser)-/threonine (Thr)-protein phosphatase 2A catalytic subunit alpha isoform (PP2A) and glutathione S-transferase Mu 2 (GSTM2) was significantly upregulated in PRDX3-KD N2a-APPswe cell lines, as verified by western blotting. Our study revealed, for the first time, that PRDX3 may play important roles in neurite outgrowth and AD development.
PXD031825	35304442	A point mutation in HIV-1 integrase redirects proviral integration into centromeric repeats. 	Co-immunoprecipitation of proteins with WT HIV-1 IN, K258R HIV-IN, and K258/264/266/273R	HIV-1, K258R	Retroviruses utilize the viral integrase (IN) protein to integrate a DNA copy of their genome into host chromosomal DNA. HIV-1 integration sites are highly biased towards actively transcribed genes, likely mediated by binding of the IN protein to specific host factors, particularly LEDGF, located at these gene regions. We here report a substantial redirection of integration site distribution induced by a single point mutation in HIV-1 IN. Viruses carrying the K258R IN mutation exhibit a high frequency of integrations into centromeric alpha satellite repeat sequences, as assessed by deep sequencing, a more than 10-fold increase over wild-type. Quantitative PCR and in situ immunofluorescence assays confirm this bias of the K258R mutant virus for integration into centromeric DNA. Immunoprecipitation studies identify host factors binding to IN that may account for the observed bias for integration into centromeres. Centromeric integration events are known to be enriched in the latent reservoir of infected memory T cells, as well as in elite controllers who limit viral replication without intervention. The K258R point mutation in HIV-1 IN is also present in databases of latent proviruses found in patients, and may reflect an unappreciated aspect of the establishment of viral latency.
PXD030552	35304446	Characterization of protein unfolding by fast cross-linking mass spectrometry using di-ortho-phthalaldehyde cross-linkers. 	Characterization of progressive denaturation and unfolding intermediates of proteins by fast cross-linking using di-ortho-phthalaldehyde	Amine-selective cross-linker, CXMS, Protein unfolding	Chemical cross-linking of proteins coupled with mass spectrometry is widely used in protein structural analysis. In this study we develop a class of non-hydrolyzable amine-selective di-ortho-phthalaldehyde (DOPA) cross-linkers, one of which is called DOPA2. Cross-linking of proteins with DOPA2 is 60-120 times faster than that with the N-hydroxysuccinimide ester cross-linker DSS. Compared with DSS cross-links, DOPA2 cross-links show better agreement with the crystal structures of tested proteins. More importantly, DOPA2 has unique advantages when working at low pH, low temperature, or in the presence of denaturants. Using staphylococcal nuclease, bovine serum albumin, and bovine pancreatic ribonuclease A, we demonstrate that DOPA2 cross-linking provides abundant spatial information about the conformations of progressively denatured forms of these proteins. Furthermore, DOPA2 cross-linking allows time-course analysis of protein conformational changes during denaturant-induced unfolding.
PXD026080	35305295	Ejection of damaged mitochondria and their removal by macrophages ensure efficient thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue. 	TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles (EVs) released from brown/white adipose tissue following cold exposureTMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles (EVs) released from brown/white adipose tissue fo	BAT/WAT, EVs, LC-MS, TMT	Recent findings have demonstrated that mitochondria can be transferred between cells to control metabolic homeostasis. Although the mitochondria of brown adipocytes comprise a large component of the cell volume and undergo reorganization to sustain thermogenesis, it remains unclear whether an intercellular mitochondrial transfer occurs in brown adipose tissue (BAT) and regulates adaptive thermogenesis. Herein, we demonstrated that thermogenically stressed brown adipocytes release extracellular vesicles (EVs) that contain oxidatively damaged mitochondrial parts to avoid failure of the thermogenic program. When re-uptaken by parental brown adipocytes, mitochondria-derived EVs reduced peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma signaling and the levels of mitochondrial proteins, including UCP1. Their removal via the phagocytic activity of BAT-resident macrophages is instrumental in preserving BAT physiology. Depletion of macrophages in vivo causes the abnormal accumulation of extracellular mitochondrial vesicles in BAT, impairing the thermogenic response to cold exposure. These findings reveal a homeostatic role of tissue-resident macrophages in the mitochondrial quality control of BAT.
PXD024525	35306519	Beta-blocker/ACE inhibitor therapy differentially impacts the steady state signaling landscape of failing and non-failing hearts. 	Beta-blocker/ACE inhibitor therapy differentially impacts the steady state signaling landscape of failing and non-failing hearts.	ACE inhibitor, Cardiac proteomics, HFrEF, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP), phosphoproteomics, ß-AR blocker	Heart failure is a multifactorial disease that affects an estimated 38 million people worldwide. Current pharmacotherapy of heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) includes combination therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEi) and beta-adrenergic receptor blockers (beta-AR blockers), a therapy also used as treatment for non-cardiac conditions. Our knowledge of the molecular changes accompanying treatment with ACEi and beta-AR blockers is limited. Here, we applied proteomics and phosphoproteomics approaches to profile the global changes in protein abundance and phosphorylation state in cardiac left ventricles consequent to combination therapy of beta-AR blocker and ACE inhibitor in HFrEF and control hearts. The phosphorylation changes induced by treatment were profoundly different for failing than for non-failing hearts. HFrEF was characterized by profound downregulation of mitochondrial proteins coupled with derangement of beta-adrenergic and pyruvate dehydrogenase signaling. Upon treatment, phosphorylation changes consequent to HFrEF were reversed. In control hearts, treatment mainly led to downregulation of canonical PKA signaling. The observation of divergent signaling outcomes depending on disease state underscores the importance of evaluating drug effects within the context of the specific conditions present in the recipient heart.
PXD027729	35306933	Drug-like molecules with anti-trypanothione synthetase activity identified by high throughput screening. 	Trypanosoma brucei Trypanothione synthetase modification by Ebselen	Ebselen, Trypanothione synthetase	Trypanothione synthetase (TryS) catalyses the synthesis of N(1),N(8)-bis(glutathionyl)spermidine (trypanothione), which is the main low molecular mass thiol supporting several redox functions in trypanosomatids. TryS attracts attention as molecular target for drug development against pathogens causing severe and fatal diseases in mammals. A drug discovery campaign aimed to identify and characterise new inhibitors of TryS with promising biological activity was conducted. A large compound library (n = 51,624), most of them bearing drug-like properties, was primarily screened against TryS from Trypanosoma brucei (TbTryS). With a true-hit rate of 0.056%, several of the TbTryS hits (IC50 from 1.2 to 36 microM) also targeted the homologue enzyme from Leishmania infantum and Trypanosoma cruzi (IC50 values from 2.6 to 40 microM). Calmidazolium chloride and Ebselen stand out for their multi-species anti-TryS activity at low microM concentrations (IC50 from 2.6 to 13.8 microM). The moieties carboxy piperidine amide and amide methyl thiazole phenyl were identified as novel TbTryS inhibitor scaffolds. Several of the TryS hits presented one-digit microM EC50 against T. cruzi and L. donovani amastigotes but proved cytotoxic against the human osteosarcoma and macrophage host cells (selectivity index <= 3). In contrast, seven hits showed a significantly higher selectivity against T. b. brucei (selectivity index from 11 to 182). Non-invasive redox assays confirmed that Ebselen, a multi-TryS inhibitor, induces an intracellular oxidative milieu in bloodstream T. b. brucei. Kinetic and mass spectrometry analysis revealed that Ebselen is a slow-binding inhibitor that modifies irreversible a highly conserved cysteine residue from the TryS's synthetase domain. The most potent TbTryS inhibitor (a singleton containing an adamantine moiety) exerted a non-covalent, non-competitive (with any of the substrates) inhibition of the enzyme. These data feed the drug discovery pipeline for trypanosomatids with novel and valuable information on chemical entities with drug potential.
PXD030978	35307029	GATD3A, a mitochondrial deglycase with evolutionary origins from gammaproteobacteria, restricts the formation of advanced glycation end products. 	GATD3A, a mitochondrial deglycase with evolutionary origins from gammaproteobacteria, restricts the formation of advanced glycation endproducts	DJ-1, FPLC, Glycation, PARK7, advanced glycation endproduct, deglycase, glutamine amidotransferase, in gel digestion, mitochondria, molecular evolution	BACKGROUND: Functional complexity of the eukaryotic mitochondrial proteome is augmented by independent gene acquisition from bacteria since its endosymbiotic origins. Mammalian homologs of many ancestral mitochondrial proteins have uncharacterized catalytic activities. Recent forward genetic approaches attributed functions to proteins in established metabolic pathways, thereby limiting the possibility of identifying novel biology relevant to human disease. We undertook a bottom-up biochemistry approach to discern evolutionarily conserved mitochondrial proteins with catalytic potential. RESULTS: Here, we identify a Parkinson-associated DJ-1/PARK7-like protein-glutamine amidotransferase-like class 1 domain-containing 3A (GATD3A), with bacterial evolutionary affinities although not from alphaproteobacteria. We demonstrate that GATD3A localizes to the mitochondrial matrix and functions as a deglycase. Through its amidolysis domain, GATD3A removes non-enzymatic chemical modifications produced during the Maillard reaction between dicarbonyls and amines of nucleotides and amino acids. GATD3A interacts with factors involved in mitochondrial mRNA processing and translation, suggestive of a role in maintaining integrity of important biomolecules through its deglycase activity. The loss of GATD3A in mice is associated with accumulation of advanced glycation end products (AGEs) and altered mitochondrial dynamics. CONCLUSIONS: An evolutionary perspective helped us prioritize a previously uncharacterized but predicted mitochondrial protein GATD3A, which mediates the removal of early glycation intermediates. GATD3A restricts the formation of AGEs in mitochondria and is a relevant target for diseases where AGE deposition is a pathological hallmark.
PXD030028	35308368	Rewiring the Metabolic Network to Increase Docosahexaenoic Acid Productivity in Crypthecodinium cohnii by Fermentation Supernatant-Based Adaptive Laboratory Evolution. 	Rewiring the metabolic network to increase docosahexaenoic acid productivity in Crypthecodinium cohnii by fermentation supernatant-based adaptive laboratory evolution	Crypthecodinium cohnii, adaptive laboratory evolution, docosahexaenoic acid, fermentation supernatant tolerance	Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6n-3) plays significant roles in enhancing human health and preventing human diseases. The heterotrophic marine dinoflagellate Crypthecodinium cohnii is a good candidate to produce high-quality DHA. To overcome the inhibition caused by the fermentation supernatant in the late fermentation stage of DHA-producing C. cohnii, fermentation supernatant-based adaptive laboratory evolution (FS-ALE) was conducted. The cell growth and DHA productivity of the evolved strain (FS280) obtained after 280 adaptive cycles corresponding to 840 days of evolution were increased by 161.87 and 311.23%, respectively, at 72 h under stress conditions and increased by 19.87 and 51.79% without any stress compared with the starting strain, demonstrating the effectiveness of FS-ALE. In addition, a comparative proteomic analysis identified 11,106 proteins and 910 differentially expressed proteins, including six stress-responsive proteins, as well as the up- and downregulated pathways in FS280 that might contribute to its improved cell growth and DHA accumulation. Our study demonstrated that FS-ALE could be a valuable solution to relieve the inhibition of the fermentation supernatant at the late stage of normal fermentation of heterotrophic microalgae.
PXD029823	35309263	Venom profile of the European carpenter bee Xylocopa violacea: Evolutionary and applied considerations on its toxin components. 	Proteomics of the venom from Xylocopa violacea	venom	Modern venomics is increasing its focus on hymenopterans such as honeybees, bumblebees, parasitoid wasps, ants and true wasps. However solitary bees remain understudied in comparison and the few available venom studies focus on short melittin-like sequences and antimicrobial peptides. Herein we describe the first comprehensive venom profile of a solitary bee, the violet carpenter bee Xylocopa violacea, by using proteo-transcriptomics. We reveal a diverse and complex venom profile with 43 different protein families identified from dissected venom gland extracts of which 32 are also detected in the defensively injected venom. Melittin and apamin are the most highly secreted components, followed by Phospholipase A2, Icarapin, Secapin and three novel components. Other components, including eight novel protein families, are rather lowly expressed. We further identify multiple forms of apamin-like peptides. The melittin-like sequences of solitary bees separate into two clades, one comprised most sequences from solitary bees including xylopin (the variant in Xylocopa), while sequences from Lasioglossa appear closer related to melittin-like peptides from Bombus (Bombolittins). Our study suggests that more proteo-transcriptomic data from other solitary bees should be complemented with corresponding genome data to fully understand the evolution and complexity of bee venom proteins, and is of a particular need to disentangle the ambiguous phylogenetic relations of short peptides.
PXD013932	35309442	Dissecting Plasmodium yoelii Pathobiology: Proteomic Approaches for Decoding Novel Translational and Post-Translational Modifications. 	Proteomics approaches for decoding Plasmodium yoelii biology	Plasmodium yoelii, post-translational modifications	Malaria is a vector-borne disease. It is caused by Plasmodium parasites. Plasmodium yoelii is a rodent model parasite, primarily used for studying parasite development in liver cells and vectors. To better understand parasite biology, we carried out a high-throughput-based proteomic analysis of P. yoelii. From the same mass spectrometry (MS)/MS data set, we also captured several post-translational modified peptides by following a bioinformatics analysis without any prior enrichment. Further, we carried out a proteogenomic analysis, which resulted in improvements to some of the existing gene models along with the identification of several novel genes. Analysis of proteome and post-translational modifications (PTMs) together resulted in the identification of 3124 proteins. The identified PTMs were found to be enriched in mitochondrial metabolic pathways. Subsequent bioinformatics analysis provided an insight into proteins associated with metabolic regulatory mechanisms. Among these, the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and the isoprenoid synthesis pathway are found to be essential for parasite survival and drug resistance. The proteogenomic analysis discovered 43 novel protein-coding genes. The availability of an in-depth proteomic landscape of a malaria pathogen model will likely facilitate further molecular-level investigations on pre-erythrocytic stages of malaria.
PXD026703	35309488	Semen Proteomics of COVID-19 Convalescent Men Reveals Disruption of Key Biological Pathways Relevant to Male Reproductive Function. 	Viral fallout: Semen proteome reveals COVID-19 dysregulates several biological processes linked to male reproductive function	COVID-19, Covid-19, Male reproductive function, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, Semen	A considerable section of males suffered from COVID-19, with many experiencing long-term repercussions. Recovered males have been documented to have compromised fertility, albeit the mechanisms remain unclear. We investigated the impact of COVID-19 on semen proteome following complete clinical recovery using mass spectrometry. A label-free quantitative proteomics study involved 10 healthy fertile subjects and 17 COVID-19-recovered men. With 1% false discovery rate and >1 unique peptide stringency, MaxQuant analysis found 1099 proteins and 8503 peptides. Of the 48 differentially expressed proteins between the healthy and COVID-19-recovered groups, 21 proteins were downregulated and 27 were upregulated in COVID-19-recovered males. The major pathways involved in reproductive functions, such as sperm-oocyte recognition, testosterone response, cell motility regulation, adhesion regulation, extracellular matrix adhesion, and endopeptidase activity, were downregulated in COVID-19-recovered patients according to bioinformatics analysis. Furthermore, the targeted approach revealed significant downregulation of semenogelin 1 and prosaposin, two proteins related to male fertility. Therefore, we demonstrate the alteration of semen proteome in response to COVID-19, thus disrupting the male reproductive function despite the patient's clinical remission. Hence, to understand fertility-related biological processes triggered by this infection, a protracted evaluation of the consequences of COVID-19 in recovered men is warranted.
PXD024486	35309917	Negative Modulation of Macroautophagy by Stabilized HERPUD1 is Counteracted by an Increased ER-Lysosomal Network With Impact in Drug-Induced Stress Cell Survival. 	Effect of starvation conditions on cultured human H4 neuroglioma cells stably expressing shLuc and shATG5	ATG5, Starvation, cultured human cells	Macroautophagy and the ubiquitin proteasome system work as an interconnected network in the maintenance of cellular homeostasis. Indeed, efficient activation of macroautophagy upon nutritional deprivation is sustained by degradation of preexisting proteins by the proteasome. However, the specific substrates that are degraded by the proteasome in order to activate macroautophagy are currently unknown. By quantitative proteomic analysis we identified several proteins downregulated in response to starvation independently of ATG5 expression. Among them, the most significant was HERPUD1, an ER membrane protein with low expression and known to be degraded by the proteasome under normal conditions. Contrary, under ER stress, levels of HERPUD1 increased rapidly due to a blockage in its proteasomal degradation. Thus, we explored whether HERPUD1 stability could work as a negative regulator of autophagy. In this work, we expressed a version of HERPUD1 with its ubiquitin-like domain (UBL) deleted, which is known to be crucial for its proteasome degradation. In comparison to HERPUD1-WT, we found the UBL-deleted version caused a negative role on basal and induced macroautophagy. Unexpectedly, we found stabilized HERPUD1 promotes ER remodeling independent of unfolded protein response activation observing an increase in stacked-tubular structures resembling previously described tubular ER rearrangements. Importantly, a phosphomimetic S59D mutation within the UBL mimics the phenotype observed with the UBL-deleted version including an increase in HERPUD1 stability and ER remodeling together with a negative role on autophagy. Moreover, we found UBL-deleted version and HERPUD1-S59D trigger an increase in cellular size, whereas HERPUD1-S59D also causes an increased in nuclear size. Interestingly, ER remodeling by the deletion of the UBL and the phosphomimetic S59D version led to an increase in the number and function of lysosomes. In addition, the UBL-deleted version and phosphomimetic S59D version established a tight ER-lysosomal network with the presence of extended patches of ER-lysosomal membrane-contact sites condition that reveals an increase of cell survival under stress conditions. Altogether, we propose stabilized HERPUD1 downregulates macroautophagy favoring instead a closed interplay between the ER and lysosomes with consequences in drug-cell stress survival.
PXD028802	35311290	Deubiquitinase Vulnerabilities Identified through Activity-Based Protein Profiling in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. 	Deubiquitinase Vulnerabilities Identified through Activity Based Protein Profiling in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer	activity-based protein profiling, deubiquitinase, lung cancer	To aid in the prioritization of deubiquitinases (DUBs) as anticancer targets, we developed an approach combining activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) with mass spectrometry in both non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) tumor tissues and cell lines along with analysis of available RNA interference and CRISPR screens. We identified 67 DUBs in NSCLC tissues, 17 of which were overexpressed in adenocarcinoma or squamous cell histologies and 12 of which scored as affecting lung cancer cell viability in RNAi or CRISPR screens. We used the CSN5 inhibitor, which targets COPS5/CSN5, as a tool to understand the biological significance of one of these 12 DUBs, COPS6, in lung cancer. Our study provides a powerful resource to interrogate the role of DUB signaling biology and nominates druggable targets for the treatment of lung cancer subtypes.
PXD025008	35311510	Methanosaeta and "Candidatus Velamenicoccus archaeovorus". 	Methanosaeta and Candidatus Vampirococcus archaeovorus	LPS, Omnitrophica, candidate division OP3, limonene, methanogenic enrichment culture, predatory bacteria	The phylum "Candidatus Omnitrophica" (candidate division OP3) is ubiquitous in anaerobic habitats but is currently characterized only by draft genomes from metagenomes and single cells. We had visualized cells of the phylotype OP3 LiM in methanogenic cultures on limonene as small epibiotic cells. In this study, we enriched OP3 cells by double density gradient centrifugation and obtained the first closed genome of an apparently clonal OP3 cell population by applying metagenomics and PCR for gap closure. Filaments of acetoclastic Methanosaeta, the largest morphotype in the culture community, contained empty cells, cells devoid of rRNA or of both rRNA and DNA, and dead cells according to transmission electron microscopy (TEM), thin-section TEM, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), catalyzed reporter deposition-fluorescence in situ hybridization (CARD-FISH), and LIVE/DEAD imaging. OP3 LiM cells were ultramicrobacteria (200 to 300 nm in diameter) and showed two physiological stages in CARD-FISH fluorescence signals: strong signals of OP3 LiM cells attached to Bacteria and to Archaea indicated many rRNA molecules and an active metabolism, whereas free-living OP3 cells had weak signals. Metaproteomics revealed that OP3 LiM lives with highly expressed secreted proteins involved in depolymerization and uptake of macromolecules and an active glycolysis and energy conservation by the utilization of pyruvate via a pyruvate:ferredoxin oxidoreductase and an Rnf complex (ferredoxin:NAD oxidoreductase). Besides sugar fermentation, a nucleotidyl transferase may contribute to energy conservation by phosphorolysis, the phosphate-dependent depolymerization of nucleic acids. Thin-section TEM showed distinctive structures of predation. Our study demonstrated a predatory metabolism for OP3 LiM cells, and therefore, we propose the name "Candidatus Velamenicoccus archaeovorus" gen. nov., sp. nov., for OP3 LiM. IMPORTANCE Epibiotic bacteria are known to live on and off bacterial cells. Here, we describe the ultramicrobacterial anaerobic epibiont OP3 LiM living on Archaea and Bacteria. We detected sick and dead cells of the filamentous archaeon Methanosaeta in slowly growing methanogenic cultures. OP3 LiM lives as a sugar fermenter, likely on polysaccharides from outer membranes, and has the genomic potential to live as a syntroph. The predatory lifestyle of OP3 LiM was supported by its genome, the first closed genome for the phylum "Candidatus Omnitrophica," and by images of cell-to-cell contact with prey cells. We propose naming OP3 LiM "Candidatus Velamenicoccus archaeovorus." Its metabolic versatility explains the ubiquitous presence of "Candidatus Omnitrophica" 3 in anoxic habitats and gives ultramicrobacterial epibionts an important role in the recycling and remineralization of microbial biomass. The removal of polysaccharides from outer membranes by ultramicrobacteria may also influence biological interactions between pro- and eukaryotes.
PXD030338	35311954	Phosphorylation of SHP2 at Tyr62 Enables Acquired Resistance to SHP2 Allosteric Inhibitors in FLT3-ITD-Driven AML. 	Tyr62 phosphorylation of the phosphatase SHP2 enables acquired resistance to SHP2 allosteric inhibitors in FLT3-ITD-driven AML	AML, PTPN11, SHP2, drug resistance	The protein tyrosine phosphatase SHP2 is crucial for oncogenic transformation of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) cells expressing mutated receptor tyrosine kinases. SHP2 is required for full RAS-ERK activation to promote cell proliferation and survival programs. Allosteric SHP2 inhibitors act by stabilizing SHP2 in its autoinhibited conformation and are currently being tested in clinical trials for tumors with overactivation of the RAS/ERK pathway, alone and in various drug combinations. In this study, we established cells with acquired resistance to the allosteric SHP2 inhibitor SHP099 from two FLT3-ITD (internal tandem duplication)-positive AML cell lines. Label-free and isobaric labeling quantitative mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics of these resistant models demonstrated that AML cells can restore phosphorylated ERK (pERK) in the presence of SHP099, thus developing adaptive resistance. Mechanistically, SHP2 inhibition induced tyrosine phosphorylation and feedback-driven activation of the FLT3 receptor, which in turn phosphorylated SHP2 on tyrosine 62. This phosphorylation stabilized SHP2 in its open conformation, preventing SHP099 binding and conferring resistance. Combinatorial inhibition of SHP2 and MEK or FLT3 prevented pERK rebound and resistant cell growth. The same mechanism was observed in a FLT3-mutated B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line and in the inv(16)/KitD816Y AML mouse model, but allosteric inhibition of Shp2 did not impair the clonogenic ability of normal bone marrow progenitors. Together, these results support the future use of SHP2 inhibitor combinations for clinical applications. SIGNIFICANCE: These findings suggest that combined inhibition of SHP2 and FLT3 effectively treat FLT3-ITD-positive AML, highlighting the need for development of more potent SHP2 inhibitors and combination therapies for clinical applications.
PXD030696	35312232	beta-catenin-controlled tubular cell-derived exosomes play a key role in fibroblast activation via the OPN-CD44 axis. 	beta-catenin-controlled tubular cell-derived exosomes play a key role in fibroblast activation via the OPN-CD44 axis	CD44, Exosomes, OPN, renal fibrosis, beta-catenin	Tubular injury and peripheral fibroblast activation are the hallmarks of chronic kidney disease (CKD), suggesting intimate communication between the two types of cells. However, the underlying mechanisms remain to be determined. Exosomes play a role in shuttling proteins and other materials to recipient cells. In our study, we found that exosomes were aroused by beta-catenin in renal tubular cells. Osteopontin (OPN), especially its N-terminal fragment (N-OPN), was encapsulated in beta-catenin-controlled tubular cell-derived exosome cargo, and subsequently passed to fibroblasts. Through binding with CD44, exosomal OPN promoted fibroblast proliferation and activation. Gene deletion of beta-catenin in tubular cells (Ksp-beta-catenin(-/-) ) or gene ablation of CD44 (CD44(-/-) ) greatly ameliorated renal fibrosis. Notably, N-OPN was carried by exosome and secreted into the urine of patients with CKD, and negatively correlated with kidney function. The urinary exosomes from patients with CKD greatly accelerated renal fibrosis, which was blocked by CD44 deletion. These results suggest that exosome-mediated activation of the OPN/CD44 axis plays a key role in renal fibrosis, which is controlled by beta-catenin.
PXD027443	35312825	Hyperosmolality in CHO cell culture: effects on the proteome. 	Hyperosmolality in CHO Culture: Effects on Proteome	CHO, Q Exactive Plus, cell size, fed-batch, hyperosmolality, nLC-MS LFQ proteomics	Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells are the most commonly used host cell lines for therapeutic protein production. Exposure of these cells to highly concentrated feed solution during fed-batch cultivation can lead to a non-physiological increase in osmolality (> 300 mOsm/kg) that affects cell physiology, morphology, and proteome. As addressed in previous studies (and indeed, as recently addressed in our research), hyperosmolalities of up to 545 mOsm/kg force cells to abort proliferation and gradually increase their volume-almost tripling it. At the same time, CHO cells also show a significant hyperosmolality-dependent increase in mitochondrial activity. To gain deeper insight into the molecular mechanisms that are involved in these processes, as detailed in this paper, we performed a comparative quantitative label-free proteome study of hyperosmolality-exposed CHO cells compared with control cells. Our analysis revealed differentially expressed key proteins that mediate mitochondrial activation, oxidative stress amelioration, and cell cycle progression. Our studies also demonstrate a previously unknown effect: the strong regulation of proteins can alter both cell membrane stiffness and permeability. For example, we observed that three types of septins (filamentous proteins that form diffusion barriers in the cell) became strongly up-regulated in response to hyperosmolality in the experimental setup. Overall, these new observations correlate well with recent CHO-based fluxome and transcriptome studies, and reveal additional unknown proteins involved in the response to hyperosmotic pressure by over-concentrated feed in mammalian cells.Key points* First-time comparative proteome analysis of CHO cells exposed to over-concentrated feed.* Discovery of membrane barrier-forming proteins up-regulation under hyperosmolality.* Description of mitochondrial and protein chaperones activation in treated cells.
PXD026554	35313349	Ubiquitination at the lysine 27 residue of the Parkin ubiquitin-like domain is suggestive of a new mechanism of Parkin activation. 	Ubiquitination at the Parkin ubiquitin-like domain suggests a new mechanism for Parkin activation	Drosophila genetics, PTEN-induced kinase 1, Parkinson disease, neuron, parkin, phosphorylation, ubiquitin	The mitochondrial kinase PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) and cytosolic ubiquitin ligase (E3) Parkin/PRKN are involved in mitochondrial quality control responses. PINK1 phosphorylates ubiquitin and the Parkin ubiquitin-like (Ubl) domain at serine 65 and promotes Parkin activation and translocation to damaged mitochondria. Upon Parkin activation, the Ubl domain is ubiquitinated at lysine (K) 27 and K48 residues. However, the contribution of K27/K48 ubiquitination toward Parkin activity remains unclear. In this study, ubiquitination of K56 (corresponding to K27 in the human), K77 (K48 in the human) or both was blocked by generating Drosophila Parkin (dParkin) mutants to examine the effects of Parkin Ubl domain ubiquitination on Parkin activation in Drosophila. The dParkin, in which K56 was replaced with arginine (dParkin K56R), rescued pupal lethality in flies by co-expression with PINK1, whereas dParkin K77R could not. The dParkin K56R exhibited reduced abilities of mitochondrial fragmentation and motility arrest, which are mediated by degrading Parkin E3 substrates Mitofusin and Miro, respectively. Pathogenic dParkin K56N, unlike dParkin K56R, destabilized the protein, suggesting that not only was dParkin K56N non-ubiquitin-modified at K56, but also the structure of the Ubl domain for activation was largely affected. Ubiquitin attached to K27 of the Ubl domain during PINK1-mediated Parkin activation was likely to be phosphorylated because human Parkin K27R weakened Parkin self-binding and activation in trans. Therefore, our findings suggest a new mechanism of Parkin activation, where an activation complex is formed through phospho-ubiquitin attachment on the K27 residue of the Parkin Ubl domain.
PXD029452	35313969	Phosphorylation regulation of cardiac proteins in Babesia microti infected mice in an effort to restore heart function. 	Phosphorylation regulation of cardiac proteins in Babesia microti infected mice in an effort to restore heart function	Babesia heart	BACKGROUND: Babesia is a common protozoan parasite that infects red blood cells. In mice infected with Babesia microti, the red blood cells were lysed, resulting in decreased oxygen-carrying capacity. To compensate for low blood oxygen levels, stress on the heart was greatly increased. Babesiosis induces a variety of pathologies; meanwhile, heart tissues initiate self-repair responses to babesiosis-induced tissue damage to restore heart function. METHODS: To discover the molecular mechanisms of the damage and self-repair in the heart after B. microti infection in mice, we investigated the changes in protein expression and phosphorylation modification levels in heart tissues at 0, 5, 8, 11, and 19 days post-infection using data-independent acquisition (DIA) quantitative proteomics. RESULTS: The numbers of global proteins we identified were 1934, 1966, 1984, 1989, and 1955 and of phosphopeptides were 5118, 5133, 5130, 5133, and 5140 at 0, 5, 8, 11, and 19 days, respectively, in heart cells after infection with B. microti. The results showed that after B. microti infection the differentially expressed proteins in mice mainly include fibrinogen alpha (Fgalpha), fibrinogen beta (Fgbeta), Serpina1b, Serpina1c, cathepsin Z, cytochrome c oxidases (COXs), RPS11, and RPS20. The proteins with phosphorylation changes mainly include 20-kDa light chain of myosin II (MLC20), myosin light chain kinase (MLCK), mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 (MAPK14), and Akt1. These proteins were mainly involved in coagulation processes, cell apoptosis, oxidative phosphorylation, and ribosomes. CONCLUSIONS: The coagulation cascade-related proteins, apoptosis-related proteins, oxidative phosphorylation-related proteins, and other types of proteins are all involved in the damage and self-repair process in the heart after B. microti infection. These results offer a wealth of new targets for further exploration into the causes of heart disease induced by Babesia infection and are of great significance for novel drug development and new opportunities for targeted therapies.
PXD019314	35313982	Proteomic profiling of hydatid fluid from pulmonary cystic echinococcosis. 	The protein repertoires of hydatid fluid from pulmonary cystic echinococcosis	Echinococcus granulosus, Echinococcus ortleppi, host-parasite interface, hydatid fluid	BACKGROUND: Most cystic echinococcosis cases in Southern Brazil are caused by Echinococcus granulosus and Echinococcus ortleppi. Proteomic studies of helminths have increased our knowledge about the molecular survival strategies that are used by parasites. Here, we surveyed the protein content of the hydatid fluid compartment in E. granulosus and E. ortleppi pulmonary bovine cysts to better describe and compare their molecular arsenal at the host-parasite interface. METHODS: Hydatid fluid samples from three isolates of each species were analyzed using mass spectrometry-based proteomics (LC-MS/MS). In silico functional analyses of the identified proteins were performed to examine parasite survival strategies. RESULTS: The identified hydatid fluid protein profiles showed a predominance of parasite proteins compared to host proteins that infiltrate the cysts. We identified 280 parasitic proteins from E. granulosus and 251 from E. ortleppi, including 52 parasitic proteins that were common to all hydatid fluid samples. The in silico functional analysis revealed important molecular functions and processes that are active in pulmonary cystic echinococcosis, such as adhesion, extracellular structures organization, development regulation, signaling transduction, and enzyme activity. CONCLUSIONS: The protein profiles described here provide evidence of important mechanisms related to basic cellular processes and functions that act at the host-parasite interface in cystic echinococcosis. The molecular tools used by E. granulosus and E. ortleppi for survival within the host are potential targets for new therapeutic approaches to treat cystic echinococcosis and other larval cestodiases.
PXD026463	35314027	A novel immunopeptidomic-based pipeline for the generation of personalized oncolytic cancer vaccines. 	Iimmunopeptidomics pipeline for generation of personalized oncolytic cancer vaccines.	CT26, cancer vaccines, colon cancer, immunopeptidome, ligandome, murine, oncolytic virus, personalized cancer vaccines	Besides the isolation and identification of major histocompatibility complex I-restricted peptides from the surface of cancer cells, one of the challenges is eliciting an effective antitumor CD8+ T-cell-mediated response as part of therapeutic cancer vaccine. Therefore, the establishment of a solid pipeline for the downstream selection of clinically relevant peptides and the subsequent creation of therapeutic cancer vaccines are of utmost importance. Indeed, the use of peptides for eliciting specific antitumor adaptive immunity is hindered by two main limitations: the efficient selection of the most optimal candidate peptides and the use of a highly immunogenic platform to combine with the peptides to induce effective tumor-specific adaptive immune responses. Here, we describe for the first time a streamlined pipeline for the generation of personalized cancer vaccines starting from the isolation and selection of the most immunogenic peptide candidates expressed on the tumor cells and ending in the generation of efficient therapeutic oncolytic cancer vaccines. This immunopeptidomics-based pipeline was carefully validated in a murine colon tumor model CT26. Specifically, we used state-of-the-art immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometric methodologies to isolate >8000 peptide targets from the CT26 tumor cell line. The selection of the target candidates was then based on two separate approaches: RNAseq analysis and HEX software. The latter is a tool previously developed by Jacopo, 2020, able to identify tumor antigens similar to pathogen antigens in order to exploit molecular mimicry and tumor pathogen cross-reactive T cells in cancer vaccine development. The generated list of candidates (26 in total) was further tested in a functional characterization assay using interferon-gamma enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISpot), reducing the number of candidates to six. These peptides were then tested in our previously described oncolytic cancer vaccine platform PeptiCRAd, a vaccine platform that combines an immunogenic oncolytic adenovirus (OAd) coated with tumor antigen peptides. In our work, PeptiCRAd was successfully used for the treatment of mice bearing CT26, controlling the primary malignant lesion and most importantly a secondary, nontreated, cancer lesion. These results confirmed the feasibility of applying the described pipeline for the selection of peptide candidates and generation of therapeutic oncolytic cancer vaccine, filling a gap in the field of cancer immunotherapy, and paving the way to translate our pipeline into human therapeutic approach.
PXD027875	35314194	Mycobacterium tuberculosis encodes a YhhN family membrane protein with lysoplasmalogenase activity that protects against toxic host lysolipids. 	Mycobacterium tuberculosis encodes a YhhN family membrane protein with lysoplasmalogenase activity that protects against toxic effects of lysolipids	Mycobacterium smegmatis, Mycobacterium tuberculosis Rv1401 gene, Phospholipase A, YhhN protein, cell injury and protection, cell-wall-deficient (CWD), lysophospholipids, lysoplasmalogen, lysoplasmalogenase, macrophage, spheroplasts	The pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M.tb) resides in human macrophages, wherein it exploits host lipids for survival. However, little is known about the interaction between M.tb and macrophage plasmalogens, a subclass of glycerophospholipids with a vinyl ether bond at the sn-1 position of the glycerol backbone. Lysoplasmalogens, produced from plasmalogens by hydrolysis at the sn-2 carbon by phospholipase A2, are potentially toxic but can be broken down by host lysoplasmalogenase, an integral membrane protein of the YhhN family that hydrolyzes the vinyl ether bond to release a fatty aldehyde and glycerophospho-ethanolamine or glycerophospho-choline. Curiously, M.tb encodes its own YhhN protein (MtbYhhN), despite having no endogenous plasmalogens. To understand the purpose of this protein, the gene for MtbYhhN (Rv1401) was cloned and expressed in Mycobacterium smegmatis (M.smeg). We found the partially purified protein exhibited abundant lysoplasmalogenase activity specific for lysoplasmenylethanolamine or lysoplasmenylcholine (pLPC) (Vmax~15.5 mumol/min/mg; Km~83 muM). Based on cell density, we determined that lysoplasmenylethanolamine, pLPC, lysophosphatidylcholine, and lysophosphatidylethanolamine were not toxic to M.smeg cells, but pLPC and LPC were highly toxic to M.smeg spheroplasts, which are cell wall-deficient mycobacterial forms. Importantly, spheroplasts prepared from M.smeg cells overexpressing MtbYhhN were protected from membrane disruption/lysis by pLPC, which was rapidly depleted from the media. Finally, we found that overexpression of full-length MtbYhhN in M.smeg increased its survival within human macrophages by 2.6-fold compared to vector controls. These data support the hypothesis that MtbYhhN protein confers a growth advantage for mycobacteria in macrophages by cleaving toxic host pLPC into potentially energy-producing products.
PXD027010	35314681	RUFY3 links Arl8b and JIP4-Dynein complex to regulate lysosome size and positioning. 	RUFY3 links Arl8b and JIP4-Dynein complex to regulate lysosome size and positioning	Arl8b, Dynein, Lysosome, Microtubule, Small GTPase	The bidirectional movement of lysosomes on microtubule tracks regulates their whole-cell spatial arrangement. Arl8b, a small GTP-binding (G) protein, promotes lysosome anterograde trafficking mediated by kinesin-1. Herein, we report an Arl8b effector, RUFY3, which regulates the retrograde transport of lysosomes. We show that RUFY3 interacts with the JIP4-dynein-dynactin complex and facilitates Arl8b association with the retrograde motor complex. Accordingly, RUFY3 knockdown disrupts the positioning of Arl8b-positive endosomes and reduces Arl8b colocalization with Rab7-marked late endosomal compartments. Moreover, we find that RUFY3 regulates nutrient-dependent lysosome distribution, although autophagosome-lysosome fusion and autophagic cargo degradation are not impaired upon RUFY3 depletion. Interestingly, lysosome size is significantly reduced in RUFY3 depleted cells, which could be rescued by inhibition of the lysosome reformation regulatory factor PIKFYVE. These findings suggest a model in which the perinuclear cloud arrangement of lysosomes regulates both the positioning and size of these proteolytic compartments.
PXD027396	35314687	Siwi cooperates with Par-1 kinase to resolve the autoinhibitory effect of Papi for Siwi-piRISC biogenesis. 	Papi interacting proteins in mitochondrial fraction of BmN4 cells	BmN4, Papi	Bombyx Papi acts as a scaffold for Siwi-piRISC biogenesis on the mitochondrial surface. Papi binds first to Siwi via the Tudor domain and subsequently to piRNA precursors loaded onto Siwi via the K-homology (KH) domains. This second action depends on phosphorylation of Papi. However, the underlying mechanism remains unknown. Here, we show that Siwi targets Par-1 kinase to Papi to phosphorylate Ser547 in the auxiliary domain. This modification enhances the ability of Papi to bind Siwi-bound piRNA precursors via the KH domains. The Papi S547A mutant bound to Siwi, but evaded phosphorylation by Par-1, abrogating Siwi-piRISC biogenesis. A Papi mutant that lacked the Tudor and auxiliary domains escaped coordinated regulation by Siwi and Par-1 and bound RNAs autonomously. Another Papi mutant that lacked the auxiliary domain bound Siwi but did not bind piRNA precursors. A sophisticated mechanism by which Siwi cooperates with Par-1 kinase to promote Siwi-piRISC biogenesis was uncovered.
PXD029911	35316604	Insights into the Differential Preservation of Bone Proteomes in Inhumed and Entombed Cadavers from Italian Forensic Caseworks. 	Insights on the Differential Preservation of Bone Proteomes in Inhumated and Entombed Cadavers from Italian Forensic Caseworks	Age-at-death, Bone, Burial environment, Forensics, Post-Translational Protein Modifications, Post-mortem interval	Bone is a hard biological tissue and a precious reservoir of information in forensic investigations as it retains key biomolecules commonly used for identification purposes. Bone proteins have recently attracted significant interest for their potential in estimating post-mortem interval (PMI) and age at death (AAD). However, the preservation of such proteins is highly dependent on intrinsic and extrinsic factors that can hinder the potential application of molecular techniques to forensic sciences. The present study aims at investigating the effects that two commonly used types of burial practices (entombment and inhumation) have on bone protein survival. The sample consists of 14 exhumed individuals from cemeteries in Southern Italy with different AADs (29-85 years) and PMIs (1-37 years). LC-MS/MS analyses show that 16 proteins are better preserved under the entombed conditions and 4 proteins are better preserved under the inhumed conditions, whereas no clear differences are detected for post-translational protein modifications. Furthermore, several potential "stable" protein markers (i.e., proteins not affected by the burial environment) are identified for PMI and AAD estimation. Overall, these results show that the two burial environments play a role in the differential preservation of noncollagenous proteins, confirming the potential of LC-MS/MS-based proteomics in forensic sciences.
PXD028167	35318320	S6K1-mediated phosphorylation of PDK1 impairs AKT kinase activity and oncogenic functions. 	S6K1-mediated phosphorylation of PDK1 impairs AKT kinase activity and oncogenic functions	PDK1, S6K	Functioning as a master kinase, 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDK1) plays a fundamental role in phosphorylating and activating protein kinases A, B and C (AGC) family kinases, including AKT. However, upstream regulation of PDK1 remains largely elusive. Here we report that ribosomal protein S6 kinase beta 1 (S6K1), a member of AGC kinases and downstream target of mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1), directly phosphorylates PDK1 at its pleckstrin homology (PH) domain, and impairs PDK1 interaction with and activation of AKT. Mechanistically, S6K1-mediated phosphorylation of PDK1 augments its interaction with 14-3-3 adaptor protein and homo-dimerization, subsequently dissociating PDK1 from phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5 triphosphate (PIP3) and retarding its interaction with AKT. Pathologically, tumor patient-associated PDK1 mutations, either attenuating S6K1-mediated PDK1 phosphorylation or impairing PDK1 interaction with 14-3-3, result in elevated AKT kinase activity and oncogenic functions. Taken together, our findings not only unravel a delicate feedback regulation of AKT signaling via S6K1-mediated PDK1 phosphorylation, but also highlight the potential strategy to combat mutant PDK1-driven cancers.
PXD028142	35320039	KCNQ2 and KCNQ5 form heteromeric channels independent of KCNQ3. 	KCNQ2 and KCNQ5 can form a channel complex in the brain independent of KCNQ3 channels	KCNQ2, KCNQ3, KCNQ5, autism spectrum disorders, channelopathy, co-immunoprecipitation, epilepsy, neurodevelopmental disorders	KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 channels are associated with multiple neurodevelopmental disorders and are also therapeutic targets for neurological and neuropsychiatric diseases. For more than two decades, it has been thought that most KCNQ channels in the brain are either KCNQ2/3 or KCNQ3/5 heteromers. Here, we investigated the potential heteromeric compositions of KCNQ2-containing channels. We applied split-intein protein trans-splicing to form KCNQ2/5 tandems and coexpressed these with and without KCNQ3. Unexpectedly, we found that KCNQ2/5 tandems form functional channels independent of KCNQ3 in heterologous cells. Using mass spectrometry, we went on to demonstrate that KCNQ2 associates with KCNQ5 in native channels in the brain, even in the absence of KCNQ3. Additionally, our functional heterologous expression data are consistent with the formation of KCNQ2/3/5 heteromers. Thus, the composition of KCNQ channels is more diverse than has been previously recognized, necessitating a re-examination of the genotype/phenotype relationship of KCNQ2 pathogenic variants.
PXD026101	35320709	The mTOR chromatin-bound interactome in prostate cancer. 	The Prostate Cancer mTOR Chromatin-Bound Interactome	22Rv1, ChIP-MS, DU145, LNCaP, PC3, Prostate cancer, RIME, RWPE-1, mTOR, normal prostate	A growing number of studies support a direct role for nuclear mTOR in gene regulation and chromatin structure. Still, the scarcity of known chromatin-bound mTOR partners limits our understanding of how nuclear mTOR controls transcription. Herein, comprehensive mapping of the mTOR chromatin-bound interactome in both androgen-dependent and -independent cellular models of prostate cancer (PCa) identifies a conserved 67-protein interaction network enriched for chromatin modifiers, transcription factors, and SUMOylation machinery. SUMO2/3 and nuclear pore protein NUP210 are among the strongest interactors, while the androgen receptor (AR) is the dominant androgen-inducible mTOR partner. Further investigation reveals that NUP210 facilitates mTOR nuclear trafficking, that mTOR and AR form a functional transcriptional module with the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD) complex, and that androgens specify mTOR-SUMO2/3 promoter-enhancer association. This work identifies a vast network of mTOR-associated nuclear complexes advocating innovative molecular strategies to modulate mTOR-dependent gene regulation with conceivable implications for PCa and other diseases.
PXD031563	35320730	Golgin Imh1 and GARP complex cooperate to restore the impaired SNARE recycling transport induced by ER stress. 	Investigating the upstream signaling of Imh1 phosphorylation under ER stress in yeast	ER stress, GTPase Arl1, Imh1, Ire1, SNARE transport, phosphorylation	The accumulation of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) induces the unfolded protein response (UPR), which acts through various mechanisms to reduce ER stress. While the UPR has been well studied for its effects on the ER, its impact on the Golgi is less understood. The Golgi complex receives transport vesicles from the endosome through two types of tethering factors: long coiled-coil golgin and the multisubunit Golgi-associated retrograde protein (GARP) complex. Here, we report that ER stress increases the phosphorylation of golgin Imh1 to maintain the GARP-mediated recycling of the SNAREs Snc1 and Tlg1. We also identify a specific function of the Golgi affected by ER stress and elucidate a homeostatic response to restore this function, which involves both an Ire1-dependent and a MAP kinase Slt2/ERK2-dependent mechanism. Furthermore, our findings advance a general understanding of how two different types of tethers act cooperatively to mediate a transport pathway.
PXD021019	35321351	Adipose Dysfunction in Adulthood Insulin Resistance of Low-Birth Weight Mice: A Proteomics Study. 	Proteomics analysis of white adipose tissue in high fat diet fed mice	high fat diet, insulin resistance, multi-tissue analysis	Purpose: To investigate changes in the protein expression profile of white adipose tissue in low-birth weight (LBW) mice with high-fat diets using tandem mass tag (TMT) and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). Methods: Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) mice were used to establish an LBW model using malnutrition during pregnancy. Male pups were randomly selected from LBW and normal-birth weight (NBW) offspring, then all given a high-fat diet. Blood glucose, serum insulin, total cholesterol (TC) and triglyceride (TG) levels were measured. The weight ratio of liver, muscle, and adiposity index were calculated. Hematoxylin and eosin staining was used to visualize adipose tissue morphology. Oil red O staining of liver and TG content of muscle were used to determine ectopic lipid deposition. TMT combined with LC-MS/MS was used to analyze protein expression in white adipose tissue. PRM and Western blot were used to verify the expression of CD36, SCD1, PCK1 and PPARgamma. Results: Compared with NBW mice, fasting blood glucose, insulin and HOMA-IR significantly increased in LBW mice, indicating insulin resistance and impaired glucose regulation; TC, TG, adipocyte size, and adiposity index were increased in LBW mice, suggesting obesity and disorder of lipid metabolism. We observed ectopic lipid deposition in liver and muscle. There were 996 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the LBW/NBW groups. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) was a relatively important signaling pathway regulating metabolic process in functional enrichment analysis of DEPs. Up-regulated expression of CD36, SCD1, and PCK1 in the adipose tissue of LBW mice was observed through PPAR pathways cluster analysis. And PRM and Western blot assay validated the proteomics findings. Conclusion: When exposed to high-fat diets, LBW mice exhibited insulin resistance and disorder of lipid metabolism compared with NBW mice. The expression of PPARgamma was elevated, as well as upstream CD36, downstream SCD1 and PCK1 of the PPARgamma in the adipose tissue of LBW mice. It was suggested that the activation in CD36/PPARgamma/SCD1 and CD36/PPARgamma/PCK1 pathways may induce adipose dysfunction, thereby increasing susceptibility to insulin resistance.
PXD026681	35322011	Deficiency of N-glycanase 1 perturbs neurogenesis and cerebral development modeled by human organoids. 	NGLY1 deficiency perturbs cerebral development by affecting stress tolerability and neural stem cell signaling during neurogenesis	NGLY1, cerebral organoids, congenital deglycosylation disorder, human pluripotent stem cells, neurodevelopment, neuroprogenitors, secretory factors, stress responses	Mutations in N-glycanase 1 (NGLY1), which deglycosylates misfolded glycoproteins for degradation, can cause NGLY1 deficiency in patients and their abnormal fetal development in multiple organs, including microcephaly and other neurological disorders. Using cerebral organoids (COs) developed from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs), we investigate how NGLY1 dysfunction disturbs early brain development. While NGLY1 loss had limited impact on the undifferentiated cells, COs developed from NGLY1-deficient hESCs showed defective formation of SATB2-positive upper-layer neurons, and attenuation of STAT3 and HES1 signaling critical for sustaining radial glia. Bulk and single-cell transcriptomic analysis revealed premature neuronal differentiation accompanied by downregulation of secreted and transcription factors, including TTR, IGFBP2, and ID4 in NGLY1-deficient COs. NGLY1 malfunction also dysregulated ID4 and enhanced neuronal differentiation in CO transplants developed in vivo. NGLY1-deficient CO cells were more vulnerable to multiple stressors; treating the deficient cells with recombinant TTR reduced their susceptibility to stress from proteasome inactivation, likely through LRP2-mediated activation of MAPK signaling. Expressing NGLY1 led to IGFBP2 and ID4 upregulation in CO cells developed from NGLY1-deficiency patient's hiPSCs. In addition, treatment with recombinant IGFBP2 enhanced ID4 expression, STAT3 signaling, and proliferation of NGLY1-deficient CO cells. Overall, our discoveries suggest that dysregulation of stress responses and neural precursor differentiation underlies the brain abnormalities observed in NGLY1-deficient individuals.
PXD031413	35322079	Lung lymphatic thrombosis and dysfunction caused by cigarette smoke exposure precedes emphysema in mice. 	Label free DIA proteomic analysis of thoracic lymph from cigarette smoke (CS)-exposed mice	DDA spectral libraries, DIA proteomics and peptidomics of mouse lymph, label free proteomics	The lymphatic vasculature is critical for lung function, but defects in lymphatic function in the pathogenesis of lung disease is understudied. In mice, lymphatic dysfunction alone is sufficient to cause lung injury that resembles human emphysema. Whether lymphatic function is disrupted in cigarette smoke (CS)-induced emphysema is unknown. In this study, we investigated the effect of CS on lung lymphatic function. Analysis of human lung tissue revealed significant lung lymphatic thrombosis in patients with emphysema compared to control smokers that increased with disease severity. In a mouse model, CS exposure led to lung lymphatic thrombosis, decreased lymphatic drainage, and impaired leukocyte trafficking that all preceded the development of emphysema. Proteomic analysis demonstrated an increased abundance of coagulation factors in the lymph draining from the lungs of CS-exposed mice compared to control mice. In addition, in vitro assays demonstrated a direct effect of CS on lymphatic endothelial cell integrity. These data show that CS exposure results in lung lymphatic dysfunction and a shift in thoracic lymph towards a prothrombic state. Furthermore, our data suggest that lymphatic dysfunction is due to effects of CS on the lymphatic vasculature that precede emphysema. These studies demonstrate a novel component of CS-induced lung injury that occurs early in the pathogenesis of emphysema.
PXD029460	35322093	Altered proteome in translation initiation fidelity defective eIF5(G31R) mutant causes oxidative stress and DNA damage. 	Altered proteome in translationinitiation fidelity defective eIF5G31R mutant causes oxidative stress and DNA damage	Sui¯ phenotype, Translation initiation, eIF5, iTRAQ	The recognition of the AUG start codon and selection of an open reading frame (ORF) is fundamental to protein biosynthesis. Defect in the fidelity of start codon selection adversely affect proteome and have a pleiotropic effect on cellular function. Using proteomic techniques, we identified differential protein abundance in the translation initiation fidelity defective eIF5(G31R) mutant that initiates translation using UUG codon in addition to the AUG start codon. Consistently, the eIF5(G31R) mutant altered proteome involved in protein catabolism, nucleotide biosynthesis, lipid biosynthesis, carbohydrate metabolism, oxidation-reduction pathway, autophagy and re-programs the cellular pathways. The utilization of the upstream UUG codons by the eIF5(G31R) mutation caused downregulation of uridylate kinase expression, sensitivity to hydroxyurea, and DNA damage. The eIF5(G31R) mutant cells showed lower glutathione levels, high ROS activity, and sensitivity to H2O2.
PXD028292	35322197	Discoidin Domain Receptor 2 orchestrates melanoma resistance combining phenotype switching and proliferation. 	Proteomic analysis of melanoma resistant cells transfected with siRNA targeting DDR2 or treated with DDR2 inhibitor or Dasatinib	Melanoma, discoidin domain receptors, quantitative proteome, resistance	Combined therapy with anti-BRAF plus anti-MEK is currently used as first-line treatment of patients with metastatic melanomas harboring the somatic BRAF V600E mutation. However, the main issue with targeted therapy is the acquisition of tumor cell resistance. In a majority of resistant melanoma cells, the resistant process consists in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). This process called phenotype switching makes melanoma cells more invasive. Its signature is characterized by MITF low, AXL high, and actin cytoskeleton reorganization through RhoA activation. In parallel of this phenotype switching phase, the resistant cells exhibit an anarchic cell proliferation due to hyper-activation of the MAP kinase pathway. We show that a majority of human melanoma overexpress discoidin domain receptor 2 (DDR2) after treatment. The same result was found in resistant cell lines presenting phenotype switching compared to the corresponding sensitive cell lines. We demonstrate that DDR2 inhibition induces a decrease in AXL expression and reduces stress fiber formation in resistant melanoma cell lines. In this phenotype switching context, we report that DDR2 control cell and tumor proliferation through the MAP kinase pathway in resistant cells in vitro and in vivo. Therefore, inhibition of DDR2 could be a new and promising strategy for countering this resistance mechanism.
PXD027186	35322810	Proteasomal turnover of the RhoGAP tumor suppressor DLC1 is regulated by HECTD1 and USP7. 	GFP-DLC1 interactome in MCF7 breast cancer cells	DLC1, MCF7, RhoGAP, breast cancer	The Rho GTPase activating protein Deleted in Liver Cancer 1 (DLC1) is frequently downregulated through genetic and epigenetic mechanisms in various malignancies, leading to aberrant Rho GTPase signaling and thus facilitating cancer progression. Here we show that in breast cancer cells, dysregulation of DLC1 expression occurs at the protein level through rapid degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Using mass spectrometry, we identify two novel DLC1 interaction partners, the ubiquitin-ligase HECTD1 and the deubiquitinating enzyme ubiquitin-specific-processing protease 7 (USP7). While DLC1 protein expression was rapidly downregulated upon pharmacological inhibition of USP7, siRNA-mediated knockdown of HECTD1 increased DLC1 protein levels and impaired its degradation. Immunofluorescence microscopy analyses revealed that the modulation of HECTD1 levels and USP7 activity altered DLC1 abundance at focal adhesions, its primary site of action. Thus, we propose opposing regulatory mechanisms of DLC1 protein homeostasis by USP7 and HECTD1, which could open up strategies to counteract downregulation and restore DLC1 expression in cancer.
PXD030600	35323464	Identification and Characterization of Three Chitinases with Potential in Direct Conversion of Crystalline Chitin into N,N'-diacetylchitobiose. 	Secretome Analysis of Pseudoalteromonas flavipulchra DSM 14401	Pseudoalteromonas flavipulchra, Secretome, chitin degradation	Chitooligosaccharides (COSs) have been widely used in agriculture, medicine, cosmetics, and foods, which are commonly prepared from chitin with chitinases. So far, while most COSs are prepared from colloidal chitin, chitinases used in preparing COSs directly from natural crystalline chitin are less reported. Here, we characterize three chitinases, which were identified from the marine bacterium Pseudoalteromonas flavipulchra DSM 14401(T), with an ability to degrade crystalline chitin into (GlcNAc)2 (N,N'-diacetylchitobiose). Strain DSM 14401 can degrade the crystalline alpha-chitin in the medium to provide nutrients for growth. Genome and secretome analyses indicate that this strain secretes six chitinolytic enzymes, among which chitinases Chia4287, Chib0431, and Chib0434 have higher abundance than the others, suggesting their importance in crystalline alpha-chitin degradation. These three chitinases were heterologously expressed, purified, and characterized. They are all active on crystalline alpha-chitin, with temperature optima of 45-50 degreesC and pH optima of 7.0-7.5. They are all stable at 40 degreesC and in the pH range of 5.0-11.0. Moreover, they all have excellent salt tolerance, retaining more than 92% activity after incubation in 5 M NaCl for 10 h at 4 degreesC. When acting on crystalline alpha-chitin, the main products of the three chitinases are all (GlcNAc)2, which suggests that chitinases Chia4287, Chib0431, and Chib0434 likely have potential in direct conversion of crystalline chitin into (GlcNAc)2.
PXD029436	35324665	The Preclinical Evaluation of a Second-Generation Antivenom for Treating Snake Envenoming in India. 	The preclinical evaluation of a second-generation antivenom for treating snake envenoming in India	Antivenoms, second-generation antivenoms, snakebite	Snake envenoming afflicts the Indian subcontinent with the highest rates of mortality (47,000) and morbidity globally. The only effective treatment for snakebites is the administration of antivenom, which is produced by the hyperimmunisation of equines. Commercial Indian antivenoms, however, have been shown to exhibit a poor preclinical performance in neutralising venom, as a result of inter- and intrapopulation snake venom variation. Additionally, their poor dose effectiveness necessitates the administration of larger volumes of antivenom for treatment, leading to several harmful side effects in snakebite victims, including serum sickness and fatal anaphylaxis. In this study, we employed chromatographic purification to enhance the dose efficacy of commercial Indian antivenoms. The efficacy of this 'second-generation' antivenom was comparatively evaluated against six other marketed antivenoms using a number of in vitro and in vivo preclinical assays, which revealed its superior venom recognition capability. Enhanced purity also resulted in significant improvements in dose effectiveness, as the 'second-generation' antivenom exhibited a 3 to 4.5 times increased venom neutralisation potential. Furthermore, preclinical assays revealed the increased effectiveness of the 'second-generation' antivenom in countering morbid effects inflicted by the 'big four' Indian snakes. Thus, we demonstrate the role of simpler purification steps in significantly enhancing the effectiveness of snakebite therapy in regions that are most affected by snakebites.
PXD031749	35325613	Lipid-mediated phase separation of AGO proteins on the ER controls nascent-peptide ubiquitination. 	Lipid mediated-phase separation of AGO proteins on the ER controls nascent peptide ubiquitination	AGO1, Drosophila, ER, Lipidbinding, Nascent peptide	AGO/miRNA-mediated gene silencing and ubiquitin-mediated protein quality control represent two fundamental mechanisms that control proper gene expression. Here, we unexpectedly discover that fly and human AGO proteins, which are key components in the miRNA pathway, undergo lipid-mediated phase separation and condense into RNP granules on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane to control protein production. Phase separation on the ER is mediated by electrostatic interactions between a conserved lipid-binding motif within the AGOs and the lipid PI(4,5)P2. The ER-localized AGO condensates recruit the E3 ubiquitin ligase Ltn1 to catalyze nascent-peptide ubiquitination and coordinate with the VCP-Ufd1-Npl4 complex to process unwanted protein products for proteasomal degradation. Collectively, our study provides insight into the understanding of post-transcription-translation coupling controlled by AGOs via lipid-mediated phase separation.
PXD032216	35326705	CDK6 Degradation Is Counteracted by p16(INK4A) and p18(INK4C) in AML. 	CDK6 degradation is counteracted by p16INK4A and p18INK4C in AML	AML, CDK6, Cdkn2a, Cdkn2c, Degrader, INK4, p16, p18	Cyclin-dependent kinase 6 (CDK6) represents a novel therapeutic target for the treatment of certain subtypes of acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). CDK4/6 kinase inhibitors have been widely studied in many cancer types and their effects may be limited by primary and secondary resistance mechanisms. CDK4/6 degraders, which eliminate kinase-dependent and kinase-independent effects, have been suggested as an alternative therapeutic option. We show that the efficacy of the CDK6-specific protein degrader BSJ-03-123 varies among AML subtypes and depends on the low expression of the INK4 proteins p16(INK4A) and p18(INK4C). INK4 protein levels are significantly elevated in KMT2A-MLLT3+ cells compared to RUNX1-RUNX1T1+ cells, contributing to the different CDK6 degradation efficacy. We demonstrate that CDK6 complexes containing p16(INK4A) or p18(INK4C) are protected from BSJ-mediated degradation and that INK4 levels define the proliferative response to CDK6 degradation. These findings define INK4 proteins as predictive markers for CDK6 degradation-targeted therapies in AML.
PXD032307	35327281	Using RSM for Optimum of Optimum Production of Peptides from Edible Bird's Nest By-Product and Characterization of Its Antioxidant's Properties. 	Using RSM for Optimum of Optimum Production of Peptides from Edible Bird's Nest By-Product and Characterization of Its Antioxidant's Properties	PC12 cells, antioxidant peptides, edible bird's nest by-products, radical scavenging ability, response surface methodology	In this research, the neutrase hydrolysis conditions of edible bird's nest (EBN) by-products were optimized by response surface methodology (RSM). Antioxidant peptides were then isolated from the EBN by-products by ultrafiltration and chromatography taking the DPPH radical scavenging ability as an indicator. The antioxidant activity of the purified peptides was estimated by radical scavenging ability and sodium nitroprusside (SNP)-induced damage model in PC12 cells. When the enzyme concentration was10 kU/g-hydrolysis temperature was 45 degreesC, and hydrolysis time was 10.30 h, the degree of hydrolysis (DH) of EBN by-product hydrolysate (EBNH) was the highest. The purified peptide exerted strong scavenging ability with EC50 values of 0.51, 1.31, and 0.65 mg/mL for DDPH, ABTS, and O2(-) radicals, respectively. In addition, the purified peptides could significantly reduce the SNP-induced oxidative damage of PC12 cells, and twelve peptides that were rich in leucine (Leu), valine (Val), and lysine (Lys) were identified by LC-MS/MS. These results suggested that EBN by-products have potential as new materials for natural antioxidant peptides.
PXD021852	35327371	The Proteome of Antibody-Mediated Rejection: From Glomerulitis to Transplant Glomerulopathy. 	Identification of new immunomarkers of active antibody-mediated rejection through glomerular proteome analysis in kidney transplantation	antibody-mediated rejection, biomarker, glomerulus, kidney transplantation	Antibody-mediated rejection (ABMR) is the leading cause of allograft failure in kidney transplantation. Its histological hallmark is represented by lesions of glomerulitis i.e., inflammatory cells within glomeruli. Current therapies for ABMR fail to prevent chronic allograft damage i.e., transplant glomerulopathy, leading to allograft loss. We used laser microdissection of glomeruli from formalin-fixed allograft biopsies combined with mass spectrometry-based proteomics to describe the proteome modification of 11 active and 10 chronic active ABMR cases compared to 8 stable graft controls. Of 1335 detected proteins, 77 were deregulated in glomerulitis compared to stable grafts, particularly involved in cellular stress mediated by interferons type I and II, leukocyte activation and microcirculation remodeling. Three proteins extracted from this protein profile, TYMP, WARS1 and GBP1, showed a consistent overexpression by immunohistochemistry in glomerular endothelial cells that may represent relevant markers of endothelial stress during active ABMR. In transplant glomerulopathy, 137 proteins were deregulated, which favor a complement-mediated mechanism, wound healing processes through coagulation activation and ultimately a remodeling of the glomerular extracellular matrix, as observed by light microscopy. This study brings novel information on glomerular proteomics of ABMR in kidney transplantation, and highlights potential targets of diagnostic and therapeutic interest.
PXD030516	35328622	Inducible Systemic Gcn1 Deletion in Mice Leads to Transient Body Weight Loss upon Tamoxifen Treatment Associated with Decrease of Fat and Liver Glycogen Storage. 	Proteome analysis of GCN1 CKO mouse inguinal white adipose tissue (iWAT)	GCN1, SWATH, iWAT, tamoxifen	GCN1 is an evolutionarily-conserved ribosome-binding protein that mediates the amino acid starvation response as well as the ribotoxic stress response. We previously demonstrated that Gcn1 mutant mice lacking the GCN2-binding domain suffer from growth retardation and postnatal lethality via GCN2-independent mechanisms, while Gcn1-null mice die early in embryonic development. In this study, we explored the role of GCN1 in adult mice by generating tamoxifen-inducible conditional knockout (CKO) mice. Unexpectedly, the Gcn1 CKO mice showed body weight loss during tamoxifen treatment, which gradually recovered following its cessation. They also showed decreases in liver weight, hepatic glycogen and lipid contents, blood glucose and non-esterified fatty acids, and visceral white adipose tissue weight with no changes in food intake and viability. A decrease of serum VLDL suggested that hepatic lipid supply to the peripheral tissues was primarily impaired. Liver proteomic analysis revealed the downregulation of mitochondrial beta-oxidation that accompanied increases of peroxisomal beta-oxidation and aerobic glucose catabolism that maintain ATP levels. These findings show the involvement of GCN1 in hepatic lipid metabolism during tamoxifen treatment in adult mice.
PXD031848	35328685	ABPP-HT*-Deep Meets Fast for Activity-Based Profiling of Deubiquitylating Enzymes Using Advanced DIA Mass Spectrometry Methods. 	ABPP-HT* - Deep meets fast for activity-based profiling of deubiquitylating enzymes using advanced DIA mass spectrometry methodsABPP-HT* - Deep meets fast for activity-based profiling of deubiquitylating enzymes using advanced DIA mass spectrometry method	activitomics, activity-based probes, chemical biology, data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA), deubiquitylating enzymes, drug discovery, ubiquitin	Activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) uses a combination of activity-based chemical probes with mass spectrometry (MS) to selectively characterise a particular enzyme or enzyme class. ABPP has proven invaluable for profiling enzymatic inhibitors in drug discovery. When applied to cell extracts and cells, challenging the ABP-enzyme complex formation with a small molecule can simultaneously inform on potency, selectivity, reversibility/binding affinity, permeability, and stability. ABPP can also be applied to pharmacodynamic studies to inform on cellular target engagement within specific organs when applied to in vivo models. Recently, we established separate high depth and high throughput ABPP (ABPP-HT) protocols for the profiling of deubiquitylating enzymes (DUBs). However, the combination of the two, deep and fast, in one method has been elusive. To further increase the sensitivity of the current ABPP-HT workflow, we implemented state-of-the-art data-independent acquisition (DIA) and data-dependent acquisition (DDA) MS analysis tools. Hereby, we describe an improved methodology, ABPP-HT* (enhanced high-throughput-compatible activity-based protein profiling) that in combination with DIA MS methods, allowed for the consistent profiling of 35-40 DUBs and provided a reduced number of missing values, whilst maintaining a throughput of 100 samples per day.
PXD030306	35328696	Chitosan Hydrogel Supplemented with Metformin Promotes Neuron-like Cell Differentiation of Gingival Mesenchymal Stem Cells. 	The effect of metformin on the neural differentiation of gingival mesenchymal stem cells in three-dimensional culture	3D, GMSCs, MET	Human gingival mesenchymal stem cells (GMSCs) are derived from migratory neural crest stem cells and have the potential to differentiate into neurons. Metformin can inhibit stem-cell aging and promotes the regeneration and development of neurons. In this study, we investigated the potential of metformin as an enhancer on neuronal differentiation of GMSCs in the growth environment of chitosan hydrogel. The crosslinked chitosan/beta-glycerophosphate hydrogel can form a perforated microporous structure that is suitable for cell growth and channels to transport water and macromolecules. GMSCs have powerful osteogenic, adipogenic and chondrogenic abilities in the induction medium supplemented with metformin. After induction in an induction medium supplemented with metformin, Western blot and immunofluorescence results showed that GMSCs differentiated into neuron-like cells with a significantly enhanced expression of neuro-related markers, including Nestin (NES) and beta-Tubulin (TUJ1). Proteomics was used to construct protein profiles in neural differentiation, and the results showed that chitosan hydrogels containing metformin promoted the upregulation of neural regeneration-related proteins, including ATP5F1, ATP5J, NADH dehydrogenase (ubiquinone) Fe-S protein 3 (NDUFS3), and Glutamate Dehydrogenase 1 (GLUD1). Our results help to promote the clinical application of stem-cell neural regeneration.
PXD029967	35328711	SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein and Mouse Coronavirus Inhibit Biofilm Formation by Streptococcus pneumoniae and Staphylococcus aureus. 	SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein and Murine Hepatitis Virus Inhib-its S. pneumoniae and S. aureus Biofilms	SARS-CoV-2, Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, biofilm, spike protein	The presence of co-infections or superinfections with bacterial pathogens in COVID-19 patients is associated with poor outcomes, including increased morbidity and mortality. We hypothesized that SARS-CoV-2 and its components interact with the biofilms generated by commensal bacteria, which may contribute to co-infections. This study employed crystal violet staining and particle-tracking microrheology to characterize the formation of biofilms by Streptococcus pneumoniae and Staphylococcus aureus that commonly cause secondary bacterial pneumonia. Microrheology analyses suggested that these biofilms were inhomogeneous soft solids, consistent with their dynamic characteristics. Biofilm formation by both bacteria was significantly inhibited by co-incubation with recombinant SARS-CoV-2 spike S1 subunit and both S1 + S2 subunits, but not with S2 extracellular domain nor nucleocapsid protein. Addition of spike S1 and S2 antibodies to spike protein could partially restore bacterial biofilm production. Furthermore, biofilm formation in vitro was also compromised by live murine hepatitis virus, a related beta-coronavirus. Supporting data from LC-MS-based proteomics of spike-biofilm interactions revealed differential expression of proteins involved in quorum sensing and biofilm maturation, such as the AI-2E family transporter and LuxS, a key enzyme for AI-2 biosynthesis. Our findings suggest that these opportunistic pathogens may egress from biofilms to resume a more virulent planktonic lifestyle during coronavirus infections. The dispersion of pathogens from biofilms may culminate in potentially severe secondary infections with poor prognosis. Further detailed investigations are warranted to establish bacterial biofilms as risk factors for secondary pneumonia in COVID-19 patients.
PXD030764	35328776	Hepatocyte Proteome Alterations Induced by Individual and Combinations of Common Free Fatty Acids. 	Proteome analysis of mixed fatty acid treated hepatocytes	HepG2, NAFLD, myristic acid, oleic acid, palmitic acid	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease is a pathology with a hard-to-detect onset and is estimated to be present in a quarter of the adult human population. To improve our understanding of the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, we treated a human hepatoma cell line model, HepG2, with increasing concentrations of common fatty acids, namely myristic, palmitic and oleic acid. To reproduce more physiologically representative conditions, we also included combinations of these fatty acids and monitored the cellular response with an in-depth proteomics approach and imaging techniques. The two saturated fatty acids initially presented a similar phenotype of a dose-dependent decrease in growth rates and impaired lipid droplet formation. Detailed analysis revealed that the drop in the growth rates was due to delayed cell-cycle progression following myristic acid treatment, whereas palmitic acid led to cellular apoptosis. In contrast, oleic acid, as well as saturated fatty acid mixtures with oleic acid, led to a dose-dependent increase in lipid droplet volume without adverse impacts on cell growth. Comparing the effects of harmful single-fatty-acid treatments and the well-tolerated fatty acid mixes on the cellular proteome, we were able to differentiate between fatty-acid-specific cellular responses and likely common lipotoxic denominators.
PXD028378	35330001	Alteration of Serum Proteome in Levo-Thyroxine-Euthyroid Thyroidectomized Patients. 	Hypothyroidism symptoms in LT4-euthyroid thyroidectomized patients reflect an alteration of the serum proteome	LT4, hypothyroidism, quality of life, reduced FT3	The monotherapy with levo-thyroxine (LT4) is the treatment of choice for patients with hypothyroidism after thyroidectomy. However, many athyreotic LT4-treated patients with thyroid hormones in the physiological range experience hypothyroid-like symptoms, showing post-operative, statistically significant lower FT3 levels with respect to that before total thyroidectomy. Since we hypothesized that the lower plasmatic FT3 levels observed in this subgroup could be associated with tissue hypothyroidism, here we compared, by a preliminary proteomic analysis, eight sera of patients with reduced post-surgical FT3 to eight sera from patients with FT3 levels similar to pre-surgery levels, and six healthy controls. Proteomic analysis highlights a different serum protein profile among the considered conditions. By enrichment analysis, differential proteins are involved in coagulation processes (PLMN-1.61, -1.98 in reduced vs. stable FT3, p < 0.02; A1AT fragmentation), complement system activation (CFAH + 1.83, CFAB + 1.5, C1Qb + 1.6, C1S + 7.79 in reduced vs. stable FT3, p < 0.01) and in lipoprotein particles remodeling (APOAI fragmentation; APOAIV + 2.13, p < 0.003), potentially leading to a pro-inflammatory response. This study suggests that LT4 replacement therapy might restore biochemical euthyroid conditions in thyroidectomized patients, but in some cases without re-establishing body tissue euthyroidism. Since our results, this condition is reflected by the serum protein profile.
PXD020235	35330214	LC-MS/MS-Based Serum Protein Profiling for Identification of Candidate Biomarkers in Pakistani Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients. 	Comparison of Rheumatoid Arthritis Patient and Control Sample Serum Proteomes	Rheumatoid Arthritis, Serum	Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disorder of complex disease etiology. Currently available serological diagnostic markers lack in terms of sensitivity and specificity and thus additional biomarkers are warranted for early disease diagnosis and management. We aimed to screen and compare serum proteome profiles of rheumatoid arthritis serotypes with healthy controls in the Pakistani population for identification of potential disease biomarkers. Serum samples from rheumatoid arthritis patients and healthy controls were enriched for low abundance proteins using ProteoMinerTM columns. Rheumatoid arthritis patients were assigned to one of the four serotypes based on anti-citrullinated peptide antibodies and rheumatoid factor. Serum protein profiles were analyzed via liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The changes in the protein abundances were determined using label-free quantification software ProgenesisQITM followed by pathway analysis. Findings were validated in an independent cohort of patients and healthy controls using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. A total of 213 proteins were identified. Comparative analysis of all groups (false discovery rate < 0.05, >2-fold change, and identified with >=2 unique peptides) identified ten proteins that were differentially expressed between rheumatoid arthritis serotypes and healthy controls including pregnancy zone protein, selenoprotein P, C4b-binding protein beta chain, apolipoprotein M, N-acetylmuramoyl-L-alanine amidase, catalytic chain, oncoprotein-induced transcript 3 protein, Carboxypeptidase N subunit 2, Apolipoprotein C-I and Apolipoprotein C-III. Pathway analysis predicted inhibition of liver X receptor/retinoid X receptor activation pathway and production of nitric oxide and reactive oxygen species pathway in macrophages in all serotypes. A catalogue of potential serum biomarkers for rheumatoid arthritis were identified. These biomarkers can be further evaluated in larger cohorts from different populations for their diagnostic and prognostic potential.
PXD030697	35330912	Non-Apoptotic Caspase Activity Preferentially Targets a Novel Consensus Sequence Associated With Cytoskeletal Proteins in the Developing Auditory Brainstem. 	Apoptotic auditory brainstem of E13 chick embryo	Apoptosis, auditory, brainstem, caspase, chick	The auditory brainstem relies on precise circuitry to facilitate sound source localization. In the chick, the development of this specialized circuitry requires non-apoptotic activity of caspase-3, for which we previously identified several hundred proteolytic substrates. Here we tested whether the sequence of the caspase cleavage site differentially encodes proteolytic preference in apoptotic and non-apoptotic contexts. We constructed a consensus sequence for caspase activity in the non-apoptotic chick auditory brainstem comprising the four residues N-terminal to the cleavage site: IX(G/R)Dv where X represents no significant enrichment and v represents the cleavage site. We identified GO terms significantly enriched among caspase substrates containing motifs found in the above consensus sequence. (G/R)Dv was associated with the term "Structural Constituent of Cytoskeleton" (SCoC), suggesting that SCoC proteins may be specifically targeted by caspase activity during non-apoptotic developmental processes. To ascertain whether this consensus sequence was specific to the non-apoptotic auditory brainstem at embryonic day (E) 10, we used protein mass spectrometry of brainstems harvested at a time when auditory brainstem neurons undergo apoptotic cell death (E13). The apoptotic motif VD was significantly enriched among E13 cleavage sites, indicating that motif preference at the P2 subsite had shifted toward the canonical caspase consensus sequence. Additionally, Monte Carlo simulations revealed that only the GD motif was associated with SCoC substrates in the apoptotic auditory brainstem, indicating that GD encodes specificity for SCoC proteins in both non-apoptotic and apoptotic contexts, despite not being preferred in the latter. Finally, to identify candidate human non-apoptotic consensus sequences, we used Monte Carlo analyses to determine motifs and motif pairs associated with SCoC caspase substrates in the Degrabase, a database of cleavage sites in human apoptotic cell lines. We found 11 motifs significantly associated with SCoC proteolysis, including IXXD and GD. We employed a stepwise method to select motif pairs that optimized SCoC specificity for a given coverage of SCoC cleavage events, yielding 11 motif pairs likely to be preferred in SCoC-directed human non-apoptotic caspase consensus sequences. GD + IXXD was among these motif pairs, suggesting a conservation of non-apoptotic consensus sites among vertebrates.
PXD031703	35331737	Enzymatic analysis of WWP2 E3 ubiquitin ligase using protein microarrays identifies autophagy-related substrates. 	Enzymatic Analysis of WWP2 E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Using Protein Microarrays Identifies Autophagy-Related Substrates	Ubiquitination, WWP2, autophagy receptor, protein microarray	WWP2 is a HECT E3 ligase that targets protein Lys residues for ubiquitination and is comprised of an N-terminal C2 domain, four central WW domains, and a C-terminal catalytic HECT domain. The peptide segment between the middle WW domains, the 2,3-linker, is known to autoinhibit the catalytic domain, and this autoinhibition can be relieved by phosphorylation at Tyr369. Several protein substrates of WWP2 have been identified, including the tumor suppressor lipid phosphatase PTEN, but the full substrate landscape and biological functions of WWP2 remain to be elucidated. Here, we used protein microarray technology and the activated enzyme phosphomimetic mutant WWP2(Y369E) to identify potential WWP2 substrates. We identified 31 substrate hits for WWP2(Y369E) using protein microarrays, of which three were known autophagy receptors (NDP52, OPTN, and SQSTM1). These three hits were validated with in vitro and cell-based transfection assays and the Lys ubiquitination sites on these proteins were mapped by mass spectrometry. Among the mapped ubiquitin sites on these autophagy receptors, many had been previously identified in the endogenous proteins. Finally, we observed that WWP2 KO SH-SH5Y neuroblastoma cells using CRISPR-Cas9 showed a defect in mitophagy, which could be rescued by WWP2(Y369E) transfection. These studies suggest that WWP2-mediated ubiquitination of the autophagy receptors NDP52, OPTN, and SQSTM1 may positively contribute to the regulation of autophagy.
PXD031327	35331916	Fe(3+)-NTA magnetic beads as an alternative to spin column-based phosphopeptide enrichment. 	Fe3+-NTA magnetic beads as an alternative to spin column-based phosphopeptide enrichment	IMAC, automation, phosphopeptide enrichment, phosphoproteome	Protein phosphorylation is a central mechanism of cellular signal transduction in living organisms. Phosphoproteomic studies systematically catalogue and characterize alterations in phosphorylation states across multiple cellular conditions and are often incorporated into global proteomics experiments. Previously, we found that spin column-based Fe(3+)-NTA enrichment integrated well with our workflow but remained a bottleneck for methods that require higher throughput or a scale that is beyond the capacity of these columns. Here, we compare our well-established spin column-based enrichment strategy with one encompassing magnetic beads. Our data show little difference when using either method in terms of the number of identified phosphopeptides as well as their physicochemical properties. In all, we illustrate how the potentially scalable and automation-friendly magnetic Fe(3+)-NTA beads can seamlessly substitute spin column-based Fe(3+)-NTA agarose beads for global phosphoproteome profiling. SIGNIFICANCE: Protein phosphorylation plays a key role in regulating a multitude of biological processes and can lead to insights into disease pathogenesis. Methodologies which can efficiently enrich phosphopeptides in a scalable and high-throughput manner are essential for profiling dynamic phosphoproteomes. Here we compare two phosphopeptide enrichment workflows, a well-established spin column-based strategy with agarose Fe(3+)-NTA beads and a strategy using magnetic Fe(3+)-NTA beads. Our data suggest that the scalable and automation-friendly magnetic bead-based workflow is an equivalent, but more flexible, enrichment strategy for phosphoproteome profiling experiments.
PXD025639	35332167	Sulforaphane suppresses metastasis of triple-negative breast cancer cells by targeting the RAF/MEK/ERK pathway. 	Sulforaphane suppresses metastasis of breast cancer cells by targeting RAF/MEK/ERK pathway to inhibit actin stress fiber formation	MDA-MB-231 cells, Sulforaphane, actin stress fiber formation	Breast cancer metastasis is the main cause of cancer death in women, so far, no effective treatment has inhibited breast cancer metastasis. Sulforaphane (SFN), a natural compound derived from broccoli, has shown potential health benefits in many cancers. However, research on breast cancer metastasis is still insufficient. Here, we showed that SFN, including its two isomers of R-SFN and S-SFN, significantly inhibited TGF-beta1-induced migration and invasion in breast cancer cells. Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis showed that SFN affected the formation of the cytoskeleton. Subsequent experiments confirmed that SFN significantly inhibited TGF-beta1-induced actin stress fiber formation and the expression of actin stress fiber formation-associated proteins, including paxillin, IQGAP1, FAK, PAK2, and ROCK. Additionally, SFN is directly bound to RAF family proteins (including ARAF, BRAF, and CRAF) and inhibited MEK and ERK phosphorylation. These in vitro results indicate that SFN targets the RAF/MEK/ERK signaling pathway to inhibit the formation of actin stress fibers, thereby inhibiting breast cancer cell metastasis.
PXD030947	35332176	SWATH-MS identification of CXCL7, LBP, TGFbeta1 and PDGFRbeta as novel biomarkers in human systemic mastocytosis. 	SWATH-MS identification of CXCL7, LBP, TGFbeta1 and PDGFRbeta as novel biomarkers in human systemic mastocytosis.	Biomarkers, Mastocytosis, Swath-MS	Mastocytosis is a rare myeloproliferative disease, characterised by accumulation of neoplastic mast cells in one or several organs. It presents as cutaneous or systemic. Patients with advanced systemic mastocytosis have a median survival of 3.5 years. The aetiology of mastocytosis is poorly understood, patients present with a broad spectrum of varying clinical symptoms that lack specificity to point clearly to a definitive diagnosis. Discovery of novel blood borne biomarkers would provide a tractable method for rapid identification of mastocytosis and its sub-types. Moving towards this goal, we carried out a clinical biomarker study on blood from twenty individuals (systemic mastocytosis: n = 12, controls: n = 8), which were subjected to global proteome investigation using the novel technology SWATH-MS. This identified several putative biomarkers for systemic mastocytosis. Orthogonal validation of these putative biomarkers was achieved using ELISAs. Utilising this workflow, we identified and validated CXCL7, LBP, TGFbeta1 and PDGF receptor-beta as novel biomarkers for systemic mastocytosis. We demonstrate that CXCL7 correlates with neutrophil count offering a new insight into the increased prevalence of anaphylaxis in mastocytosis patients. Additionally, demonstrating the utility of SWATH-MS for the discovery of novel biomarkers in the systemic mastocytosis diagnostic sphere.
PXD029914	35333001	Different Oligomeric States of the Tumor Suppressor p53 Show Identical Binding Behavior towards the S100beta Homodimer. 	Different Oligomeric States of the Tumor Suppressor p53 Show Identical Binding Behavior Towards the S100beta Homodimer	S100beta, cross-linking, intrinsically disordered proteins, p53, tumor suppressor	The tumor suppressor protein p53 is a transcription factor that is referred to as the "guardian of the genome" and plays an important role in cancer development. p53 is active as a homotetramer; the S100beta homodimer binds to the intrinsically disordered C-terminus of p53 affecting its transcriptional activity. The p53/S100beta complex is regarded as highly promising therapeutic target in cancer. It has been suggested that S100beta exerts its oncogenic effects by altering the p53 oligomeric state. Our aim was to study the structures and oligomerization behavior of different p53/S100beta complexes by ESI-MS, XL-MS, and SPR. Wild-type p53 and single amino acid variants, representing different oligomeric states of p53 were individually investigated regarding their binding behavior towards S100beta. The stoichiometry of the different p53/S100beta complexes were determined by ESI-MS showing that tetrameric, dimeric, and monomeric p53 variants all bind to an S100beta dimer. In addition, XL-MS revealed the topologies of the p53/S100beta complexes to be independent of p53's oligomeric state. With SPR, the thermodynamic parameters were determined for S100beta binding to tetrameric, dimeric, or monomeric p53 variants. Our data prove that the S100beta homodimer binds to different oligomeric states of p53 with similar binding affinities. This emphasizes the need for alternative explanations to describe the molecular mechanisms underlying p53/S100beta interaction.
PXD030171	35333152	Exposure to the Pseudomonas aeruginosa secretome alters the proteome and secondary metabolite production of Aspergillus fumigatus. 	Exposure to Pseudomonas aeruginosa secretome alters the proteome and secondary metabolite production of Aspergillus fumigatus.	Aspergillus fumigatus, LFQ proteomics, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, culture filtrate	The fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus is frequently cultured from the sputum of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients along with the bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa. A. fumigatus secretes a range of secondary metabolites, and one of these, gliotoxin, has inhibitory effects on the host immune response. The effect of P. aeruginosa culture filtrate (CuF) on fungal growth and gliotoxin production was investigated. Exposure of A. fumigatus hyphae to P. aeruginosa cells induced increased production of gliotoxin and a decrease in fungal growth. In contrast, exposure of A. fumigatus hyphae to P. aeruginosa CuF led to increased growth and decreased gliotoxin production. Quantitative proteomic analysis was used to characterize the proteomic response of A. fumigatus upon exposure to P. aeruginosa CuF. Changes in the profile of proteins involved in secondary metabolite biosynthesis (e.g. gliotoxin, fumagillin, pseurotin A), and changes to the abundance of proteins involved in oxidative stress (e.g. formate dehydrogenase) and detoxification (e.g. thioredoxin reductase) were observed, indicating that the bacterial secretome had a profound effect on the fungal proteome. Alterations in the abundance of proteins involved in detoxification and oxidative stress highlight the ability of A. fumigatus to differentially regulate protein synthesis in response to environmental stresses imposed by competitors such as P. aeruginosa. Such responses may ultimately have serious detrimental effects on the host.
PXD030881	35335125	Discovery of Proteins Responsible for Resistance to Three Chemotherapy Drugs in Breast Cancer Cells Using Proteomics and Bioinformatics Analysis. 	TMT 10-plex based quantitative proteomic analysis of drug resistant breast cancer cell lines	Breast Cancer, Drug Resistance, TMT	Chemoresistance is a daunting obstacle to the effective treatment of breast cancer patients receiving chemotherapy. Although the mechanism of chemotherapy drug resistance has been explored broadly, the precise mechanism at the proteome level remains unclear. Especially, comparative studies between widely used anticancer drugs in breast cancer are very limited. In this study, we employed proteomics and bioinformatics approaches on chemoresistant breast cancer cell lines to understand the underlying resistance mechanisms that resulted from doxorubicin (DR), paclitaxel (PR), and tamoxifen (TAR). In total, 10,385 proteins were identified and quantified from three TMT 6-plex and one TMT 10-plex experiments. Bioinformatics analysis showed that Notch signaling, immune response, and protein re-localization processes were uniquely associated with DR, PR, and TAR resistance, respectively. In addition, proteomic signatures related to drug resistance were identified as potential targets of many FDA-approved drugs. Furthermore, we identified potential prognostic proteins with significant effects on overall survival. Representatively, PLXNB2 expression was associated with a highly significant increase in risk, and downregulation of ACOX3 was correlated with a worse overall survival rate. Consequently, our study provides new insights into the proteomic aspects of the distinct mechanisms underlying chemoresistance in breast cancer.
PXD030468	35336227	The Proteogenome of Symbiotic Frankia alni in Alnus glutinosa Nodules. 	Proteogenomic analysis of Frankia alni in Alnus glutinosa nodules and N2-fixing pure cultures.	Alnus, Frankia, bacteria, host interaction, nitrogen fixation, nodules, plant	Omics are the most promising approaches to investigate microbes for which no genetic tools exist such as the nitrogen-fixing symbiotic Frankia. A proteogenomic analysis of symbiotic Frankia alni was done by comparing those proteins more and less abundant in Alnus glutinosa nodules relative to N2-fixing pure cultures with propionate as the carbon source. There were 250 proteins that were significantly overabundant in nodules at a fold change (FC) >= 2 threshold, and 1429 with the same characteristics in in vitro nitrogen-fixing pure culture. Nitrogenase, SuF (Fe-Su biogenesis) and hopanoid lipids synthesis determinants were the most overabundant proteins in symbiosis. Nitrogenase was found to constitute 3% of all Frankia proteins in nodules. Sod (superoxide dismutase) was overabundant, indicating a continued oxidative stress, while Kats (catalase) were not. Several transporters were overabundant including one for dicarboxylates and one for branched amino acids. The present results confirm the centrality of nitrogenase in the actinorhizal symbiosis.
PXD031473	35336837	Proteotranscriptomic Analysis and Toxicity Assay Suggest the Functional Distinction between Venom Gland Chambers in Twin-Spotted Assassin Bug, Platymeris biguttatus. 	Proteotranscriptomic Analysis and Toxicity Assay Suggest the Functional Distinction between Venom Gland Chambers in Twin-Spotted Assassin Bug, Platymeris biguttatus	Platymeris biguttatus, salivary, venom gland	Assassin bugs use their salivary venoms for various purposes, including defense, prey paralyzation, and extra-oral digestion, but the mechanisms underlying the functional complexity of the venom remain largely unclear. Since venom glands are composed of several chambers, it is suggested that individual chambers may be specialized to produce chemically distinct venoms to exert different functions. The current study assesses this hypothesis by performing toxicity assays and transcriptomic and proteomic analysis on components from three major venom gland chambers including the anterior main gland (AMG), the posterior main gland (PMG), and the accessory gland (AG) of the assassin bug Platymeris biguttatus. Proteotranscriptomic analysis reveals that AMG and PMG extracts are rich in hemolytic proteins and serine proteases, respectively, whereas transferrin and apolipophorin are dominant in the AG. Toxicity assays reveal that secretions from different gland chambers have distinct effects on the prey, with that from AG compromising prey mobility, that from PMG causing prey death and liquifying the corpse, and that from AMG showing no significant physiological effects. Our study reveals a functional cooperation among venom gland chambers of assassin bugs and provides new insights into physiological adaptations to venom-based predation and defense in venomous predatory bugs.
PXD029207	35337019	A BioID-Derived Proximity Interactome for SARS-CoV-2 Proteins. 	A BioID-derived proximity interactome for SARS-CoV-2 proteins	BioID, SARS-Cov2, Shiny application, protein-protein interaction	The novel coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 is responsible for the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and has caused a major health and economic burden worldwide. Understanding how SARS-CoV-2 viral proteins behave in host cells can reveal underlying mechanisms of pathogenesis and assist in development of antiviral therapies. Here, the cellular impact of expressing SARS-CoV-2 viral proteins was studied by global proteomic analysis, and proximity biotinylation (BioID) was used to map the SARS-CoV-2 virus-host interactome in human lung cancer-derived cells. Functional enrichment analyses revealed previously reported and unreported cellular pathways that are associated with SARS-CoV-2 proteins. We have established a website to host the proteomic data to allow for public access and continued analysis of host-viral protein associations and whole-cell proteomes of cells expressing the viral-BioID fusion proteins. Furthermore, we identified 66 high-confidence interactions by comparing this study with previous reports, providing a strong foundation for future follow-up studies. Finally, we cross-referenced candidate interactors with the CLUE drug library to identify potential therapeutics for drug-repurposing efforts. Collectively, these studies provide a valuable resource to uncover novel SARS-CoV-2 biology and inform development of antivirals.
PXD027513	35338151	PUMILIO proteins promote colorectal cancer growth via suppressing p21. 	PUMILIO Proteins in Colorectal Cancer: Tumor Growth Promoting Function and Potential as Therapeutic Targets	LC-MS, Pumilio protein, TMT, human colorectal cancer	PUMILIO (PUM) proteins belong to the highly conserved PUF family post-transcriptional regulators involved in diverse biological processes. However, their function in carcinogenesis remains under-explored. Here, we report that Pum1 and Pum2 display increased expression in human colorectal cancer (CRC). Intestine-specific knockout of Pum1 and Pum2 in mice significantly inhibits the progression of colitis-associated cancer in the AOM/DSS model. Knockout or knockdown of Pum1 and/or Pum2 in human CRC cells result in a significant decrease in the tumorigenicity and delayed G1/S transition. We identify p21/Cdkn1a as a direct target of PUM1. Abrogation of the PUM1 binding site in the p21 mRNA also results in decreased cancer cell growth and delayed G1/S transition. Furthermore, intravenous injection of nanoparticle-encapsulated anti-Pum1 and Pum2 siRNAs reduces colorectal tumor growth in murine orthotopic colon cancer models. These findings reveal the requirement of PUM proteins for CRC progression and their potential as therapeutic targets.
PXD028320	35339693	Forward and reverse degradomics defines the proteolytic landscape of human knee osteoarthritic cartilage and the role of the serine protease HtrA1. 	Forward and reverse degradomics defines the proteolytic landscape of human knee osteoarthritic cartilage and the role of the serine protease HtrA1	ATOMS, Degradomics, HtrA1, N-terminomics, Osteoarthritis	OBJECTIVES: Proteolytic destruction of articular cartilage, a major pathogenic mechanism in osteoarthritis (OA), was not previously investigated by terminomics strategies. We defined the degradome of human knee OA cartilage and the contribution therein of the protease HtrA1 using Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates (TAILS). DESIGN: Proteins from OA cartilage taken at knee arthroplasty (n = 6) or separately, from healthy cartilage incubated in triplicate with/without active HtrA1, were labeled at natural and proteolytically cleaved N-termini by reductive dimethylation, followed by trypsin digestion, enrichment of N-terminally labeled/blocked peptides, tandem mass spectrometry and positional peptide annotation to identify cleavage sites. Biglycan proteolysis by HtrA1 was validated biochemically and Amino-Terminal Oriented Mass Spectrometry of Substrates (ATOMS) was used to define the HtrA1 cleavage sites. RESULTS: We identified 10,155 unique internal peptides from 2,162 proteins, suggesting at least 10,797 cleavage sites in OA cartilage. 7,635 internal peptides originated in 371 extracellular matrix/secreted components, many undergoing extensive proteolysis. Rampant ragging of protein termini suggested pervasive exopeptidase activity. HtrA1, the most abundant protease in OA cartilage, experimentally generated 323 cleavages in 109 cartilage proteins, accounting for 171 observed cleavages in the OA degradome. ATOMS identified HtrA1 cleavage sites in a selected substrate, biglycan, whose direct cleavage by HtrA1 was thus orthogonally validated. CONCLUSIONS: OA cartilage demonstrates widespread proteolysis by endo- and exopeptidases. HtrA1 contributes broadly to cartilage proteolysis. Forward degradomics of OA cartilage together with reverse degradomics of proteases active in OA, e.g., HtrA1, can potentially fully annotate OA proteolytic pathways and provide new biomarkers.
PXD022841	35339703	Identification and characterisation of sPEPs in Cryptococcus neoformans. 	C. neoformans small peptides SWATH-MS proteomics	C. neoformans, sPEPs	Short open reading frame (sORF)-encoded peptides (sPEPs) have been found across a wide range of genomic locations in a variety of species. To date, their identification, validation, and characterisation in the human fungal pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans has been limited due to a lack of standardised protocols. We have developed an enrichment process that enables sPEP detection within a protein sample from this polysaccharide-encapsulated yeast, and implemented proteogenomics to provide insights into the validity of predicted and hypothetical sORFs annotated in the C. neoformans genome. Novel sORFs were discovered within the 5' and 3' UTRs of known transcripts as well as in "non-coding" RNAs. One novel candidate, dubbed NPB1, that resided in an RNA annotated as "non-coding", was chosen for characterisation. Through the creation of both specific point mutations and a full deletion allele, the function of the new sPEP, Npb1, was shown to resemble that of the bacterial trans-translation protein SmpB.
PXD029782	35340765	Proteomic Identification of a Gastric Tumor ECM Signature Associated With Cancer Progression. 	Proteomic identification of a gastric tumor ECM signature associated with cancer progression	Extracellular matrix, biomarker, gastric cancer, matrisome	The extracellular matrix (ECM) plays an undisputable role in tissue homeostasis and its deregulation leads to altered mechanical and biochemical cues that impact cancer development and progression. Herein, we undertook a novel approach to address the role of gastric ECM in tumorigenesis, which remained largely unexplored. By combining decellularization techniques with a high-throughput quantitative proteomics approach, we have performed an extensive characterization of human gastric mucosa, uncovering its composition and distribution among tumor, normal adjacent and normal distant mucosa. Our results revealed a common ECM signature composed of 142 proteins and indicated that gastric carcinogenesis encompasses ECM remodeling through alterations in the abundance of 24 components, mainly basement membrane proteins. Indeed, we could only identify one de novo tumor-specific protein, the collagen alpha-1(X) chain (COL10A1). Functional analysis of the data demonstrated that gastric ECM remodeling favors tumor progression by activating ECM receptors and cellular processes involved in angiogenesis and cell-extrinsic metabolic regulation. By analyzing mRNA expression in an independent GC cohort available at the TGCA, we validated the expression profile of 12 differentially expressed ECM proteins. Importantly, the expression of COL1A2, LOX and LTBP2 significantly correlated with high tumor stage, with LOX and LTBP2 further impacting patient overall survival. These findings contribute for a better understanding of GC biology and highlight the role of core ECM components in gastric carcinogenesis and their clinical relevance as biomarkers of disease prognosis.
PXD031420	35343789	Decoding the Absolute Stoichiometric Composition and Structural Plasticity of alpha-Carboxysomes. 	Decoding the absolute stoichiometric composition and structural plasticity of alpha-carboxysomes	carboxysomes	Carboxysomes are anabolic bacterial microcompartments that play an essential role in carbon fixation in cyanobacteria and some chemoautotrophs. This self-assembling organelle encapsulates the key CO2-fixing enzymes, Rubisco, and carbonic anhydrase using a polyhedral protein shell that is constructed by hundreds of shell protein paralogs. The alpha-carboxysome from the chemoautotroph Halothiobacillus neapolitanus serves as a model system in fundamental studies and synthetic engineering of carboxysomes. In this study, we adopted a QconCAT-based quantitative mass spectrometry approach to determine the stoichiometric composition of native alpha-carboxysomes from H. neapolitanus. We further performed an in-depth comparison of the protein stoichiometry of native alpha-carboxysomes and their recombinant counterparts heterologously generated in Escherichia coli to evaluate the structural variability and remodeling of alpha-carboxysomes. Our results provide insight into the molecular principles that mediate carboxysome assembly, which may aid in rational design and reprogramming of carboxysomes in new contexts for biotechnological applications. IMPORTANCE A wide range of bacteria use special protein-based organelles, termed bacterial microcompartments, to encase enzymes and reactions to increase the efficiency of biological processes. As a model bacterial microcompartment, the carboxysome contains a protein shell filled with the primary carbon fixation enzyme Rubisco. The self-assembling organelle is generated by hundreds of proteins and plays important roles in converting carbon dioxide to sugar, a process known as carbon fixation. In this study, we uncovered the exact stoichiometry of all building components and the structural plasticity of the functional alpha-carboxysome, using newly developed quantitative mass spectrometry together with biochemistry, electron microscopy, and enzymatic assay. The study advances our understanding of the architecture and modularity of natural carboxysomes. The knowledge learned from natural carboxysomes will suggest feasible ways to produce functional carboxysomes in other hosts, such as crop plants, with the overwhelming goal of boosting cell metabolism and crop yields.
PXD028417	35344800	Hydrogels derived from decellularized liver tissue support the growth and differentiation of cholangiocyte organoids. 	Cholangiocyte organoid culture in hydrogels from decellularized liver tissue	cholangiocyte, hydrogel, liver, organoid, regeneration	Human cholangiocyte organoids are promising for regenerative medicine applications, such as repair of damaged bile ducts. However, organoids are typically cultured in mouse tumor-derived basement membrane extracts (BME), which is poorly defined, highly variable and limits the direct clinical applications of organoids in patients. Extracellular matrix (ECM)-derived hydrogels prepared from decellularized human or porcine livers are attractive alternative culture substrates. Here, the culture and expansion of human cholangiocyte organoids in liver ECM(LECM)-derived hydrogels is described. These hydrogels support proliferation of cholangiocyte organoids and maintain the cholangiocyte-like phenotype. The use of LECM hydrogels does not significantly alter the expression of selected genes or proteins, such as the cholangiocyte marker cytokeratin-7, and no species-specific effect is found between human or porcine LECM hydrogels. Proliferation rates of organoids cultured in LECM hydrogels are lower, but the differentiation capacity of the cholangiocyte organoids towards hepatocyte-like cells is not altered by the presence of tissue-specific ECM components. Moreover, human LECM extracts support the expansion of ICO in a dynamic culture set up without the need for laborious static culture of organoids in hydrogel domes. Liver ECM hydrogels can successfully replace tumor-derived BME and can potentially unlock the full clinical potential of human cholangiocyte organoids.
PXD030245	35346688	Protein folding stabilities are a major determinant of oxidation rates for buried methionine residues. 	Protein folding stabilities are a major determinant of oxidation rates for buried methionine residues	Lumos, methionine, oxidation-reduction, protein stability, quantitative proteomics	The oxidation of protein-bound methionines to form methionine sulfoxides has a broad range of biological ramifications, making it important to delineate factors that influence methionine oxidation rates within a given protein. This is especially important for biopharmaceuticals, where oxidation can lead to deactivation and degradation. Previously, neighboring residue effects and solvent accessibility have been shown to impact the susceptibility of methionine residues to oxidation. In this study, we provide proteome-wide evidence that oxidation rates of buried methionine residues are also strongly influenced by the thermodynamic folding stability of proteins. We surveyed the Escherichia coli proteome using several proteomic methodologies and globally measured oxidation rates of methionine residues in the presence and absence of tertiary structure, as well as the folding stabilities of methionine-containing domains. These data indicated that buried methionines have a wide range of protection factors against oxidation that correlate strongly with folding stabilities. Consistent with this, we show that in comparison to E. coli, the proteome of the thermophile Thermus thermophilus is significantly more stable and thus more resistant to methionine oxidation. To demonstrate the utility of this correlation, we used native methionine oxidation rates to survey the folding stabilities of E. coli and T. thermophilus proteomes at various temperatures and propose a model that relates the temperature dependence of the folding stabilities of these two species to their optimal growth temperatures. Overall, these results indicate that oxidation rates of buried methionines from the native state of proteins can be used as a metric of folding stability.
PXD022789	35347318	Molecular consequences of SARS-CoV-2 liver tropism. 	Transcriptomic and proteomic landscape of SARS-CoV-2 liver tropism	Covid-19, Liver tropism, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, hepatic	Extrapulmonary manifestations of COVID-19 have gained attention due to their links to clinical outcomes and their potential long-term sequelae(1). Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) displays tropism towards several organs, including the heart and kidney. Whether it also directly affects the liver has been debated(2,3). Here we provide clinical, histopathological, molecular and bioinformatic evidence for the hepatic tropism of SARS-CoV-2. We find that liver injury, indicated by a high frequency of abnormal liver function tests, is a common clinical feature of COVID-19 in two independent cohorts of patients with COVID-19 requiring hospitalization. Using autopsy samples obtained from a third patient cohort, we provide multiple levels of evidence for SARS-CoV-2 liver tropism, including viral RNA detection in 69% of autopsy liver specimens, and successful isolation of infectious SARS-CoV-2 from liver tissue postmortem. Furthermore, we identify transcription-, proteomic- and transcription factor-based activity profiles in hepatic autopsy samples, revealing similarities to the signatures associated with multiple other viral infections of the human liver. Together, we provide a comprehensive multimodal analysis of SARS-CoV-2 liver tropism, which increases our understanding of the molecular consequences of severe COVID-19 and could be useful for the identification of organ-specific pharmacological targets.
PXD031119	35347323	Aryl-hydrocarbon receptor-interacting protein regulates tumorigenic and metastatic properties of colorectal cancer cells driving liver metastasis. 	Aryl hydrocarbon receptor-interacting protein regulates tumorigenic and metastatic properties of colorectal cancer cells driving liver metastasis	AIP, Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor-Interacting Protein, Cadherin-17, Cancer Proteomics, Colorectal Cancer, Liver Metastasis	BACKGROUND: Liver metastasis is the primary cause of colorectal cancer (CRC)-associated death. Aryl-hydrocarbon receptor-interacting protein (AIP), a putative positive intermediary in aryl-hydrocarbon receptor-mediated signalling, is overexpressed in highly metastatic human KM12SM CRC cells and other highly metastatic CRC cells. METHODS: Meta-analysis and immunohistochemistry were used to assess the relevance of AIP. Cellular functions and signalling mechanisms mediated by AIP were assessed by gain-of-function experiments and in vitro and in vivo experiments. RESULTS: A significant association of high AIP expression with poor CRC patients' survival was observed. Gain-of-function and quantitative proteomics experiments demonstrated that AIP increased tumorigenic and metastatic properties of isogenic KM12C (poorly metastatic) and KM12SM (highly metastatic to the liver) CRC cells. AIP overexpression dysregulated epithelial-to-mesenchymal (EMT) markers and induced several transcription factors and Cadherin-17 activation. The former induced the signalling activation of AKT, SRC and JNK kinases to increase adhesion, migration and invasion of CRC cells. In vivo, AIP expressing KM12 cells induced tumour growth and liver metastasis. Furthermore, KM12C (poorly metastatic) cells ectopically expressing AIP became metastatic to the liver. CONCLUSIONS: Our data reveal new roles for AIP in regulating proteins associated with cancer and metastasis to induce tumorigenic and metastatic properties in colon cancer cells driving liver metastasis.
PXD030736	35347988	Proteomics and Integrated Techniques to Characterize Organic Residues in Funerary Findings from Italic Populations of the First Millennium BC. 	Proteomics and integrated techniques to characterize organic residues in funerary findings from Italic populations of the first millennium B.C.	Archaeological finds, Bovine bone, Bovine milk, Organic residue analysis	Multiple analytical techniques were combined to achieve a detailed characterization of organic residues in different typologies of funerary pottery, which were found at two separate archeological sites in the Campania Region (Italy) and both dated back to the first millennium BC. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis of lipids provided inconclusive results. The attenuated total reflectance-Fourier transform infrared (ATR-FTIR) spectra of encrustation on two glazed bowls of the 3rd to 4th century BC were comparable to those of fresh bone, revealing the presence of hydroxyapatite and proteins, which were identified as bovine collagen chains by liquid chromatography coupled to high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based proteomics. This finding confirmed that Italic populations used to inhume the dead along with votive meat offerings. Proteomics was decisive for identifying bovine milk in an unusually shaped amphora unearthed from a grave that belonged to a woman at the necropolis of the Greek colony in Cuma (7th century BC). Peptidomic analysis demonstrated that the genetic variant A(1) of beta-casein was already present in the southern Mediterranean area at least 2500 years ago. Overall, these results depict an agropastoral system of Italic populations at the age of Magna Graecia based on a significant role of domesticated cattle.
PXD031474	35348622	Discovery of efficacy biomarkers for non-small cell lung cancer with first-line anti-PD-1 immunotherapy by  data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. 	Discovery of efficacy biomarkers for NSCLC with first-line anti-PD-1 immunotherapy by DIA	Biomarker, DIA, Plasma, Proteome profiling	First-line immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) have greatly ameliorated outcomes in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, approximately a quarter of patients receiving ICIs demonstrate long-term clinical benefit, and the true responders have not been fully clarified by the existing biomarkers. To discover potential biomarkers treatment-related outcomes in plasma, mass spectrometry assay for the data-independent acquisition was analyzed plasma samples collected before the anti-PD-1 treatment. From July 2019 to January 2020, 15 patients with EGFR/ALK-negative NSCLC receiving first-line anti-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) inhibitors were enrolled, and six healthy individuals have collected the plasma samples as control. We explored plasma proteome profiles and conducted stratified analyses by anti-PD-1 responders and non-responders. To validate the target proteins by ELISA, we recruited 22 additional independent patients and 15 healthy individuals from April 2021 to August 2021. By identifying biomarkers to predict better efficacy, we performed differential expression analysis in 12 responders and three non-responders. Compared with healthy individuals, hierarchical cluster analysis revealed plasma proteome profiles of NSCLC were markedly changed in 170 differentially expressed proteins. Furthermore, we discovered that SAA1, SAA2, S100A8, and S100A9 were noticeably increased among non-responders than responders, which may serve as predictive biomarkers with unfavorable responses. The validated results from all samples via ELISA have confirmed this observation. Identified a set of plasma-derived protein biomarkers (SAA1, SAA2, S100A8, and S100A9) that could potentially predict the efficacy in cohorts of patients with NSCLC treated with first-line anti-PD-1 inhibitors and deserves further prospective study.
PXD022769	35348751	SEED LIPID DROPLET PROTEIN1, SEED LIPID DROPLET PROTEIN2, and LIPID DROPLET PLASMA MEMBRANE ADAPTOR mediate lipid droplet-plasma membrane tethering. 	Identification of a lipid droplet-plasma membrane tethering complex	TAG, germination, lipid droplets, membrane contact sites, plasma membrane, seed, seedling, tethering complex	Membrane contact sites (MCSs) are interorganellar connections that allow for the direct exchange of molecules, such as lipids or Ca2+ between organelles, but can also serve to tether organelles at specific locations within cells. Here, we identified and characterized three proteins of Arabidopsis thaliana that form a lipid droplet (LD)-plasma membrane (PM) tethering complex in plant cells, namely LD-localized SEED LD PROTEIN (SLDP) 1 and SLDP2 and PM-localized LD-PLASMA MEMBRANE ADAPTOR (LIPA). Using proteomics and different protein-protein interaction assays, we show that both SLDPs associate with LIPA. Disruption of either SLDP1 and SLDP2 expression, or that of LIPA, leads to an aberrant clustering of LDs in Arabidopsis seedlings. Ectopic co-expression of one of the SLDPs with LIPA is sufficient to reconstitute LD-PM tethering in Nicotiana tabacum pollen tubes, a cell type characterized by dynamically moving LDs in the cytosolic streaming. Furthermore, confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed both SLDP2.1 and LIPA to be enriched at LD-PM contact sites in seedlings. These and other results suggest that SLDP and LIPA interact to form a tethering complex that anchors a subset of LDs to the PM during post-germinative seedling growth in Arabidopsis.
PXD032275	35349291	Structure-Specific N-Glycoproteomics Characterization of NIST Monoclonal Antibody Reference Material 8671. 	monoclonal antibody NIST8671 LC-MS/MS	monocloanl antibody NIST8671	The characteristics of monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) cohering various function effectors show great expectation in therapy. Glycosylation, one of the common post-translational modifications, deeply influences cohesion. It is necessary to grasp monosaccharide composition/sequence and glycan structures in mAbs. There has been comprehensive mass spectrometry characterization of N-glycosylation of mAbs, and monosaccharide compositions are deduced according to known biosynthetic rules. Our recently developed intact N-glycopeptide search engine GPSeeker has made structure-specific characterization of N-glycosylation possible with structure-diagnostic fragment ions from selective fragmentation of N-glycan moieties. Here, we report our structure-specific N-glycoproteomics characterization of NIST monoclonal antibody reference material 8671 using GPSeeker, and 59 N-glycan structures (including 16 pairs of isomers) are characterized.
PXD021542	35350066	Suppression of Endothelial Cell FAK Expression Reduces Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Metastasis after Gemcitabine Treatment. 	Low endothelial cell FAK expression reduces pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma liver metastasis after gemcitabine treatment	Chemotherapy, Endothelium, Focal Adhesion Kinase, Gemcitabine, Metastasis, Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma, Resistance, Tumour models, phosphoproteomics	Despite substantial advances in the treatment of solid cancers, resistance to therapy remains a major obstacle to prolonged progression-free survival. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is one of the most aggressive cancers, with a high level of liver metastasis. Primary PDAC is highly hypoxic, and metastases are resistant to first-line treatment, including gemcitabine. Recent studies have indicated that endothelial cell (EC) focal adhesion kinase (FAK) regulates DNA-damaging therapy-induced angiocrine factors and chemosensitivity in primary tumor models. Here, we show that inducible loss of EC-FAK in both orthotopic and spontaneous mouse models of PDAC is not sufficient to affect primary tumor growth but reduces liver and lung metastasis load and improves survival rates in gemcitabine-treated, but not untreated, mice. EC-FAK loss did not affect primary tumor angiogenesis, tumor blood vessel leakage, or early events in metastasis, including the numbers of circulating tumor cells, tumor cell homing, or metastatic seeding. Phosphoproteomics analysis showed a downregulation of the MAPK, RAF, and PAK signaling pathways in gemcitabine-treated FAK-depleted ECs compared with gemcitabine-treated wild-type ECs. Moreover, low levels of EC-FAK correlated with increased survival and reduced relapse in gemcitabine-treated patients with PDAC, supporting the clinical relevance of these findings. Altogether, we have identified a new role of EC-FAK in regulating PDAC metastasis upon gemcitabine treatment that impacts outcome. SIGNIFICANCE: These findings establish the potential utility of combinatorial endothelial cell FAK targeting together with gemcitabine in future clinical applications to control metastasis in patients with pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma.
PXD031061	35353507	Global Quantification of Glutathione S-Transferases in Human Serum Using LC-MS/MS Coupled with Affinity Enrichment. 	Global quantification of glutathione S-transferases in human serum using LC-MS/MS coupled with affinity enrichment	GSH-affinity, glutathione S-transferases, human serum, liver diseases, quantitative proteomics	The members of the glutathione S-transferase (GST) superfamily often exhibit functional overlap and can compensate for each other. Their concentrations in serum are considered as disease biomarkers. A global and quantitative evaluation of serum GSTs is therefore urgent, but there is a lack of efficient approaches due to technological limitations. GSH magnetic beads were examined for their affinity to enrich GSTs in serum, and the enriched GSTs were quantitatively targeted using a Q Exactive HF-X mass spectrometer in parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) mode. To optimize the quantification of GST peptides, sample types, trypsin digestion, and serum loading were carefully assessed; a biosynthetic method was employed to generate isotope-labeled GST peptides, and instrumental parameters were systematically optimized. A total of 134 clinical sera were collected for GST quantification from healthy donors and patients with four liver diseases. Using the new approach, GSTs in healthy sera were profiled: 14 GST peptides were quantified, and the abundance of five GST families was ranked GSTM > GSTP > GSTA > MGST1 > GSTT1, ranging from 0.1 to 4 pmol/L. Furthermore, combining the abundance of multiple GST peptides could effectively distinguish different types of liver diseases. Quantification of serum GSTs through targeted proteomics, therefore, has apparent clinical potential for disease diagnosis.
PXD026766	35353987	Kinase domain autophosphorylation rewires the activity and substrate specificity of CK1 enzymes. 	Autophosphorylation of the CK1 kinase domain regulates enzyme activity and substrate specificity	CK1, S. pombe, casein kinase 1, kinase regulation, substrate specificity	CK1s are acidophilic serine/threonine kinases with multiple critical cellular functions; their misregulation contributes to cancer, neurodegenerative diseases, and sleep phase disorders. Here, we describe an evolutionarily conserved mechanism of CK1 activity: autophosphorylation of a threonine (T220 in human CK1delta) located at the N terminus of helix alphaG, proximal to the substrate binding cleft. Crystal structures and molecular dynamics simulations uncovered inherent plasticity in alphaG that increased upon T220 autophosphorylation. The phosphorylation-induced structural changes significantly altered the conformation of the substrate binding cleft, affecting substrate specificity. In T220 phosphorylated yeast and human CK1s, activity toward many substrates was decreased, but we also identified a high-affinity substrate that was phosphorylated more rapidly, and quantitative phosphoproteomics revealed that disrupting T220 autophosphorylation rewired CK1 signaling in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. T220 is present exclusively in the CK1 family, thus its autophosphorylation may have evolved as a unique regulatory mechanism for this important family.
PXD027439	35354033	High temporal resolution proteome and phosphoproteome profiling of stem cell-derived hepatocyte development. 	High temporal resolution proteome and phosphoproteome profiling of stem cell-derived hepatocyte development	2D versus 3D differentiation, Hepatocyte differentiation, phosphoproteomics, quantitative mass spectrometry, stem cell-derived organoids	Primary human hepatocytes are widely used to evaluate liver toxicity of drugs, but they are scarce and demanding to culture. Stem cell-derived hepatocytes are increasingly discussed as alternatives. To obtain a better appreciation of the molecular processes during the differentiation of induced pluripotent stem cells into hepatocytes, we employ a quantitative proteomic approach to follow the expression of 9,000 proteins, 12,000 phosphorylation sites, and 800 acetylation sites over time. The analysis reveals stage-specific markers, a major molecular switch between hepatic endoderm versus immature hepatocyte-like cells impacting, e.g., metabolism, the cell cycle, kinase activity, and the expression of drug transporters. Comparing the proteomes of two- (2D) and three-dimensional (3D)-derived hepatocytes with fetal and adult liver indicates a fetal-like status of the in vitro models and lower expression of important ADME/Tox proteins. The collective data enable constructing a molecular roadmap of hepatocyte development that serves as a valuable resource for future research.
PXD015604	35354045	Asthmatic bronchial smooth muscle increases rhinovirus replication within the bronchial epithelium. 	Severe asthmatic bronchial smooth muscle decreases epithelial response to rhinovirus infection.	Asthma, epithelium, smooth muscle cells	Rhinovirus (RV) infection of the bronchial epithelium is implicated in the vast majority of severe asthma exacerbations. Interestingly, the susceptibility of bronchial epithelium to RV infection is increased in persons with asthma. Bronchial smooth muscle (BSM) remodeling is an important feature of severe asthma pathophysiology, and its reduction using bronchial thermoplasty has been associated with a significant decrease in the exacerbation rate. We hypothesized that asthmatic BSM can play a role in RV infection of the bronchial epithelium. Using an original co-culture model between bronchial epithelium and BSM cells, we show that asthmatic BSM cells increase RV replication in bronchial epithelium following RV infection. These findings are related to the increased production of CCL20 by asthmatic BSM cells. Moreover, we demonstrate an original downregulation of the activity of the epithelial protein kinase RNA-activated (PKR) antiviral pathway. Finally, we identify a direct bottom-up effect of asthmatic BSM cells on bronchial epithelium susceptibility to RV infection.
PXD028735	35354825	A comprehensive LFQ benchmark dataset on modern day acquisition strategies in proteomics. 	A comprehensive LFQ benchmark dataset to validate data analysis pipelines on modern day acquisition strategies in proteomics	Benchmark, DIA, ProteomeXchange project tag: deep learning, SWATH, benchmarking, ion mobility, machine learning	In the last decade, a revolution in liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) based proteomics was unfolded with the introduction of dozens of novel instruments that incorporate additional data dimensions through innovative acquisition methodologies, in turn inspiring specialized data analysis pipelines. Simultaneously, a growing number of proteomics datasets have been made publicly available through data repositories such as ProteomeXchange, Zenodo and Skyline Panorama. However, developing algorithms to mine this data and assessing the performance on different platforms is currently hampered by the lack of a single benchmark experimental design. Therefore, we acquired a hybrid proteome mixture on different instrument platforms and in all currently available families of data acquisition. Here, we present a comprehensive Data-Dependent and Data-Independent Acquisition (DDA/DIA) dataset acquired using several of the most commonly used current day instrumental platforms. The dataset consists of over 700 LC-MS runs, including adequate replicates allowing robust statistics and covering over nearly 10 different data formats, including scanning quadrupole and ion mobility enabled acquisitions. Datasets are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD028735).
PXD029403	35355014	Rixosomal RNA degradation contributes to silencing of Polycomb target genes. 	Chromatin-associated RNA degradation contributes to silencing of Polycomb target genes	Polycomb Repressive Complex Rixosome RNA Degradation WDR18 NOL9	Polycomb repressive complexes 1 and 2 (PRC1 and PRC2) are histone-modifying and -binding complexes that mediate the formation of facultative heterochromatin and are required for silencing of developmental genes and maintenance of cell fate(1-3). Multiple pathways of RNA decay work together to establish and maintain heterochromatin in fission yeast, including a recently identified role for a conserved RNA-degradation complex known as the rixosome or RIX1 complex(4-6). Whether RNA degradation also has a role in the stability of mammalian heterochromatin remains unknown. Here we show that the rixosome contributes to silencing of many Polycomb targets in human cells. The rixosome associates with human PRC complexes and is enriched at promoters of Polycomb target genes. Depletion of either the rixosome or Polycomb results in accumulation of paused and elongating RNA polymerase at Polycomb target genes. We identify point mutations in the RING1B subunit of PRC1 that disrupt the interaction between PRC1 and the rixosome and result in diminished silencing, suggesting that direct recruitment of the rixosome to chromatin is required for silencing. Finally, we show that the RNA endonuclease and kinase activities of the rixosome and the downstream XRN2 exoribonuclease, which degrades RNAs with 5' monophosphate groups generated by the rixosome, are required for silencing. Our findings suggest that rixosomal degradation of nascent RNA is conserved from fission yeast to human, with a primary role in RNA degradation at facultative heterochromatin in human cells.
PXD027968	35355015	Anatomic position determines oncogenic specificity in melanoma. 	Anatomic position determines oncogenic specificity in melanoma	IP-MS, melanoma	Oncogenic alterations to DNA are not transforming in all cellular contexts(1,2). This may be due to pre-existing transcriptional programmes in the cell of origin. Here we define anatomic position as a major determinant of why cells respond to specific oncogenes. Cutaneous melanoma arises throughout the body, whereas the acral subtype arises on the palms of the hands, soles of the feet or under the nails(3). We sequenced the DNA of cutaneous and acral melanomas from a large cohort of human patients and found a specific enrichment for BRAF mutations in cutaneous melanoma and enrichment for CRKL amplifications in acral melanoma. We modelled these changes in transgenic zebrafish models and found that CRKL-driven tumours formed predominantly in the fins of the fish. The fins are the evolutionary precursors to tetrapod limbs, indicating that melanocytes in these acral locations may be uniquely susceptible to CRKL. RNA profiling of these fin and limb melanocytes, when compared with body melanocytes, revealed a positional identity gene programme typified by posterior HOX13 genes. This positional gene programme synergized with CRKL to amplify insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signalling and drive tumours at acral sites. Abrogation of this CRKL-driven programme eliminated the anatomic specificity of acral melanoma. These data suggest that the anatomic position of the cell of origin endows it with a unique transcriptional state that makes it susceptible to only certain oncogenic insults.
PXD013361	35355520	Multi-omics protein-coding units as massively parallel Bayesian networks: Empirical validation of causality structure. 	CD4_TMT                       .	T cell	In this article we use high-throughput epigenomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics data to construct fine-graded models of the "protein-coding units" gathering all transcript isoforms and chromatin accessibility peaks associated with more than 4000 genes in humans. Each protein-coding unit has the structure of a directed acyclic graph (DAG) and can be represented as a Bayesian network. The factorization of the joint probability distribution induced by the DAGs imposes a number of conditional independence relationships among the variables forming a protein-coding unit, corresponding to the missing edges in the DAGs. We show that a large fraction of these conditional independencies are indeed verified by the data. Factors driving this verification appear to be the structural and functional annotation of the transcript isoforms, as well as a notion of structural balance (or frustration-free) of the corresponding sample correlation graph, which naturally leads to reduction of correlation (and hence to independence) upon conditioning.
PXD029441	35356285	Extracellular Vesicles From LPS-Treated Macrophages Aggravate Smooth Muscle Cell Calcification by Propagating Inflammation and Oxidative Stress. 	Role of EVs in inflammation propagation and oxidative stress during vascular calcification	extracellular vesicles, macrophage	Background: Vascular calcification (VC) is a cardiovascular complication associated with a high mortality rate among patients with diseases such as atherosclerosis and chronic kidney disease. During VC, vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) undergo an osteogenic switch and secrete a heterogeneous population of extracellular vesicles (EVs). Recent studies have shown involvement of EVs in the inflammation and oxidative stress observed in VC. We aimed to decipher the role and mechanism of action of macrophage-derived EVs in the propagation of inflammation and oxidative stress on VSMCs during VC. Methods: The macrophage murine cell line RAW 264.7 treated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS-EK) was used as a cellular model for inflammatory and oxidative stress. EVs secreted by these macrophages were collected by ultracentrifugation and characterized by transmission electron microscopy, cryo-electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis, and the analysis of acetylcholinesterase activity, as well as that of CD9 and CD81 protein expression by western blotting. These EVs were added to a murine VSMC cell line (MOVAS-1) under calcifying conditions (4 mM Pi-7 or 14 days) and calcification assessed by the o-cresolphthalein calcium assay. EV protein content was analyzed in a proteomic study and EV cytokine content assessed using an MSD multiplex immunoassay. Results: LPS-EK significantly decreased macrophage EV biogenesis. A 24-h treatment of VSMCs with these EVs induced both inflammatory and oxidative responses. LPS-EK-treated macrophage-derived EVs were enriched for pro-inflammatory cytokines and CAD, PAI-1, and Saa3 proteins, three molecules involved in inflammation, oxidative stress, and VC. Under calcifying conditions, these EVs significantly increase the calcification of VSMCs by increasing osteogenic markers and decreasing contractile marker expression. Conclusion: Our results show that EVs derived from LPS-EK-treated-macrophages are able to induce pro-inflammatory and pro-oxidative responses in surrounding cells, such as VSMCs, thus aggravating the VC process.
PXD017270	35358180	Identification of substrates of palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 highlights roles of depalmitoylation in disulfide bond formation and synaptic function. 	Identification of palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 substrates defines roles for synaptic depalmitoylation	AMPA receptor, Palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1, neurodegeneration, neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoisis, palmitoylation, synapse, synaptic adhesion molecules, synaptic cleft, synaptic vesicle endocytosis	Loss-of-function mutations in the depalmitoylating enzyme palmitoyl protein thioesterase 1 (PPT1) cause neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL), a devastating neurodegenerative disease. The substrates of PPT1 are largely undescribed, posing a limitation on molecular dissection of disease mechanisms and therapeutic development. Here, we provide a resource identifying >100 novel PPT1 substrates. We utilized Acyl Resin-Assisted Capture (Acyl RAC) and mass spectrometry to identify proteins with increased in vivo palmitoylation in PPT1 knockout (KO) mouse brains. We then validated putative substrates through direct depalmitoylation with recombinant PPT1. This stringent screen elucidated diverse PPT1 substrates at the synapse, including channels and transporters, G-protein-associated molecules, endo/exocytic components, synaptic adhesion molecules, and mitochondrial proteins. Cysteine depalmitoylation sites in transmembrane PPT1 substrates frequently participate in disulfide bonds in the mature protein. We confirmed that depalmitoylation plays a role in disulfide bond formation in a tertiary screen analyzing posttranslational modifications (PTMs). Collectively, these data highlight the role of PPT1 in mediating synapse functions, implicate molecular pathways in the etiology of NCL and other neurodegenerative diseases, and advance our basic understanding of the purpose of depalmitoylation.
PXD030300	35358850	The amyloid peptide beta disrupts intercellular junctions and increases endothelial permeability in a NADPH oxidase 1-dependent manner. 	Amyloid peptide beta-dependent loss of endothelial barrier function	Alzheimer's disease, Amyloid peptide beta, endothelial barrier, hippocampus, oxidative stress	Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of dementia and is associated with the accumulation of amyloid peptide beta in the brain parenchyma. Vascular damage and microvascular thrombosis contribute to the neuronal degeneration and the loss of brain function typical of this disease. In this study, we utilised a murine model of Alzheimer's disease to evaluate the neurovascular effects of this disease. Upon detection of an increase in the phosphorylation of the endothelial surface receptor VE-cadherin, we focused our attention on endothelial cells and utilised two types of human endothelial cells cultured in vitro: 1) human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and 2) human brain microvascular endothelial cells (hBMECs). Using an electrical current impedance system (ECIS) and FITC-albumin permeability assays, we discovered that the treatment of human endothelial cells with amyloid peptide beta causes a loss in their barrier function, which is oxidative stress-dependent and similarly to our observation in mouse brain associates with VE-cadherin phosphorylation. The activation of the superoxide anion-generating enzyme NADPH oxidase 1 is responsible for the oxidative stress that leads to the disruption of barrier function in human endothelial cells in vitro. In summary, we have identified a novel molecular mechanism explaining how the accumulation of amyloid peptide beta in the brain parenchyma may induce the loss of neurovascular barrier function, which has been observed in patients. Neurovascular leakiness plays an important role in brain inflammation and neuronal degeneration driving the progression of the Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, this study provides a novel and promising target for the development of a pharmacological treatment to protect neurovascular function and reduce the progression of the neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's patients.
PXD031218	35359597	A Nanobody-Based Toolset to Monitor and Modify the Mitochondrial GTPase Miro1. 	A nanobody-based toolset to monitor and modify the mitochondrial GTPase Miro1	Interactome, Miro1, Nanobody	The mitochondrial outer membrane (MOM)-anchored GTPase Miro1, is a central player in mitochondrial transport and homeostasis. The dysregulation of Miro1 in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Parkinson's disease (PD) suggests that Miro1 may be a potential biomarker or drug target in neuronal disorders. However, the molecular functionality of Miro1 under (patho-) physiological conditions is poorly known. For a more comprehensive understanding of the molecular functions of Miro1, we have developed Miro1-specific nanobodies (Nbs) as novel research tools. We identified seven Nbs that bind either the N- or C-terminal GTPase domain of Miro1 and demonstrate their application as research tools for proteomic and imaging approaches. To visualize the dynamics of Miro1 in real time, we selected intracellularly functional Nbs, which we reformatted into chromobodies (Cbs) for time-lapse imaging of Miro1. By genetic fusion to an Fbox domain, these Nbs were further converted into Miro1-specific degrons and applied for targeted degradation of Miro1 in live cells. In summary, this study presents a collection of novel Nbs that serve as a toolkit for advanced biochemical and intracellular studies and modulations of Miro1, thereby contributing to the understanding of the functional role of Miro1 in disease-derived model systems.
PXD031079	35359966	TL1A/DR3 Axis, A Key Target of TNF-a, Augments the Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transformation of Epithelial Cells in OVA-Induced Asthma. 	Differences in proteins between normal and asthmatic mice and effects of knockout TL1A on asthmatic mice	EMT, OVA, TL1A, TNF-a, airway remodeling, asthma	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-like cytokine 1A (TL1A), a member of the TNF family, exists in the form of membrane-bound (mTL1A) and soluble protein (sTL1A). TL1A binding its only known functional receptor death domain receptor 3 (DR3) affects the transmission of various signals. This study first proposed that the TL1A/DR3 axis was significantly upregulated in patients and mice with both asthma and high TNF-a expression and in TNF-a-stimulated epithelial Beas-2B cells. Two independent approaches were used to demonstrate that the TL1A/DR3 axis of mice was strongly correlated with TNF-a in terms of exacerbating asthmatic epithelial-mesenchymal transformation (EMT). First, high expression levels of EMT proteins (e.g., collagen I, fibronectin, N-cadherin, and vimentin) and TL1A/DR3 axis were observed when mice airways were stimulated by recombinant mouse TNF-a protein. Moreover, EMT protein and TL1A/DR3 axis expression synchronously decreased after mice with OVA-induced asthma were treated with infliximab by neutralizing TNF-a activity. Furthermore, the OVA-induced EMT of asthmatic mice was remarkably improved upon the deletion of the TL1A/DR3 axis by knocking out the TL1A gene. TL1A siRNA remarkably intervened EMT formation induced by TNF-a in the Beas-2B cells. In addition, EMT was induced by the addition of high concentrations of recombinant human sTL1A with the cell medium. The TL1A overexpression via pc-mTL1A in vitro remarkably increased the EMT formation induced by TNF-a. Overall, these findings indicate that the TL1A/DR3 axis may have a therapeutic role for asthmatic with high TNF-a level.
PXD031050	35360242	Modulation of Plasma Proteomic Profile by Regular Training in Male and Female Basketball Players: A Preliminary Study. 	Plasma proteomic profile by regular training in male and female basketball players: a preliminary study	Basketball, Exerkines, Plasma proteome, Regular training, sex differences	Monitoring fatigue and recovery during training periods contributes to identifying the best training methods to achieve sports performance. To date, little is known about sex-related differences in sports adaptations. The aim of the present study is to identify sex-related sports adaptation proteins in female basketball players and male basketball players using proteomics approach on plasma samples withdrawn from athletes during in-season training period but far from a competition. A cohort of 20 professional basketball players, 10 female (BF) and 10 male (BM), and 20 sedentary male (10 CM) and female (10 CF) as control, of comparable age and BMI, were involved in this study. Protein profiles of plasma samples obtained from BM, BF, CM, and CF were analyzed by two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-DE). Differentially expressed proteins were identified by mass spectrometry. The computational 2-DE gel image analysis pointed out 33 differentially expressed protein spots (ANOVA p-value < 0.05) and differences between male and female basketball players are more evident among the players than controls. The expression profile of 54.5% of the total proteins is affected by sports activity. Furthermore, 14 proteins are differentially expressed in basket female players in comparison with their relative controls while seven are differentially expressed in basket male players in comparison with their controls. In conclusion, we identify in female athletes a reduction in proteins related to transcription regulation, most of these modulate chronic inflammation confirming the anti-inflammatory effect of regular training in female muscle metabolism. In male and female athletes, we found a decrease in Transthyretin involved in muscle homeostasis and regeneration and Dermcidin a stress-induced myokine linked to inflammatory and it will be interesting to fully understand the role of its different isoforms in male and female skeletal muscle contraction.
PXD026923	35360746	Cell-Matrix Interactions Contribute to Barrier Function in Human Colon Organoids. 	Cell-matrix adhesion contributes to permeability control in human colon organoids	Colon, basement membrane, colon organoids, gut barrier, intestinal permeabilty	The importance of cell-matrix adhesion to barrier control in the colon is unclear. The goals of the present study were to: (i) determine if disruption of colon epithelial cell interactions with the extracellular matrix alters permeability control measurement and (ii) determine if increasing the elaboration of protein components of cell-matrix adhesion complexes can mitigate the effects of cell-matrix disruption. Human colon organoids were interrogated for transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) under control conditions and in the presence of Aquamin(R), a multi-mineral product. A function-blocking antibody directed at the C-terminal region of the laminin alpha chain was used in parallel. The effects of Aquamin(R) on cell-matrix adhesion protein expression were determined in a proteomic screen and by Western blotting. Aquamin(R) increased the expression of multiple basement membrane, hemidesmosomal and focal adhesion proteins as well as keratin 8 and 18. TEER values were higher in the presence of Aquamin(R) than they were under control conditions. The blocking antibody reduced TEER values under both conditions but was most effective in the absence of Aquamin(R), where expression of cell-matrix adhesion proteins was lower to begin with. These findings provide evidence that cell-matrix interactions contribute to barrier control in the colon.
PXD031064	35362222	S1P defects cause a new entity of cataract, alopecia, oral mucosal disorder, and psoriasis-like syndrome. 	Human LC-MS/MS for MBTPS1/S1P protein	human LC-MS/MS	In this report, we discovered a new entity named cataract, alopecia, oral mucosal disorder, and psoriasis-like (CAOP) syndrome in two unrelated and ethnically diverse patients. Furthermore, patient 1 failed to respond to regular treatment. We found that CAOP syndrome was caused by an autosomal recessive defect in the mitochondrial membrane-bound transcription factor peptidase/site-1 protease (MBTPS1, S1P). Mitochondrial abnormalities were observed in patient 1 with CAOP syndrome. Furthermore, we found that S1P is a novel mitochondrial protein that forms a trimeric complex with ETFA/ETFB. S1P enhances ETFA/ETFB flavination and maintains its stability. Patient S1P variants destabilize ETFA/ETFB, impair mitochondrial respiration, decrease fatty acid beta-oxidation activity, and shift mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) to glycolysis. Mitochondrial dysfunction and inflammatory lesions in patient 1 were significantly ameliorated by riboflavin supplementation, which restored the stability of ETFA/ETFB. Our study discovered that mutations in MBTPS1 resulted in a new entity of CAOP syndrome and elucidated the mechanism of the mutations in the new disease.
PXD027745	35362542	Protection against ulcerative colitis and colorectal cancer by evodiamine via anti-inflammatory effects. 	The protection of Evodiamine against Ulcerative Colitis and Colorectal Cancer via anti-inflammation	Colorectal cancer, Evodiamine, NF-ÎºB, Ulcerative colitis, inflammation	Evodiamine (Evo) is an alkaloid that can be extracted from the berry fruit Evodia rutaecarpa and has been reported to exert various pharmacological effects, such as antidiarrheal, antiemetic and antiulcer effects. In vivo, the potential effects of Evo were investigated in a mouse model of dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced ulcerative colitis (UC) and in adenomatous polyposis coli (Apc)(MinC)/Gpt C57BL/6 mice with colorectal cancer (CRC), where the latter harbours a point-mutation in the Apc gene. Evo suppressed the degree of weight loss and colon shortening induced by DSS, decreased the disease activity index value and ameliorated the pathological alterations in the colon of mice with UC as examined via H&E staining of colon tissues. In addition, Evo decreased the number and size of colonic tumors in Apc(MinC)/Gpt mice. Proteomics (colon tissues), ELISA (colon tissues and serum) and western blotting (colon tissues) results revealed that Evo inhibited NF-kappaB to mediate the levels of various cytokines, including, in the DSS-induced UC model, IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-6, IL-8, TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma (ELISA of colon tissues and serum), NF-kappaB, IKKalpha+beta, IkappaBalpha, S100a9, TLR4 and MyD88 (western blotting of colon tissues), and, in the colorectal cancer model, IL-1beta, IL-2, IL-6, IL-15, IL-17, IL-22, TNF-alpha (ELISA of colon tissues and serum), NF-kappaB, IKKalpha+beta, IkappaBalpha and S100a9 (western blotting of colon tissues), to achieve its anti-inflammatory and antitumor effects. In vitro, Evo also reduced the viability of the colon cancer cell line SW480, inhibited mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP detection), caused G2/M-phase arrest (cell cycle detection) and suppressed the translocation of phosphorylated-NF-kappaB from the cytoplasm into the nucleus (immunofluorescence of p-NF-kappaB). Theoretical evidence (MD simulations) suggest that Evo may bind to the ordered domain (alpha-helix) of NF-kappaB to influence this protein. The protein secondary structure changes were analyzed by the cpptraj module in Amber. In addition, these data provide experimental evidence that Evo may be an effective agent for treating UC and CRC.
PXD028412	35362647	Proteomic Tools for the Quantitative Analysis of Artificial Peptide Libraries: Detection and Characterization of Target-Amplified PD-1 Inhibitors. 	Proteomic tools for the quantitative analysis of artificial peptide libraries: detection and characterization of target-amplified PD-1 inhibitors	Medicinal chemistry, drug discovery	We report a quantitative proteomics data analysis pipeline, which coupled to protein-directed dynamic combinatorial chemistry (DDC) experiments, enables the rapid discovery and direct characterization of protein-protein interaction (PPI) modulators. A low-affinity PD-1 binder was incubated with a library of >100 D-peptides under thiol-exchange favoring conditions, in the presence of the target protein PD-1, and we determined the S-linked dimeric species that resulted, amplified in the protein samples versus the controls. We chemically synthesized the target dimer candidates and validated them by thermophoresis binding and protein-protein interaction assays. The results provide a proof-of-concept for using this strategy in the high-throughput search of improved drug-like peptide binders that block therapeutically relevant protein-protein interactions.
PXD033400	35363088	An Integrative Multi-Omics Analysis Reveals MicroRNA-143 as a Potential Therapeutic to Attenuate Retinal Angiogenesis. 	Multi omics analysis of adaptation to repeated DNA damage in prostate cancer cells.	DNA damage, Radiotherapy, multi-omics, prostate cancer, unfolded protein response	Retinal neovascularization is a severe complication of proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are master regulators of gene expression that play an important role in retinal neovascularization. In this study, we show that miR-143-3p is significantly downregulated in the retina of a rat model of oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) by miRNA-sequencing. Intravitreal injection of synthetic miR-143 mimics significantly ameliorate retinal neovascularization in OIR rats. miR-143 is identified to be highly expressed in the neural retina particularly in the ganglion cell layer and retinal vasculature. In miR-143 treated cells, the functional evaluation showed a decrease in cell migration and delayed endothelial vessel-like tube remodeling. The multiomics analysis suggests that miR-143 negatively impacts endothelial cell activity through regulating cell-matrix adhesion and mediating hypoxia-inducible factor-1 signaling. We predict hub genes regulated by miR-143 that may be involved in mediating endothelial cell function by cytoHubba. We also demonstrate that the retinal neovascular membranes in patients with PDR principally consist of endothelial cells by CIBERSORTx. We then identify 2 hub genes, thrombospondin 1 and plasminogen activator inhibitor, direct targets of miR-143, that significantly altered in the PDR patients. These findings suggest that miR-143 appears to be essential for limiting endothelial cell-matrix adhesion, thus suppressing retinal neovascularization.
PXD032810	35364627	USP28 enables oncogenic transformation of respiratory cells, and its inhibition potentiates molecular therapy targeting mutant EGFR, BRAF and PI3K. 	USP28 enables oncogenic transformation of respiratory cells and its inhibition potentiates molecular therapy targeting mutant EGFR, BRAF and PI3K.	BRAF, Buparlisib, EGFR, HRAS Gefitinib, PIK3CA, USP28, Vemurafenib, c-JUN, c-MYC, lung cancer	Oncogenic transformation of lung epithelial cells is a multistep process, frequently starting with the inactivation of tumour suppressors and subsequent development of activating mutations in proto-oncogenes, such as members of the PI3K or MAPK families. Cells undergoing transformation have to adjust to changes, including altered metabolic requirements. This is achieved, in part, by modulating the protein abundance of transcription factors. Here, we report that the ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 28 (USP28) enables oncogenic reprogramming by regulating the protein abundance of proto-oncogenes such as c-JUN, c-MYC, NOTCH and incrementNP63 at early stages of malignant transformation. USP28 levels are increased in cancer compared with in normal cells due to a feed-forward loop, driven by increased amounts of oncogenic transcription factors such as c-MYC and c-JUN. Irrespective of oncogenic driver, interference with USP28 abundance or activity suppresses growth and survival of transformed lung cells. Furthermore, inhibition of USP28 via a small-molecule inhibitor resets the proteome of transformed cells towards a 'premalignant' state, and its inhibition synergizes with clinically established compounds used to target EGFR(L858R) -, BRAF(V600E) - or PI3K(H1047R) -driven tumour cells. Targeting USP28 protein abundance at an early stage via inhibition of its activity is therefore a feasible strategy for the treatment of early-stage lung tumours, and the observed synergism with current standard-of-care inhibitors holds the potential for improved targeting of established tumours.
PXD031543	35365663	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analyses identify STK11IP as a lysosome-specific substrate of mTORC1 that regulates lysosomal acidification. 	Quantitative Phosphoproteomic Analyses Identify STK11IP as a Lysosome-Specific Substrate of mTORC1 that Regulates Lysosomal Acidification	Phosphoproteomics STK11IP	The evolutionarily conserved serine/threonine kinase mTORC1 is a central regulator of cell growth and proliferation. mTORC1 is activated on the lysosome surface. However, once mTORC1 is activated, it is unclear whether mTORC1 phosphorylates local lysosomal proteins to regulate specific aspects of lysosomal biology. Through cross-reference analyses of the lysosome proteome with the mTORC1-regulated phosphoproteome, we identify STK11IP as a lysosome-specific substrate of mTORC1. mTORC1 phosphorylates STK11IP at Ser(404). Knockout of STK11IP leads to a robust increase of autophagy flux. Dephosphorylation of STK11IP at Ser(404) represses the role of STK11IP as an autophagy inhibitor. Mechanistically, STK11IP binds to V-ATPase, and regulates the activity of V-ATPase. Knockout of STK11IP protects mice from fasting or Methionine/Choline-Deficient Diet (MCD)-induced fatty liver. Thus, our study demonstrates that STK11IP phosphorylation represents a mechanism for mTORC1 to regulate lysosomal acidification and autophagy, and points to STK11IP as a promising therapeutic target for the amelioration of diseases with aberrant autophagy signaling.
PXD028409	35366366	The novel protein ScrA acts through the SaeRS two-component system to regulate virulence gene expression in Staphylococcus aureus. 	The novel peptide ScrA acts through the SaeRS two component system to regulate virulence gene expression in Staphylococcus aureus	SaeRS, Small peptides, Staphylococcus aureus, Virulence	Staphylococcus aureus is a Gram-positive commensal that can also cause a variety of infections in humans. S. aureus virulence factor gene expression is under tight control by a complex regulatory network, which includes, sigma factors, sRNAs, and two-component systems (TCS). Previous work in our laboratory demonstrated that overexpression of the sRNA tsr37 leads to an increase in bacterial aggregation. Here, we demonstrate that the clumping phenotype is dependent on a previously unannotated 88 amino acid protein encoded within the tsr37 sRNA transcript (which we named ScrA for S. aureus clumping regulator A). To investigate the mechanism of action of ScrA we performed proteomics and transcriptomics in a ScrA overexpressing strain and show that a number of surface adhesins are upregulated, while secreted proteases are downregulated. Results also showed upregulation of the SaeRS TCS, suggesting that ScrA is influencing SaeRS activity. Overexpression of ScrA in a saeR mutant abrogates the clumping phenotype confirming that ScrA functions via the Sae system. Finally, we identified the ArlRS TCS as a positive regulator of scrA expression. Collectively, our results show that ScrA is an activator of the SaeRS system and suggests that ScrA may act as an intermediary between the ArlRS and SaeRS systems.
PXD030640	35366759	Extracellular vesicles derived from human Sertoli cells: characterizations, proteomic analysis, and miRNA profiling. 	Proteomic analysis of human Sertoli cells-derived extracellular vesicles	Sertoli cells, extracellular vesicles, spermiogenesis	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) contain thousands of proteins and nucleic acids, playing an important role in cell-cell communications. Sertoli cells have been essential in the testis as a "nurse cell". However, EVs derived from human Sertoli cells (HSerCs) have not been well investigated. METHODS: EVs were isolated from HSerCs via ultracentrifugation and characterized by transmission electron microscopy, tunable resistive pulse sensing, and Western blotting. The cargo carried by HSerCs-EVs was measured via liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and GeneChip miRNA Arrays. Bioinformatic analysis was performed to reveal potential functions of HSerCs-EVs. RESULTS: A total of 860 proteins with no less than 2 unique peptides and 88 microRNAs with high signal values were identified in HSerCs-EVs. Biological processes related to molecular binding, enzyme activity, and regulation of cell cycle were significantly enriched. Specifically, many proteins in HSerCs-EVs were associated with spermatogenesis and regulation of immune system, including Septins, Large proline-rich protein BAG6, Clusterin, and Galectin-1. Moreover, abundant microRNAs within HSerCs-EVs (miR-638, miR-149-3p, miR-1246, etc.) had a possible impact on male reproductive disorders such as asthenozoospermia and oligozoospermia. CONCLUSIONS: Our study has shown that HSerCs-EVs contain diverse components such as proteins and microRNAs. Further research is required to evaluate HSerCs-EVs in spermatogenesis, which are underutilized but highly potent resources with particular promise for male infertility.
PXD026687	35366889	Hydrogel supplemented with human platelet lysate enhances multi-lineage differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells. 	stem cells from human exfoliated deciduous teeth cultured with human platelet lysate	HPL, SHED	Stem cells from human exfoliated deciduous teeth (SHED) can be used as a potential clinical material. But the use of xenogeneic ingredients will increase the risk of zoonotic disease transmission. Human platelet lysate (HPL) is a potential surrogate and used in human cell expansion with reliability in clinical applications. In this study, we synthesized chitosan/gelatin/gellan gum hydrogel supplemented with HPL and investigated the effect of 3D culture for SHED. TMT-tagged proteomics was used to decipher the secretome protein profiles of SHEDs and a total of 3209 proteins were identified, of which 23 were up-regulated and 192 were down-regulated. The results showed that hydrogel supplemented with HPL promoted SHED proliferation. After induction, the hydrogel coating contributed to osteogenic differentiation, adipogenic differentiation and differentiation into neural-like cells of SHED. SHED encapsulated in a hydrogel promotes migration and angiogenesis of HUVEC. In conclusion, our research found that hydrogel supplemented with HPL can be used as a method for SHED in standardized production and can contribute to the clinical application of SHED in cell therapy.
PXD028309	35367648	Immunopeptidomic analyses of colorectal cancers with and without microsatellite instability. 	Discovery of tumor-specific antigens in colorectal cancer	Colorectal cancer, MHC class I, immunopeptidome	Colorectal cancer is the second leading cause of cancer death worldwide, and the incidence of this disease is expected to increase as global socioeconomic changes occur. Immune checkpoint inhibition therapy is effective in treating a minority of colorectal cancer tumors; however, microsatellite stable tumors do not respond well to this treatment. Emerging cancer immunotherapeutic strategies aim to activate a cytotoxic T cell response against tumor-specific antigens, presented exclusively at the cell surface of cancer cells. These antigens are rare and are most effectively identified with a mass spectrometry-based approach, which allows the direct sampling and sequencing of these peptides. Although the few tumor-specific antigens identified to date are derived from coding regions of the genome, recent findings indicate that a large proportion of tumor-specific antigens originate from allegedly noncoding regions. Here, we employed a novel proteogenomic approach to identify tumor antigens in a collection of colorectal cancer-derived cell lines and biopsy samples consisting of matched tumor and normal adjacent tissue. The generation of personalized cancer databases paired with mass spectrometry analyses permitted the identification of more than 30,000 unique MHC I-associated peptides. We identified 19 tumor-specific antigens in both microsatellite stable and unstable tumors, over two-thirds of which were derived from noncoding regions. Many of these peptides were derived from source genes known to be involved in colorectal cancer progression, suggesting that antigens from these genes could have therapeutic potential in a wide range of tumors. These findings could benefit the development of T cell-based vaccines, in which T cells are primed against these antigens to target and eradicate tumors. Such a vaccine could be used in tandem with existing immune checkpoint inhibition therapies, to bridge the gap in treatment efficacy across subtypes of colorectal cancer with varying prognoses. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD028309.
PXD030193	35368874	Capecitabine Regulates HSP90AB1 Expression and Induces Apoptosis via Akt/SMARCC1/AP-1/ROS Axis in T Cells. 	quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic reveal the underlying mechanism of capecitabine's immunosuppressive effect	mice spleen capecitabine immunosuppression quantitative proteomic phosphoproteomic	Transplant oncology is a newly emerging discipline integrating oncology, transplant medicine, and surgery and has brought malignancy treatment into a new era via transplantation. In this context, obtaining a drug with both immunosuppressive and antitumor effects can take into account the dual needs of preventing both transplant rejection and tumor recurrence in liver transplantation patients with malignancies. Capecitabine (CAP), a classic antitumor drug, has been shown to induce reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and apoptosis in tumor cells. Meanwhile, we have demonstrated that CAP can induce ROS production and apoptosis in T cells to exert immunosuppressive effects, but its underlying molecular mechanism is still unclear. In this study, metronomic doses of CAP were administered to normal mice by gavage, and the spleen was selected for quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis. The results showed that CAP significantly reduced the expression of HSP90AB1 and SMARCC1 in the spleen. It was subsequently confirmed that CAP also significantly reduced the expression of HSP90AB1 and SMARCC1 and increased ROS and apoptosis levels in T cells. The results of in vitro experiments showed that HSP90AB1 knockdown resulted in a significant decrease in p-Akt, SMARCC1, p-c-Fos, and p-c-Jun expression levels and a significant increase in ROS and apoptosis levels. HSP90AB1 overexpression significantly inhibited CAP-induced T cell apoptosis by increasing the p-Akt, SMARCC1, p-c-Fos, and p-c-Jun expression levels and reducing the ROS level. In conclusion, HSP90AB1 is a key target of CAP-induced T cell apoptosis via Akt/SMARCC1/AP-1/ROS axis, which provides a novel understanding of CAP-induced T cell apoptosis and lays the experimental foundation for further exploring CAP as an immunosuppressant with antitumor effects to optimize the medication regimen for transplantation patients.
PXD029070	35369347	Dynamics and Functional Interplay of Nonhistone Lysine Crotonylome and Ubiquitylome in Vascular Smooth Muscle Cell Phenotypic Remodeling. 	Rat vascular smooth muscle cells LC-MS/MS	VSMC	Background: The crotonylation of histones is discovered of late as one of the post-translational modifications (PTMs) that can regulate gene expression. However, the function of crotonylation on nonhistone proteins in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) is unclear. Here, we aim to find the cellular characteristics of crotonylated nonhistone proteins and the cross talk with ubiquitinated proteins in VSMC phenotypic remodeling using the modified omics and proteomic analysis. Methods: We performed the modified omics and proteomic analysis of VSMCs before and after the stimulation with platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB). The crotonylated and ubiquitinated pan-antibody was used to enrich proteins and then subjected to a high-throughput mass spectrometry analysis. The enrichment analysis was performed within differentially modified proteins in regard to GO terms, KEGG, and protein domains. Results: As a result, there were 2,138 crotonylation sites in 534 proteins and 1,359 ubiquitination sites corresponding to 657 proteins. These crotonylated proteins detected after PDGF-BB stimulation might be involved in various vital cellular pathways and carry out important functions in VSMCs. Some of them closely took part in significant physiological processes of VSMC phenotypic remodeling, including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, vascular smooth muscle contraction, and the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. Furthermore, the KEGG pathway enrichment analysis showed the involvement of ubiquitinated proteins in the physiological processes of VSMC phenotypic remodeling, including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, vascular smooth muscle contraction, RAS signaling pathway, or the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. A cross talk analysis showed that there were 199 sites within the 177 proteins modified by crotonylation and ubiquitination simultaneously. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis indicated that crotonylated and ubiquitinated proteins play an important role in cellular bioprocess commonly and possibly have a synergistic effect. Conclusion: In summary, our bioinformatics analysis shows that the crotonylation and ubiquitination of nonhistone proteins play an essential role in VSMC phenotypic transformation induced by PDGF-BB stimulation. The cross talk between crotonylation and ubiquitination in glycolysis is possibly a novel mechanism during VSMC phenotypic remodeling.
PXD030833	35369466	Physiological Roles of Short-Chain and Long-Chain Menaquinones (Vitamin K2) in Lactococcus cremoris. 	Comparative proteomics investigating the physiological roles of menaquinones (vitamin K2) in Lactococcus cremoris	Lactic acid bacteria, Lactococcus lactis, comparative proteomics, electron transport chain (ETC), food fermentation, respiration	Lactococcus cremoris and L. lactis are well known for their occurrence and applications in dairy fermentations, but their niche extends to a range of natural and food production environments. L. cremoris and L. lactis produce MKs (vitamin K2), mainly as the long-chain forms represented by MK-9 and MK-8, and a detectable number of short-chain forms represented by MK-3. The physiological significance of the different MK forms in the lifestyle of these bacterial species has not been investigated extensively. In this study, we used L. cremoris MG1363 to construct mutants producing different MK profiles by deletion of genes encoding (i) a menaquinone-specific isochorismate synthase, (ii) a geranyltranstransferase, and (iii) a prenyl diphosphate synthase. These gene deletions resulted in (i) a non-MK producer (DeltamenF), (ii) a presumed MK-1 producer (DeltaispA), and (iii) an MK-3 producer (Deltallmg_0196), respectively. By examining the phenotypes of the MG1363 wildtype strain and respective mutants, including biomass accumulation, stationary phase survival, oxygen consumption, primary metabolites, azo dye/copper reduction, and proteomes, under aerobic, anaerobic, and respiration-permissive conditions, we could infer that short-chain MKs like MK-1 and MK-3 are preferred to mediate extracellular electron transfer and reaction with extracellular oxygen, while the long-chain MKs like MK-9 and MK-8 are more efficient in aerobic respiratory electron transport chain. The different electron transfer routes mediated by short-chain and long-chain MKs likely support growth and survival of L. cremoris in a range of (transiently) anaerobic and aerobic niches including food fermentations, highlighting the physiological significance of diverse MKs in L. cremoris.
PXD026506	35369660	Transforming Growth Factor Beta Receptor 3 (TGFBR3)-Associated Membranous Nephropathy. 	Transforming growth factor receptor beta 3 (TGFBR3)-associated membranous nephropathy	Kidney, LCMD, LCMS, pulldown	Background: Membranous lupus nephritis (MLN) comprises 10%-15% of lupus nephritis and increases morbidity and mortality of patients with SLE through complications of nephrotic syndrome and chronic kidney failure. Identification of the target antigens in MLN may enable noninvasive monitoring of disease activity, inform treatment decisions, and aid in prognostication, as is now possible for idiopathic MN caused by antibodies against the phospholipase A2 receptor. Here, we show evidence for type III TGF-beta receptor (TGFBR3) as a novel biomarker expressed in a subset of patients with MLN. Methods: Mass spectrometry was used for protein discovery through enrichment of glomerular proteins by laser capture microdissection and through elution of immune complexes within MLN biopsy specimens. Colocalization with IgG within glomerular immune deposits from patients and disease controls was evaluated by confocal microscopy. Immunostaining of consecutive case series was used to determine the overall frequency in MN and MLN. Results: TGFBR3 was found to be enriched in glomeruli and coimmunoprecipitated with IgG within a subset of MLN biopsy specimens by mass spectrometry. Staining of consecutive MN cases without clinical evidence of SLE did not show TGFBR3 expression (zero of 104), but showed a 6% prevalence in MLN (11 of 199 cases). TGFBR3 colocalized with IgG along the glomerular basement membranes in TGFBR3-associated MN, but not in controls. Conclusions: Positive staining for TGFBR3 within glomerular immune deposits represents a distinct form of MN, substantially enriched in MLN. A diagnosis of TGFBR3-associated MN can alert the clinician to search for an underlying autoimmune disease.
PXD031082	35370661	Natural Product Alantolactone Targeting AKR1C1 Suppresses Cell Proliferation and Metastasis in Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. 	A small-molecule inhibitor targeting AKR1C1 suppresses cell proliferation and metastasis in non-small cell lung cancer	AKR1C1, Alantolactone, anticancer, non-small cell lung cancer, target identification	Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is one of the leading causes of cancer-related deaths, characterized by high invasion and metastasis. Aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C1 (AKR1C1) plays an important role in cancer cell proliferation and metastasis, and has gained attention as an anticancer drug target. Here, we report that the natural sesquiterpene lactone alantolactone (ALA) was shown to bind directly to AKR1C1 through the Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration (PISA) analysis, a label-free target identification approach based on thermal proteome profiling. Acting as a specific inhibitor of AKR1C1, ALA selectively inhibits the activity of AKR1C1 and ALA treatment in human non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cell results in a reduction in cell proliferation and metastasis, inhibition of AKR1C1 expression, and deactivation of STAT3. Moreover, ALA inhibited tumor growth in vivo, and the inhibition of AKR1C1 and STAT3 activation were also found in the murine xenograft model. Collectively, our work not only gives mechanistic insights to explain the bioactivity of ALA in anticancer but also provides opportunities of developing novel sesquiterpene lactone-based AKR1C1 inhibitors for the treatment of NSCLC.
PXD029771	35370712	Efficacy and Mechanism of Buyang Huanwu Decoction in Patients With Ischemic Heart Failure: A Randomized, Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled Trial Combined With Proteomic Analysis. 	Efficacy and Mechanism of Buyang Huanwu Decoction in Patients with Ischemic Heart Failure: A Randomized, Double-blind, Placebo-controlled Trial Combined with Proteomic Analysis	Buyang Huanwu Decoction, Ischemic heart failure, Randomized controlled trial	Objective: Buyang Huanwu Decoction (BYHW), a famous herbal prescription in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM), has been used for 200 years for treating ischemic heart failure (IHF). This study aims to assess the efficacy and safety of BYHW combined with guideline-guided pharmacotherapy in patients with IHF and explore the biological mechanism by which BYHW exerts its efficacy. Methods: In the multicenter, double-blind, randomized controlled trial, a total of 80 patients with IHF were randomized to receive BYHW or placebo for 3 months. The primary efficacy endpoints were New York Heart Association (NYHA) classification, TCM syndrome scores, N-terminal pro-B-type natriuretic peptide (NT-ProBNP), whereas the mechanism exploration endpoints included energy metabolism parameters and coagulation function parameters. In addition, we performed the proteomic study of the serum of patients after treatment by label-free quantification technology to verify the candidate target proteins and pathways. Results: After 3 months of treatment, the NYHA classification, TCM syndrome scores, and the percentage of subjects with at least 30% reduction in NT-ProBNP were significantly improved in the BYHW group, compared with the control group (p < 0.05); BYHW treatment also significantly regulated blood glucose, blood lipid levels, ameliorated energy metabolism and improved coagulation function parameters. There were no significant differences in safety endpoints between the two groups. In addition, we obtained 56 differentially expressed proteins by proteomics, including 20 upregulated proteins and 36 downregulated proteins. Bioinformatic analysis revealed the mechanism of BYHW treatment was significantly related to complement and coagulation cascades, cholesterol metabolism, NF-kappa B signaling pathway, PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, and metabolic pathways. Among these differentially regulated proteins, fibrinogen gamma (FGG), fibrinogen beta (FGB), Carboxypeptidase B2 (CPB2), Coagulation factor XIII A (F13A1), Intercellular adhesion molecule1 (ICAM1), Apolipoprotein C-II(APOC2), Apolipoprotein C-I(APOC1), and CD44 were found to be signature proteins associated with the efficacy of BYHW against IHF. Conclusion: BYHW treatment can further improve cardiac dysfunction and clinical symptoms in IHF based on standard therapy without apparent adverse effects. Additionally, BYHW may play a therapeutic role in IHF by improving energy metabolism and regulating coagulation function through multiple targets and pathways.
PXD031445	35370787	An Investigation of the Altered Textural Property in Woody Breast Myopathy Using an Integrative Omics Approach. 	An Investigation of the Altered Textural Property in Woody Breast Myopathy Using an Integrative Omics Approach	DDA shotgun profiling on Fusion MS, MaxQuant, calcium signalling, sarcoplasmic reticulum, woody breast myopathy in Gallus gallus	Woody breast (WB) is a myopathy observed in broiler Pectoralis major (PM) characterized by its tough and rubbery texture with greater level of calcium content. The objective of this study was to investigate the functionality/integrity of WB sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR), which may contribute to the elevated calcium content observed in WB and other factors that may influence WB texture. Fourteen Ross line broiler PM [7 severe WB and 7 normal (N)] were selected, packaged, and frozen at -20degreesC at 8 h postmortem from a commercial processing plant. Samples were used to measure pH, sarcomere length, proteolysis, calpain activity, collagenase activity, collagen content, collagen crosslinks density, and connective tissue peak transitional temperature. Exudate was also collected from each sample to evaluate free calcium concentration. The SR fraction of the samples was separated and utilized for proteomic and lipidomic analysis. The WB PM had a higher pH, shorter sarcomeres, lower % of intact troponin-T, more autolyzed mu/m calpain, more activated collagenase, greater collagen content, greater mature collagen crosslinks density, and higher connective tissue peak transitional temperature than the N PM (p <= 0.05). Exudate from WB PM had higher levels of free calcium than those from N PM (p < 0.05). Proteomics data revealed an upregulation of calcium transport proteins and a downregulation of proteins responsible for calcium release (p < 0.05) in WB SR. Interestingly, there was an upregulation of phospholipase A2 (PLA2), and cholinesterase exhibited a 7.6-fold increase in WB SR (p < 0.01). Lipidomics data revealed WB SR had less relative % of phosphatidylcholine (PC) and more lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC; p < 0.05). The results indicated that upregulation of calcium transport proteins and downregulation of calcium-release proteins in WB SR may be the muscle's attempt to regulate this proposed excessive signaling of calcium release due to multiple factors, such as upregulation of PLA2 resulting in PC hydrolysis and presence of cholinesterase inhibitors in the system prolonging action potential. In addition, the textural abnormality of WB may be the combined effects of shorter sarcomere length and more collagen with greater crosslink density being deposited in the broiler PM.
PXD028157	35370807	The Lack of Dopamine Transporter Is Associated With Conditional Associative Learning Impairments and Striatal Proteomic Changes. 	Proteomics quantification of striatal fraction from DAT-KO and WT rats	Brain, DAT, DAT-KO, Dopamine transporter, Rat, Striatum, knockout	Dopamine (DA) is critically involved in different functions of the central nervous system (CNS) including control of voluntary movement, affect, reward, sleep, and cognition. One of the key components of DA neurotransmission is DA reuptake by the DA transporter (DAT), ensuring rapid clearance of DA from the synaptic cleft. Thus, lack of DAT leads to persistent high extracellular DA levels. While there is strong evidence for a role of striatal dopaminergic activity in learning and memory processes, little is known about the contribution of DAT deficiency to conditional learning impairments and underlying molecular processes. DAT-knockout (DAT-KO) rats were tested in a set of behavioral experiments evaluating conditional associative learning, which requires unaltered striatal function. In parallel, a large-scale proteomic analysis of the striatum was performed to identify molecular factors probably underlying behavioral patterns. DAT-KO rats were incapable to acquire a new operant skill in Pavlovian/instrumental autoshaping, although the conditional stimulus-unconditional stimulus (CS-US) association seems to be unaffected. These findings suggest that DAT directly or indirectly contributes to the reduction of transference of incentive salience from the reward to the CS. We propose that specific impairment of conditional learning might be caused by molecular adaptations to the hyperdopaminergic state, presumably by dopamine receptor 1 (DRD1) hypofunction, as proposed by proteomic analysis. Whether DRD1 downregulation can cause cognitive deficits in the hyperdopaminergic state is the subject of discussion, and further studies are needed to answer this question. This study may be useful for the interpretation of previous and the design of future studies in the dopamine field.
PXD029664	35371026	A Combined Transcriptomic and Proteomic Approach to Reveal the Effect of Mogroside V on OVA-Induced Pulmonary Inflammation in Mice. 	DIA rawdata of OVA  and Mogroside V	OVA  Mogroside V	Mogroside V is a bioactive ingredient extracted from the natural food Siraitia grosvenorii which possesses functions that stimulate lung humidification and cough relief activities, but its underlying mechanisms were rarely studied. To estimate its potential protective effect on ovalbumin (OVA)-induced pulmonary inflammation and understand its system-wide mechanism, integrated omics was applied in this study. Mogroside V effectively reduced the levels of IgE, TNF-alpha, and IL-5 in OVA-induced mice. The results of RNA-seq and data-independent acquisition proteomics approach revealed that 944 genes and 341 proteins were differentially expressed in the normal control group (NC) and ovalbumin-induced control group (OC) and 449 genes and 259 proteins were differentially expressed between the OC and the group treated with 50 mg/kg mogroside V (MV). After a combined analysis of the transcriptome and the proteome, 93 major pathways were screened, and we discovered that mogroside V exerts an anti-inflammation effect in the lung via NF-kappaB and JAK-STAT, both of which are among the signaling pathways mentioned above. In addition, we found that the key regulatory molecules (Igha, Ighg1, NF-kappaB, Jak1, and Stat1) in the two pathways were activated in inflammation and inhibited by mogroside V. Thus, mogroside V may be the main bioactivity component in S. grosvenorii that exerts lung humidification and cough relief effects.
PXD030547	35371178	The Nitrate Transporter MtNPF6.8 Is a Master Sensor of Nitrate Signal in the Primary Root Tip of Medicago truncatula. 	Impact of nitrate on the proteome of the primary root tip of Medicago truncatula	Medicago truncatula, nitrate, primary root tip, sensitive and insensitive genotypes	Nitrate is not only an essential nutrient for plants, but also a signal involved in plant development. We have previously shown in the model legume Medicago truncatula, that the nitrate signal, which restricts primary root growth, is mediated by MtNPF6.8, a nitrate transporter. Nitrate signal also induces changes in reactive oxygen species accumulation in the root tip due to changes in cell wall peroxidase (PODs) activity. Thus, it was interesting to determine the importance of the role of MtNPF6.8 in the regulation of the root growth by nitrate and identify the POD isoforms responsible for the changes in POD activity. For this purpose, we compared in M. truncatula a npf6.8 mutant and nitrate insensitive line deficient in MtNPF6.8 and the corresponding wild and sensitive genotype for their transcriptomic and proteomic responses to nitrate. Interestingly, only 13 transcripts and no protein were differently accumulated in the primary root tip of the npf6.8-3 mutant line in response to nitrate. The sensitivity of the primary root tip to nitrate appeared therefore to be strongly linked to the integrity of MtNPF6.8 which acts as a master mediator of the nitrate signal involved in the control of the root system architecture. In parallel, 7,259 and 493 genes responded, respectively, at the level of transcripts or proteins in the wild type, 196 genes being identified by both their transcript and protein. By focusing on these 196 genes, a concordance of expression was observed for most of them with 143 genes being up-regulated and 51 being down-regulated at the two gene expression levels. Their ontology analysis uncovered a high enrichment in POD genes, allowing the identification of POD candidates involved in the changes in POD activity previously observed in response to nitrate.
PXD032308	35371990	iTRAQ-Based Proteomic Analysis Reveals Potential Serum Biomarkers for Pediatric Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma. 	iTRAQ-Based Proteomic Analysis Reveals Potential Serum Biomarkers for Pediatric Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma	children, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ), non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, serum	Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) is the third most common malignant tumor among children. However, at initial NHL diagnosis, most cases are at an advanced stage because of nonspecific clinical manifestations and currently limited diagnostic methods. This study aimed to screen and verify potential serum biomarkers of pediatric NHL using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ)-based proteomic analysis. Serum protein expression profiles from children with B-NHL (n=20) and T-NHL (n=20) and healthy controls (n=20) were detected by utilizing iTRAQ in combination with two-dimensional liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (2D LC-MS/MS) and analyzed by applying Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA). The candidate biomarkers S100A8 and LRG1 were further validated by using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs). Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis based on ELISA data was used to evaluate diagnostic efficacy. In total, 534 proteins were identified twice using iTRAQ combined with 2D LC-MS/MS. Further analysis identified 79 and 73 differentially expressed proteins in B-NHL and T-NHL serum, respectively, compared with control serum according to our defined criteria; 34 proteins were overexpressed and 45 proteins underexpressed in B-NHL, whereas 45 proteins were overexpressed and 28 proteins underexpressed in T-NHL (p < 0.05). IPA demonstrated a variety of signaling pathways, including acute phase response signaling and liver X receptor/retinoid X receptor (LXR/RXR) activation, to be strongly associated with pediatric NHL. S100A8 and LRG1 were elevated in NHL patients compared to normal controls according to ELISA (p < 0.05), which was consistent with iTRAQ results. The areas under the ROC curves of S100A8, LRG1, and the combination of S100A8 and LRG1 were 0.873, 0.898 and 0.970, respectively. Our findings indicate that analysis of the serum proteome using iTRAQ combined with 2D LC-MS/MS is a feasible approach for biomarker discovery. Serum S100A8 and LRG1 are promising candidate biomarkers for pediatric NHL, and these differential proteins illustrate a novel pathogenesis and may be clinically helpful for NHL diagnosis in the future.
PXD031270	35372351	Dynamic Mitochondrial Proteome Under Polyamines Treatment in Cardiac Aging. 	Raw data for "Dynamic mitochondrial proteome under polyamines treatment in cardiac aging"	mitochondrial proteome	Age-related alteration of mitochondria causes impaired cardiac function, along with cellular and molecular changes. Polyamines can extend the life span in mice. However, whether polyamines can affect the dynamic mitochondrial proteome, thereby preventing age-related changes in cardiac function and cardiac aging, remains unclear. In this study, we found that spermine (Spm) and spermidine (Spd) injection for 6 weeks could prevent 24-month-old rats heart dysfunction, improve mitochondrial function, and downregulate apoptosis. Using iTRAQ tools, we identify 75 mitochondrial proteins of statistically significant alteration in aging hearts, which mainly participate in important mitochondrial physiological activity, such as metabolism, translation, transport, apoptosis, and oxidative phosphorylation. Moreover, four proteins of differential expression, pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase (PDK4), trifunctional enzyme subunit alpha (HADHA), nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase (NNT), and Annexin6, which were significantly associated with heart aging, were validated by Western blotting. In vitro, we further demonstrated polyamines could retard cardiomyocytes aging through downregulating the expression of PDK4 and thereby inhibiting cell apoptosis. In summary, the distinct mitochondrial proteins identified in this study suggested some candidates involved in the anti-aging of the heart after polyamines treatment, and PDK4 may provide molecular clues for polyamines to inhibit apoptosis and thus retard aging-induced cardiac dysfunction.
PXD012612	35373908	The HSP40 chaperone Ydj1 drives amyloid beta 42 toxicity. 	The HSP40 chaperone Ydj1/DnaJA1 drives amyloid beta toxicity	Alzheimer's disease, SILAC, Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Amyloid beta 42 (Abeta42) is the principal trigger of neurodegeneration during Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the etiology of its noxious cellular effects remains elusive. In a combinatory genetic and proteomic approach using a yeast model to study aspects of intracellular Abeta42 toxicity, we here identify the HSP40 family member Ydj1, the yeast orthologue of human DnaJA1, as a crucial factor in Abeta42-mediated cell death. We demonstrate that Ydj1/DnaJA1 physically interacts with Abeta42 (in yeast and mouse), stabilizes Abeta42 oligomers, and mediates their translocation to mitochondria. Consequently, deletion of YDJ1 strongly reduces co-purification of Abeta42 with mitochondria and prevents Abeta42-induced mitochondria-dependent cell death. Consistently, purified DnaJ chaperone delays Abeta42 fibrillization in vitro, and heterologous expression of human DnaJA1 induces formation of Abeta42 oligomers and their deleterious translocation to mitochondria in vivo. Finally, downregulation of the Ydj1 fly homologue, Droj2, improves stress resistance, mitochondrial morphology, and memory performance in a Drosophila melanogaster AD model. These data reveal an unexpected and detrimental role for specific HSP40s in promoting hallmarks of Abeta42 toxicity.
PXD027436	35377789	Proteasome complexes experience profound structural and functional rearrangements throughout mammalian spermatogenesis. 	Interactome analyses reveal profound proteasome structural and functional rearrangements throughout mammalian spermatogenesis	bottom-up proteomics, hydrogen-deuterium exchange, proteasome, spermatoproteasome, top-down proteomics	During spermatogenesis, spermatogonia undergo a series of mitotic and meiotic divisions on their path to spermatozoa. To achieve this, a succession of processes requiring high proteolytic activity are in part orchestrated by the proteasome. The spermatoproteasome (s20S) is specific to the developing gametes, in which the gamete-specific alpha4s subunit replaces the alpha4 isoform found in the constitutive proteasome (c20S). Although the s20S is conserved across species and was shown to be crucial for germ cell development, its mechanism, function, and structure remain incompletely characterized. Here, we used advanced mass spectrometry (MS) methods to map the composition of proteasome complexes and their interactomes throughout spermatogenesis. We observed that the s20S becomes highly activated as germ cells enter meiosis, mainly through a particularly extensive 19S activation and, to a lesser extent, PA200 binding. Additionally, the proteasome population shifts from c20S (98%) to s20S (>82 to 92%) during differentiation, presumably due to the shift from alpha4 to alpha4s expression. We demonstrated that s20S, but not c20S, interacts with components of the meiotic synaptonemal complex, where it may localize via association with the PI31 adaptor protein. In vitro, s20S preferentially binds to 19S and displays higher trypsin- and chymotrypsin-like activities, both with and without PA200 activation. Moreover, using MS methods to monitor protein dynamics, we identified significant differences in domain flexibility between alpha4 and alpha4s. We propose that these differences induced by alpha4s incorporation result in significant changes in the way the s20S interacts with its partners and dictate its role in germ cell differentiation.
PXD032013	35378131	Sas20 is a highly flexible starch-binding protein in the Ruminococcus bromii cell-surface amylosome. 	Sas20 is a highly flexible starch-binding protein in the Ruminococcus bromii cell-surface amylosome	R. bromii	Ruminococcus bromii is a keystone species in the human gut that has the rare ability to degrade dietary resistant starch (RS). This bacterium secretes a suite of starch-active proteins that work together within larger complexes called amylosomes that allow R. bromii to bind and degrade RS. Starch adherence system protein 20 (Sas20) is one of the more abundant proteins assembled within amylosomes, but little could be predicted about its molecular features based on amino acid sequence. Here, we performed a structure-function analysis of Sas20 and determined that it features two discrete starch-binding domains separated by a flexible linker. We show that Sas20 domain 1 contains an N-terminal beta-sandwich followed by a cluster of alpha-helices, and the nonreducing end of maltooligosaccharides can be captured between these structural features. Furthermore, the crystal structure of a close homolog of Sas20 domain 2 revealed a unique bilobed starch-binding groove that targets the helical alpha1,4-linked glycan chains found in amorphous regions of amylopectin and crystalline regions of amylose. Affinity PAGE and isothermal titration calorimetry demonstrated that both domains bind maltoheptaose and soluble starch with relatively high affinity (Kd <= 20 muM) but exhibit limited or no binding to cyclodextrins. Finally, small-angle X-ray scattering analysis of the individual and combined domains support that these structures are highly flexible, which may allow the protein to adopt conformations that enhance its starch-targeting efficiency. Taken together, we conclude that Sas20 binds distinct features within the starch granule, facilitating the ability of R. bromii to hydrolyze dietary RS.
PXD029783	35378132	Spirocyclic dimer SpiD7 activates the unfolded protein response to selectively inhibit growth and induce apoptosis of cancer cells. 	Spirocyclic dimer (SpiD7) activates unfolded protein response (UPR) to selectively inhibit growth and induce apoptosis of cancer cells	Unfolded Protein Response (UPR)	The unfolded protein response (UPR) is an adaptation mechanism activated to resolve transient accumulation of unfolded/misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum. Failure to resolve the transient accumulation of such proteins results in UPR-mediated programmed cell death. Loss of tumor suppressor gene or oncogene addiction in cancer cells can result in sustained higher basal UPR levels; however, it is not clear if these higher basal UPR levels in cancer cells can be exploited as a therapeutic strategy. We hypothesized that covalent modification of surface-exposed cysteine (SEC) residues could simulate unfolded/misfolded proteins to activate the UPR, and that higher basal UPR levels in cancer cells would provide the necessary therapeutic window. To test this hypothesis, here we synthesized analogs that can covalently modify multiple SEC residues and evaluated them as UPR activators. We identified a spirocyclic dimer, SpiD7, and evaluated its effects on UPR activation signals, that is, XBP1 splicing, phosphorylation of eIF2alpha, and a decrease in ATF 6 levels, in normal and cancer cells, which were further confirmed by RNA-Seq analyses. We found that SpiD7 selectively induced caspase-mediated apoptosis in cancer cells, whereas normal cells exhibited robust XBP1 splicing, indicating adaptation to stress. Furthermore, SpiD7 inhibited the growth of high-grade serous carcinoma cell lines ~3-15-fold more potently than immortalized fallopian tube epithelial (paired normal control) cells and reduced clonogenic growth of high-grade serous carcinoma cell lines. Our results suggest that induction of the UPR by covalent modification of SEC residues represents a cancer cell vulnerability and can be exploited to discover novel therapeutics.
PXD027920	35378291	Characterization of the Secretome, Transcriptome, and Proteome of Human beta Cell Line EndoC-betaH1. 	PSCK9 knockdown in EndoC-bH1 cells time course (DIA secretome time course)	EndoC-bH1, PCSK9	Early diabetes research is hampered by limited availability, variable quality, and instability of human pancreatic islets in culture. Little is known about the human beta cell secretome, and recent studies question translatability of rodent beta cell secretory profiles. Here, we verify representativeness of EndoC-betaH1, one of the most widely used human beta cell lines, as a translational human beta cell model based on omics and characterize the EndoC-betaH1 secretome. We profiled EndoC-betaH1 cells using RNA-seq, data-independent acquisition, and tandem mass tag proteomics of cell lysate. Omics profiles of EndoC-betaH1 cells were compared to human beta cells and insulinomas. Secretome composition was assessed by data-independent acquisition proteomics. Agreement between EndoC-betaH1 cells and primary adult human beta cells was ~90% for global omics profiles as well as for beta cell markers, transcription factors, and enzymes. Discrepancies in expression were due to elevated proliferation rate of EndoC-betaH1 cells compared to adult beta cells. Consistently, similarity was slightly higher with benign nonmetastatic insulinomas. EndoC-betaH1 secreted 783 proteins in untreated baseline state and 3135 proteins when stressed with nontargeting control siRNA, including known beta cell hormones INS, IAPP, and IGF2. Further, EndoC-betaH1 secreted proteins known to generate bioactive peptides such as granins and enzymes required for production of bioactive peptides. EndoC-betaH1 secretome contained an unexpectedly high proportion of predicted extracellular vesicle proteins. We believe that secretion of extracellular vesicles and bioactive peptides warrant further investigation with specialized proteomics workflows in future studies.
PXD032179	35378860	Plasma proteome profiling combined with clinical and genetic features reveals the pathophysiological characteristics of beta-thalassemia. 	Plasma proteome profiling combined with clinical and genetic features reveals pathophysiological characteristics of beta-thalassemia	biomarker, clinical data, codons 41/42 -TTCT, fetal hemoglobin, human plasma proteome, beta-thalassemia	The phenotype of beta-thalassemia underlies multigene interactions, making clinical stratification complicated. An increasing number of genetic modifiers affecting the disease severity have been identified, but are still unable to meet the demand of precision diagnosis. Here, we systematically conducted a comparative plasma proteomic profiling on patients with beta-thalassemia and healthy controls. Among 246 dysregulated proteins, 13 core protein signatures with excellent biomarker potential are proposed. The combination of proteome and patients' clinical data revealed patients with codons 41/42 -TTCT mutations have an elevated risk of higher iron burden, dysplasia, and osteoporosis than patients with other genotypes. Notably, 85 proteins correlating to fetal hemoglobin (Hb F) were identified, among which the abundance of 27 proteins may affect the transfusion burden in patients with beta-thalassemia. The current study thus provides protein signatures as potential diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic clues for beta-thalassemia.
PXD020000	35379199	Downregulation of KRAB zinc finger proteins in 5-fluorouracil resistant colorectal cancer cells. 	Downregulation of KRAB zinc finger proteins in 5-fluorouracil resistant colorectal cancer cells	5-FU, TMT, chemoresistance, colorectal cancer, protoemics	Radio-chemotherapy with 5-flu orouracil (5-FU) is the standard of care treatment for patients with colorectal cancer, but it is only effective for a third of them. Despite our understanding of the mechanism of action of 5-FU, drug resistance remains a significant limitation to the clinical use of 5-FU, as both intrinsic and acquired chemoresistance represents the major obstacles for the success of 5-FU-based chemotherapy. In order to identify the mechanism of acquired resistance, 5-FU chemoresistance was induced in CRC cell lines by passaging cells with increasing concentrations of 5-FU. To study global molecular changes, quantitative proteomics and transcriptomics analyses were performed on these cell lines, comparing the resistant cells as well as the effect of chemo and radiotherapy. Interestingly, a very high proportion of downregulated genes were annotated as transcription factors coding for Kruppel-associated box (KRAB) domain-containing zinc-finger proteins (KZFPs), the largest family of transcriptional repressors. Among nearly 350 KRAB-ZFPs, almost a quarter were downregulated after the induction of a 5-FU-resistance including a common one between the three CRC cell lines, ZNF649, whose role is still unknown. To confirm the observations of the proteomic and transcriptomic approaches, the abundance of 20 different KZFPs and control mRNAs was validated by RT-qPCR. In fact, several KZFPs were no longer detectable using qPCR in cell lines resistant to 5-FU, and the KZFPs that were downregulated only in one or two cell lines showed similar pattern of expression as measured by the omics approaches. This proteomic, transcriptomic and genomic analysis of intrinsic and acquired resistance highlights a possible new mechanism involved in the cellular adaptation to 5-FU and therefore identifies potential new therapeutic targets to overcome this resistance.
PXD031503	35379256	TMT-based proteomic analysis reveals integrins involved in the synergistic infection of reticuloendotheliosis virus and avian leukosis virus subgroup J. 	TMT-based proteomic analysis reveals integrins involved in the synergistic infection of reticuloendotheliosis virus and avian leukosis virus subgroup J	TMT-based proteomic analysis, avian leukosis virus subgroup J, reticuloendotheliosis virus	BACKGROUND: Co-infection with the avian leukosis virus subgroup J (ALV-J) and the reticuloendotheliosis virus (REV) increases mutual viral replication, causing a more serious pathogenic effect by accelerating the progression of neoplasia and extending the tumor spectrum. However, the molecular mechanism underlying the synergistic replication of ALV-J and REV remains unclear. RESULTS: Here, we performed this study to compare the differentially expressed proteins among CEF cells infected with ALV-J, REV or both at the optimal synergistic infection time using TMT-based quantitative proteomics. We identified a total of 719 (292 upregulated and 427 downregulated) and 64 (35 upregulated and 29 downregulated) proteins by comparing co-infecting both viruses with monoinfecting ALV-J and REV, respectively. GO annotation and KEGG pathway analysis showed the differentially expressed proteins participated in virus-vector interaction, biological adhesion and immune response pathways in the synergistic actions of ALV-J and REV at the protein levels. Among the differentially expressed proteins, a large number of integrins were inhibited or increased in the co-infection group. Further, eight integrins, including ITGalpha1, ITGalpha3, ITGalpha5, ITGalpha6, ITGalpha8, ITGalpha9, ITGalpha11 and ITGbeta3, were validated in CEF cells by qRT-PCR or western blot. CONCLUSIONS: These findings proved that integrins may be key regulators in the mechanism of synergistic infection of REV and ALV-J, which will provide more insight into the pathogenesis of synergism of REV and ALV-J at protein level.
PXD021697	35379280	Proteomic landscape subtype and clinical prognosis of patients with the cognitive impairment by Japanese encephalitis infection. 	Proteomic landscape and clinical prognosis of Japanese encephalitis patients with cognitive impairment phenotype	Cognitive impairment, Japanese encephalitis, Quantitative proteomics, clinical prognosis	BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairment is one of the primary sequelae affecting the quality of life of patients with Japanese encephalitis (JE). The clinical treatment is mainly focused on life support, lacking of targeted treatment strategy. METHODS: A cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteomic profiling study was performed including 26 patients with JE in Gansu province of China from June 2017 to October 2018 and 33 other concurrent hospitalized patients who were excluded central nervous system (CNS) organic or CNS infection diseases. The clinical and proteomics data of patients with JE were undergoing combined analysis for the first time. RESULTS: Two subtypes of JE associated with significantly different prognoses were identified. Compared to JE1, the JE2 subtype is associated with lower overall survival rate and a higher risk of cognitive impairment. The percentages of neutrophils (N%), lymphocyte (L%), and monocytes (M%) decreased in JE2 significantly. CONCLUSIONS: The differences in proteomic landscape between JE subgroups have specificity for the prognosis of cognitive impairment. The data also provided some potential target proteins for treatment of cognitive impairments caused by JE. Trial registration ChiCTR, ChiCTR2000030499. Registered 1st June 2017, http://www.medresman.org.cn/pub/cn/proj/projectshow.aspx?proj=6333.
PXD031540	35379800	Auxiliary ATP binding sites support DNA unwinding by RecBCD. 	Indentification of RecBCD Auxiliary ATP binding	AzidoATP, AzidoAdenosine, RecBCD	The RecBCD helicase initiates double-stranded break repair in bacteria by processively unwinding DNA with a rate approaching ~1,600 bp.s(-1), but the mechanism enabling such a fast rate is unknown. Employing a wide range of methodologies - including equilibrium and time-resolved binding experiments, ensemble and single-molecule unwinding assays, and crosslinking followed by mass spectrometry - we reveal the existence of auxiliary binding sites in the RecC subunit, where ATP binds with lower affinity and distinct chemical interactions as compared to the known catalytic sites. The essentiality and functionality of these sites are demonstrated by their impact on the survival of E.coli after exposure to damage-inducing radiation. We propose a model by which RecBCD achieves its optimized unwinding rate, even when ATP is scarce, by using the auxiliary binding sites to increase the flux of ATP to its catalytic sites.
PXD029419	35379855	Proteomic analysis of the periodontal pathogen Prevotella intermedia secretomes in biofilm and planktonic lifestyles. 	Proteomics of the periodontal pathogen Prevotella intermedia secretome in biofilm and planktonic lifestyles	Prevotella, biofilm, planktonic, secretome, virulence	Prevotella intermedia is an important species associated with periodontitis. Despite the remarkable clinical significance, little is known about the molecular basis for its virulence. The aim of this study was to characterize the secretome of P. intermedia in biofilm and planktonic life mode. The biofilm secretome showed 109 proteins while the planktonic secretome showed 136 proteins. The biofilm and the planktonic secretomes contained 17 and 33 signal-peptide bearing proteins, 13 and 18 lipoproteins, respectively. Superoxide reductase, sensor histidine kinase, C40 family peptidase, elongation factor Tu, threonine synthase etc. were unique to biofilm. Of the ~ 30 proteins with predicted virulence potential from biofilm and planktonic secretomes, only 6 were common between the two groups, implying large differences between biofilm and planktonic modes of P. intermedia. From Gene Ontology biofilm secretome displayed a markedly higher percent proteins compared to planktonic secretome in terms of cellular amino acid metabolic process, nitrogen compound metabolic process etc. Inflammatory cytokine profile analysis revealed that only the biofilm secretome, not the planktonic one, induced important cytokines such as MIP-1alpha/MIP-1beta, IL-1beta, and IL-8. In conclusion, the revealed differences in the protein profiles of P. intermedia biofilm and planktonic secretomes may trigger further questions about molecular mechanisms how this species exerts its virulence potential in the oral cavity.
PXD031683	35379950	Disease-associated KBTBD4 mutations in medulloblastoma elicit neomorphic ubiquitylation activity to promote CoREST degradation. 	Disease-associated KBTBD4 mutations in medulloblastoma elicit neomorphic ubiquitylation activity to promote CoREST degradationDisease-associated KBTBD4 mutations in medulloblastoma elicit neomorphic ubiquitylation activity to promote CoREST degradation	CoREST, Epigenetic remodelling, KBTBD4, Medulloblastoma, ubiquitin	Medulloblastoma is the most common malignant brain tumour in children. Genomic studies have identified distinct disease subgroups: wnt/wingless (WNT), sonic hedgehog (SHH), and non-WNT/non-SHH, comprising group 3 and group 4. Alterations in WNT and SHH signalling form the pathogenetic basis for their subgroups, whereas those for non-WNT/non-SHH tumours remain largely elusive. Recent analyses have revealed recurrent in-frame insertions in the E3 ubiquitin ligase adaptor Kelch Repeat and BTB Domain Containing 4 (KBTBD4) in cases of group 3/4 medulloblastoma. Critically, group 3/4 tumours with KBTBD4 mutations typically lack other gene-specific alterations, such as MYC amplification, indicating KBTBD4 insertion mutations as the primary genetic driver. Delineating the role of KBTBD4 mutations thus offers significant opportunities to understand tumour pathogenesis and to exploit the underpinning mechanisms therapeutically. Here, we show a novel mechanism in cancer pathogenesis whereby indel mutations in KBTBD4 drive its recognition of neo-substrates for degradation. We observe that KBTBD4 mutants promote the recruitment and ubiquitylation of the REST Corepressor (CoREST), which forms a complex to modulate chromatin accessibility and transcriptional programmes. The degradation of CoREST promoted by KBTBD4 mutation diverts epigenetic programmes inducing significant alterations in transcription to promote increased stemness of cancer cells. Transcriptional analysis of >200 human group 3 and 4 medulloblastomas by RNA-seq, highlights the presence of CoREST and stem-like signatures in tumours with KBTBD4 mutations, which extend to a further sub-set of non-mutant tumours, suggesting CoREST alterations as a novel pathogenetic mechanism of wide relevance in groups 3 and 4. Our findings uncover KBTBD4 mutation as a novel driver of epigenetic reprogramming in non-WNT/non-SHH medulloblastoma, establish a novel mode of tumorigenesis through gain-of-function mutations in ubiquitin ligases (neo-substrate recruitment) and identify both mutant KBTBD4 and CoREST complexes as new druggable targets for improved tumour-specific therapies.
PXD027140	35382111	Compositional and toxicological investigation of pooled venom from farm-raised Naja atra. 	Compositional and toxicological investigation of pooled venom from farm-raised Naja atra of Hunan China	Naja atra venom, Nano LC-ESI-MS/MS, Uniprot	Background: Naja atra is a venomous snake species medically relevant in China. In the current study, we evaluated the composition and toxicological profile of venom collected from farm-raised N. atra. Methods: Venom was collected from third-generation captive bred N. atra on a snake farm in Hunan Province, China. The venom was analyzed using sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and nano-liquid chromatography with electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. In addition, hemolytic activity, median lethal dose, serum biochemical and histopathological parameters were accessed. Results: N. atra venom proteome was dominated by phospholipase A2 (46.5%) and three-finger toxins (41.4 %), and a set of common low relative abundance proteins, including cysteine-rich secretory proteins (4.7%), NGF-beta (2.4%), snake venom metalloproteinase (1.5%), glutathione peroxidase (0.6%), vespryn (0.3%), and 5'-nucleotidases (0.2%) were also found. Furthermore, the venom exhibited direct hemolytic activity, neurotoxicity, myotoxicity, and high lethal potency in mice, with a subcutaneous median lethal dose of 1.02 mg/kg. Histopathological analysis and serum biochemical tests revealed that venom caused acute hepatic, pulmonary and renal injury in mice. Conclusion: This study revealed the composition and toxicity of venom collected from farm-raised N. atra, thereby providing a reference for the analysis of venom samples collected from captive-born venomous snakes in the future.
PXD029845	35383147	Proteomic profiling of postmortem prefrontal cortex tissue of suicide completers. 	Proteomic profiling of postmortem prefrontal cortex tissue of suicide completers	Tandem mass tag, postmortem brain, suicide	Suicide is a leading cause of death worldwide, presenting a serious public health problem. We aimed to investigate the biological basis of suicide completion using proteomics on postmortem brain tissue. Thirty-six postmortem brain samples (23 suicide completers and 13 controls) were collected. We evaluated the proteomic profile in the prefrontal cortex (Broadmann area 9, 10) using tandem mass tag-based quantification with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Bioinformatics tools were used to elucidate the biological mechanisms related to suicide. Subgroup analysis was conducted to identify common differentially expressed proteins among clinically different groups. Of 9801 proteins identified, 295 were differentially expressed between groups. Suicide completion samples were mostly enriched in the endocannabinoid and apoptotic pathways (CAPNS1, CSNK2B, PTP4A2). Among the differentially expressed proteins, GSTT1 was identified as a potential biomarker among suicide completers with psychiatric disorders. Our findings suggest that the previously under-recognized endocannabinoid system and apoptotic processes are highly involved in suicide.
PXD029542	35383169	Structural basis for the mechanisms of human presequence protease conformational switch and substrate recognition. 	Structural basis for the mechanisms of human presequence protease conformational  switch and substrate recognition	Amyloid peptide, HDXMS, Presequence protease, cryoEM	Presequence protease (PreP), a 117 kDa mitochondrial M16C metalloprotease vital for mitochondrial proteostasis, degrades presequence peptides cleaved off from nuclear-encoded proteins and other aggregation-prone peptides, such as amyloid beta (Abeta). PreP structures have only been determined in a closed conformation; thus, the mechanisms of substrate binding and selectivity remain elusive. Here, we leverage advanced vitrification techniques to overcome the preferential denaturation of one of two ~55 kDa homologous domains of PreP caused by air-water interface adsorption. Thereby, we elucidate cryoEM structures of three apo-PreP open states along with Abeta- and citrate synthase presequence-bound PreP at 3.3-4.6 Aa resolution. Together with integrative biophysical and pharmacological approaches, these structures reveal the key stages of the PreP catalytic cycle and how the binding of substrates or PreP inhibitor drives a rigid body motion of the protein for substrate binding and catalysis. Together, our studies provide key mechanistic insights into M16C metalloproteases for future therapeutic innovations.
PXD031324	35385313	FGF21 modulates mitochondrial stress response in cardiomyocytes only under mild mitochondrial dysfunction. 	FGF21 modulates mitochondrial stress response in cardiomyocytes only under mild mitochondrial dysfunction	CLPP, Cardiomyopathy, FGF21, Mitochondria, OXPHOS	The mitochondrial integrated stress response (mitoISR) has emerged as a major adaptive pathway to respiratory chain deficiency, but both the tissue specificity of its regulation, and how mitoISR adapts to different levels of mitochondrial dysfunction are largely unknown. Here, we report that diverse levels of mitochondrial cardiomyopathy activate mitoISR, including high production of FGF21, a cytokine with both paracrine and endocrine function, shown to be induced by respiratory chain dysfunction. Although being fully dispensable for the cell-autonomous and systemic responses to severe mitochondrial cardiomyopathy, in the conditions of mild-to-moderate cardiac OXPHOS dysfunction, FGF21 regulates a portion of mitoISR. In the absence of FGF21, a large part of the metabolic adaptation to mitochondrial dysfunction (one-carbon metabolism, transsulfuration, and serine and proline biosynthesis) is strongly blunted, independent of the primary mitoISR activator ATF4. Collectively, our work highlights the complexity of mitochondrial stress responses by revealing the importance of the tissue specificity and dose dependency of mitoISR.
PXD029379	35385316	Integrative molecular roadmap for direct conversion of fibroblasts into myocytes and myogenic progenitor cells. 	Label-free quantification (LFQ) analysis on skeletal muscle stem cells and reprogrammed skeletal muscle stem and progenitor cells	LFQ, Reprogramming, Satellite cells, Skeletal muscle	Transient MyoD overexpression in concert with small molecule treatment reprograms mouse fibroblasts into induced myogenic progenitor cells (iMPCs). However, the molecular landscape and mechanisms orchestrating this cellular conversion remain unknown. Here, we undertook an integrative multiomics approach to delineate the process of iMPC reprogramming in comparison to myogenic transdifferentiation mediated solely by MyoD. Using transcriptomics, proteomics, and genome-wide chromatin accessibility assays, we unravel distinct molecular trajectories that govern the two processes. Notably, only iMPC reprogramming is characterized by gradual up-regulation of muscle stem cell markers, unique signaling pathways, and chromatin remodelers in conjunction with exclusive chromatin opening in core myogenic promoters. In addition, we determine that the Notch pathway is indispensable for iMPC formation and self-renewal and further use the Notch ligand Dll1 to homogeneously propagate iMPCs. Collectively, this study charts divergent molecular blueprints for myogenic transdifferentiation or reprogramming and underpins the heightened capacity of iMPCs for capturing myogenesis ex vivo.
PXD013952	35385329	Control of coronary vascular resistance by eicosanoids via a novel GPCR. 	Bidirectional Control of Coronary Vascular Resistance by Eicosanoids via a Novel GPCR	Cardiovascular disease, G-coupled receptor 39, eicosanoids, microvascular smooth muscle cell, photoactive cross-linking	Arachidonic acid metabolites epoxyeicosatrienoates (EETs) and hydroxyeicosatetraenoates (HETEs) are important regulators of myocardial blood flow and coronary vascular resistance (CVR), but their mechanisms of action are not fully understood. We applied a chemoproteomics strategy using a clickable photoaffinity probe to identify G protein-coupled receptor 39 (GPR39) as a microvascular smooth muscle cell (mVSMC) receptor selective for two endogenous eicosanoids, 15-HETE and 14,15-EET, which act on the receptor to oppose each other's activity. The former increases mVSMC intracellular calcium via GPR39 and augments coronary microvascular resistance, and the latter inhibits these actions. Furthermore, we find that the efficacy of both ligands is potentiated by zinc acting as an allosteric modulator. Measurements of coronary perfusion pressure (CPP) in GPR39-null hearts using the Langendorff preparation indicate the receptor senses these eicosanoids to regulate microvascular tone. These results implicate GPR39 as an eicosanoid receptor and key regulator of myocardial tissue perfusion. Our findings will have a major impact on understanding the roles of eicosanoids in cardiovascular physiology and disease and provide an opportunity for the development of novel GPR39-targeting therapies for cardiovascular disease.
PXD031012	35385738	ALS-associated KIF5A mutations abolish autoinhibition resulting in a toxic gain of function. 	ALS-Associated KIF5A Mutations Abolish Autoinhibition Resulting in a Toxic Gain of Function	ALS, KIF5A, interactors	Understanding the pathogenic mechanisms of disease mutations is critical to advancing treatments. ALS-associated mutations in the gene encoding the microtubule motor KIF5A result in skipping of exon 27 (KIF5A(DeltaExon27)) and the encoding of a protein with a novel 39 amino acid residue C-terminal sequence. Here, we report that expression of ALS-linked mutant KIF5A results in dysregulated motor activity, cellular mislocalization, altered axonal transport, and decreased neuronal survival. Single-molecule analysis revealed that the altered C terminus of mutant KIF5A results in a constitutively active state. Furthermore, mutant KIF5A possesses altered protein and RNA interactions and its expression results in altered gene expression/splicing. Taken together, our data support the hypothesis that causative ALS mutations result in a toxic gain of function in the intracellular motor KIF5A that disrupts intracellular trafficking and neuronal homeostasis.
PXD024622	35386456	Proteomics as a tool to gain next level insights into photo-crosslinkable biopolymer modifications. 	Proteomics as a Tool to Gain Next Level Insights into Biopolymer Modifications	(photo-crosslinkable) biomaterials, 3D modeling of proteins, biomaterial characterization, chemical modifications, localization of functionalizations	The distribution of photo-crosslinkable moieties onto a protein backbone can affect a biomaterial's crosslinking behavior, and therefore also its mechanical and biological properties. A profound insight in this respect is essential for biomaterials exploited in tissue engineering and regenerative medicine. In the present work, photo-crosslinkable moieties have been introduced on the primary amine groups of: (i) a recombinant collagen peptide (RCPhC1) with a known amino acid (AA) sequence, and (ii) bovine skin collagen (COL BS) with an unknown AA sequence. The degree of substitution (DS) was quantified with two conventional techniques: an ortho-phthalic dialdehyde (OPA) assay and (1)H NMR spectroscopy. However, neither of both provides information on the exact type and location of the modified AAs. Therefore, for the first time, proteomic analysis was evaluated herein as a tool to identify functionalized AAs as well as the exact position of photo-crosslinkable moieties along the AA sequence, thereby enabling an in-depth, unprecedented characterization of functionalized photo-crosslinkable biopolymers. Moreover, our strategy enabled to visualize the spatial distribution of the modifications within the overall structure of the protein. Proteomics has proven to provide unprecedented insight in the distribution of photo-crosslinkable moieties along the protein backbone, undoubtedly contributing to superior functional biomaterial design to serve regenerative medicine.
PXD031710	35387987	Mitochondrially targeted tamoxifen alleviates markers of obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus in mice. 	Mitochondrially targeted tamoxifen alleviates markers of obesity and type 2 diabetes mellitus in mice	mice, mitochodnria, obesity, tamoxifen	Type 2 diabetes mellitus represents a major health problem with increasing prevalence worldwide. Limited efficacy of current therapies has prompted a search for novel therapeutic options. Here we show that treatment of pre-diabetic mice with mitochondrially targeted tamoxifen, a potential anti-cancer agent with senolytic activity, improves glucose tolerance and reduces body weight with most pronounced reduction of visceral adipose tissue due to reduced food intake, suppressed adipogenesis and elimination of senescent cells. Glucose-lowering effect of mitochondrially targeted tamoxifen is linked to improvement of type 2 diabetes mellitus-related hormones profile and is accompanied by reduced lipid accumulation in liver. Lower senescent cell burden in various tissues, as well as its inhibitory effect on pre-adipocyte differentiation, results in lower level of circulating inflammatory mediators that typically enhance metabolic dysfunction. Targeting senescence with mitochodrially targeted tamoxifen thus represents an approach to the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus and its related comorbidities, promising a complex impact on senescence-related pathologies in aging population of patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus with potential translation into the clinic.
PXD027401	35387990	Activation of the essential kinase PDK1 by phosphoinositide-driven trans-autophosphorylation. 	Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange of PDK1	HDX-MS PDK1 HDX	3-phosphoinositide-dependent kinase 1 (PDK1) is an essential serine/threonine protein kinase, which plays a crucial role in cell growth and proliferation. It is often referred to as a 'master' kinase due to its ability to activate at least 23 downstream protein kinases implicated in various signaling pathways. In this study, we have elucidated the mechanism of phosphoinositide-driven PDK1 auto-activation. We show that PDK1 trans-autophosphorylation is mediated by a PIP3-mediated face-to-face dimer. We report regulatory motifs in the kinase-PH interdomain linker that allosterically activate PDK1 autophosphorylation via a linker-swapped dimer mechanism. Finally, we show that PDK1 is autoinhibited by its PH domain and that positive cooperativity of PIP3 binding drives switch-like activation of PDK1. These results imply that the PDK1-mediated activation of effector kinases, including Akt, PKC, Sgk, S6K and RSK, many of whom are not directly regulated by phosphoinositides, is also likely to be dependent on PIP3 or PI(3,4)P2.
PXD017849	35390676	SSBP1 drives high fructose-induced glomerular podocyte ferroptosis via activating DNA-PK/p53 pathway. 	High Fructose-Driven Epigenetic and Metabolic Reprogramming in Glomerular Podocyte	Rat, epigenetic mechanism., high-fructose diet, iTRAQ, metabolic reprogramming, mitochondria dysfunction, podocyte injury	High fructose consumption is a significant risking factor for glomerular podocyte injury. However, the causes of high fructose-induced glomerular podocyte injury are still unclear. In this study, we reported a novel mechanism by which high fructose induced ferroptosis, a newly form of programmed cell death, in glomerular podocyte injury. We performed quantitative proteomic analysis in glomeruli of high fructose-fed rats to identify key regulating proteins involved in glomerular injury, and found that mitochondrial single-strand DNA-binding protein 1 (SSBP1) was markedly upregulated. Depletion of SSBP1 could alleviate high fructose-induced ferroptotic cell death in podocytes. Subsequently, we found that SSBP1 positively regulated a transcription factor p53 by interacting with DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) and p53 to drive ferroptosis in high fructose-induced podocyte injury. Mechanically, SSBP1 activated DNA-PK to induce p53 phosphorylation at serine 15 (S15) to promote the nuclear accumulation of p53, and thereby inhibited expression of ferroptosis regulator solute carrier family 7 member 11 (SLC7A11) in high fructose-exposed podocytes. Natural antioxidant pterostilbene was showed to downregulate SSBP1 and then inhibit DNA-PK/p53 pathway in its alleviation of high fructose-induced glomerular podocyte ferroptosis and injury. This study identified SSBP1 as a novel intervention target against high fructose-induced podocyte ferroptosis and suggested that the suppression of SSBP1 by pterostilbene may be a potential therapy for the treatment of podocyte ferroptosis in glomerular injury.
PXD028708	35391557	Prolonged exposure to simulated microgravity promotes stemness impairing morphological, metabolic and migratory profile of pancreatic cancer cells: a comprehensive proteomic, lipidomic and transcriptomic analysis. 	Prolonged exposure to simulated microgravity promotes stemness impairing morphological, metabolic and migratory profile of pancreatic cancer cells: a comprehensive proteomic, lipidomic and trascriptomic analysis	Cancer stem cells, Microgravity, lipidomic, metabolism	BACKGROUND: The impact of the absence of gravity on cancer cells is of great interest, especially today that space is more accessible than ever. Despite advances, few and contradictory data are available mainly due to different setup, experimental design and time point analyzed. METHODS: Exploiting a Random Positioning Machine, we dissected the effects of long-term exposure to simulated microgravity (SMG) on pancreatic cancer cells performing proteomic, lipidomic and transcriptomic analysis at 1, 7 and 9 days. RESULTS: Our results indicated that SMG affects cellular morphology through a time-dependent activation of Actin-based motility via Rho and Cdc42 pathways leading to actin rearrangement, formation of 3D spheroids and enhancement of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Bioinformatic analysis reveals that SMG may activates ERK5/NF-kappaB/IL-8 axis that triggers the expansion of cancer stem cells with an increased migratory capability. These cells, to remediate energy stress and apoptosis activation, undergo a metabolic reprogramming orchestrated by HIF-1alpha and PI3K/Akt pathways that upregulate glycolysis and impair beta-oxidation, suggesting a de novo synthesis of triglycerides for the membrane lipid bilayer formation. CONCLUSIONS: SMG revolutionizes tumor cell behavior and metabolism leading to the acquisition of an aggressive and metastatic stem cell-like phenotype. These results dissect the time-dependent cellular alterations induced by SMG and pave the base for altered gravity conditions as new anti-cancer technology.
PXD022508	35391737	Acetate Degradation at Low pH by the Moderately Acidophilic Sulfate Reducer Acididesulfobacillus acetoxydans gen. nov. sp. nov. 	Desulfobacillus biomass profiling grown at pH 3.9 and pH 5.0	Desulfobacillus	In acid drainage environments, biosulfidogenesis by sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) attenuates the extreme conditions by enabling the precipitation of metals as their sulfides, and the neutralization of acidity through proton consumption. So far, only a handful of moderately acidophilic SRB species have been described, most of which are merely acidotolerant. Here, a novel species within a novel genus of moderately acidophilic SRB is described, Acididesulfobacillus acetoxydans gen. nov. sp. nov. strain INE, able to grow at pH 3.8. Bioreactor studies with strain INE at optimum (5.0) and low (3.9) pH for growth showed that strain INE alkalinized its environment, and that this was more pronounced at lower pH. These studies also showed the capacity of strain INE to completely oxidize organic acids to CO2, which is uncommon among acidophilic SRB. Since organic acids are mainly in their protonated form at low pH, which increases their toxicity, their complete oxidation may be an acid stress resistance mechanism. Comparative proteogenomic and membrane lipid analysis further indicated that the presence of saturated ether-bound lipids in the membrane, and their relative increase at lower pH, was a protection mechanism against acid stress. Interestingly, other canonical acid stress resistance mechanisms, such as a Donnan potential and increased active charge transport, did not appear to be active.
PXD031291	35392111	Marek's Disease Virus and Reticuloendotheliosis Virus Coinfection Enhances Viral Replication and Alters Cellular Protein Profiles. 	TMT-based quantitative Proteomics Analysis of CEF cells coinfected with Marek's disease virus and reticuloendotheliosis virus	Marek's disease virus, TMT, coinfection, reticuloendotheliosis virus	Coinfection with Marek's disease virus (MDV) and reticuloendotheliosis virus (REV) causes synergistic pathogenic effects and serious losses to the poultry industry. However, whether there is a synergism between the two viruses in viral replication and the roles of host factors in regulating MDV and REV coinfection remains elusive. In this study, we found that MDV and REV coinfection increased viral replication in coinfected cells as compared to a single infection in a limited period. Further, we explore the host cell responses to MDV and REV coinfection using tandem mass tag (TMT) peptide labeling coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Compared with MDV/REV-infected cells, 38 proteins increased (fold change > 1.2) and 60 decreased (fold change < 0.83) their abundance in MDV and REV coinfected cells. Differentially accumulated proteins (DAPs) were involved in important biological processes involved in the immune system process, cell adhesion and migration, cellular processes, and multicellular organismal systems. STRING analysis found that IRF7, MX1, TIMP3, and AKT1 may be associated with MDV and REV synergistic replication in chicken embryo fibroblasts (CEFs). Western blotting analysis showed that the selected DAPs were identical to the quantitative proteomics data. Taken together, we verified that MDV and REV can synergistically replicate in coinfected cells and revealed the host molecules involved in it. However, the synergistic pathogenesis of MDV and REV needs to be further studied.
PXD045630	35393418	Glyco-Decipher enables glycan database-independent peptide matching and in-depth characterization of site-specific N-glycosylation. 	Human serum glycoproteome - Glyco-Decipher	Glyco-Proteomics	Glycopeptides with unusual glycans or poor peptide backbone fragmentation in tandem mass spectrometry are unaccounted for in typical site-specific glycoproteomics analysis and thus remain unidentified. Here, we develop a glycoproteomics tool, Glyco-Decipher, to address these issues. Glyco-Decipher conducts glycan database-independent peptide matching and exploits the fragmentation pattern of shared peptide backbones in glycopeptides to improve the spectrum interpretation. We benchmark Glyco-Decipher on several large-scale datasets, demonstrating that it identifies more peptide-spectrum matches than Byonic, MSFragger-Glyco, StrucGP and pGlyco 3.0, with a 33.5%-178.5% increase in the number of identified glycopeptide spectra. The database-independent and unbiased profiling of attached glycans enables the discovery of 164 modified glycans in mouse tissues, including glycans with chemical or biological modifications. By enabling in-depth characterization of site-specific protein glycosylation, Glyco-Decipher is a promising tool for advancing glycoproteomics analysis in biological research.
PXD030906	35393429	Collateral sensitivity to pleuromutilins in vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium. 	Evolutionary collateral sensitivity to pleuromutilins in vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium	collateral sensitivity,vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium,pleuromutilin	The acquisition of resistance to one antibiotic sometimes leads to collateral sensitivity to a second antibiotic. Here, we show that vancomycin resistance in Enterococcus faecium is associated with a remarkable increase in susceptibility to pleuromutilin antibiotics (such as lefamulin), which target the bacterial ribosome. The trade-off between vancomycin and pleuromutilins is mediated by epistasis between the van gene cluster and msrC, encoding an ABC-F protein that protects bacterial ribosomes from antibiotic targeting. In mouse models of vancomycin-resistant E. faecium colonization and septicemia, pleuromutilin treatment reduces colonization and improves survival more effectively than standard therapy (linezolid). Our findings suggest that pleuromutilins may be useful for the treatment of vancomycin-resistant E. faecium infections.
PXD031097	35393494	Oligomerization, trans-reduction, and instability of mutant NOTCH3 in inherited vascular dementia. 	Oligomerization, trans-reduction, and instability of mutant NOTCH3 in inherited vascular dementia	CADASIL, NOTCH3, disulfides	Cerebral small vessel disease (SVD) is a prevalent disease of aging and a major contributor to stroke and dementia. The most commonly inherited SVD, CADASIL, is caused by dominantly acting cysteine-altering mutations in NOTCH3. These mutations change the number of cysteines from an even to an odd number, but the impact of these alterations on NOTCH3 protein structure remain unclear. Here, we prepared wildtype and four mutant recombinant NOTCH3 protein fragments to analyze the impact of CADASIL mutations on oligomerization, thiol status, and protein stability. Using gel electrophoresis, tandem MS/MS, and collision-induced unfolding, we find that NOTCH3 mutant proteins feature increased amounts of inappropriate disulfide bridges, reduced cysteines, and structural instability. Presence of a second protein factor, an N-terminal fragment of NOTCH3 (NTF), is capable of further altering disulfide statuses of both wildtype and mutant proteins, leading to increased numbers of reduced cysteines and further destabilization of NOTCH3 structure. In sum, these studies identify specific cysteine residues alterations and quaternary structure induced by CADASIL mutations in NOTCH3; further, we validate that reductive factors alter the structure and stability of this small vessel disease protein.
PXD026880	35393574	Nascent alt-protein chemoproteomics reveals a pre-60S assembly checkpoint inhibitor. 	Nascent alt-protein chemoproteomics reveals a repressor of ribosome biogenesisNascent alt-protein chemoproteomics reveals a repressor of pre-60S assembly	human HEK 293T	Many unannotated microproteins and alternative proteins (alt-proteins) are coencoded with canonical proteins, but few of their functions are known. Motivated by the hypothesis that alt-proteins undergoing regulated synthesis could play important cellular roles, we developed a chemoproteomic pipeline to identify nascent alt-proteins in human cells. We identified 22 actively translated alt-proteins or N-terminal extensions, one of which is post-transcriptionally upregulated by DNA damage stress. We further defined a nucleolar, cell-cycle-regulated alt-protein that negatively regulates assembly of the pre-60S ribosomal subunit (MINAS-60). Depletion of MINAS-60 increases the amount of cytoplasmic 60S ribosomal subunit, upregulating global protein synthesis and cell proliferation. Mechanistically, MINAS-60 represses the rate of late-stage pre-60S assembly and export to the cytoplasm. Together, these results implicate MINAS-60 as a potential checkpoint inhibitor of pre-60S assembly and demonstrate that chemoproteomics enables hypothesis generation for uncharacterized alt-proteins.
PXD033485	35393611	Dissociation of beta2m from MHC class I triggers formation of noncovalent transient heavy chain dimers. 	Dissociation of beta2m from MHC Class I triggers formation of noncovalent, transient heavy chain dimers	HLA-A, MHC class I, dimerization, native MS	At the plasma membrane of mammalian cells, major histocompatibility complex class I molecules (MHC-I) present antigenic peptides to cytotoxic T cells. Following the loss of the peptide and the light chain beta-2 microglobulin (beta2m, encoded by B2M), the resulting free heavy chains (FHCs) can associate into homotypic complexes in the plasma membrane. Here, we investigate the stoichiometry and dynamics of MHC-I FHCs assemblies by combining a micropattern assay with fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) and with single-molecule co-tracking. We identify non-covalent MHC-I FHC dimers, with dimerization mediated by the alpha3 domain, as the prevalent species at the plasma membrane, leading a moderate decrease in the diffusion coefficient. MHC-I FHC dimers show increased tendency to cluster into higher order oligomers as concluded from an increased immobile fraction with higher single-molecule colocalization. In vitro studies with isolated proteins in conjunction with molecular docking and dynamics simulations suggest that in the complexes, the alpha3 domain of one FHC binds to another FHC in a manner similar to that seen for beta2m.
PXD030233	35394836	Reductive site-selective atypical C,Z-type/N2-C2 cleavage allows C-terminal protein amidation. 	Identification of di-Boron cleavage events at Dha residues on recombinant protein in e.coli lysate	Dha, amidated C-term, chemical cleavage	Biomolecule environments can enhance chemistries with the potential to mediate and modulate self-modification (e.g., self-cleavage). While these enhanced modes are found in certain biomolecules (e.g., RNA ribozymes), it is more rare in proteins. Targeted proteolytic cleavage is vital to physiology, biotechnology, and even emerging therapy. Yet, purely chemically induced methods for the site-selective cleavage of proteins remain scarce. Here, as a proof of principle, we designed and tested a system intended to combine protein-enhanced chemistry with tag modification to enable synthetic reductive protein chemistries promoted by diboron. This reductively driven, single-electron chemistry now enables an operationally simple, site-selective cleavage protocol for proteins directed to readily accessible dehydroalanine (Dha) residues as tags under aqueous conditions and in cell lysates. In this way, a mild, efficient, enzyme-free method now allows not only precise chemical proteolysis but also simultaneous use in the removal of affinity tags and/or protein-terminus editing to create altered N- and C-termini such as protein amidation (-CONH2).
PXD027317	35395531	Comparative proteomics revealed duodenal metabolic function associated with feed efficiency in slow-growing chicken. 	comparative proteomic profile in duodenum sample of male slow-growing chicken	Label-free LC-MSMS, duodenum, feed efficiency, slow-growing chicken	The Korat chicken (KR), developed in Thailand, is a slow-growing breed developed as an alternative breed for Thai chicken producers. The growing interest in slow-growing chicken meat, due to its unique taste, distinct texture, health benefits, and higher broiler welfare have led to higher market demand for KR. However, its low feed efficiency (FE) has a significant negative impact on farm profitability. Understanding the molecular mechanism regulating FE allows for designing a suitable selection program and contributing to breeding more efficient chicken for poultry production. Thus, the objective of our study was to investigate the proteome differences and possible pathways associated with FE in male KR using a label-free quantitative proteomic approach. Seventy-five KR males were individually evaluated for FE, and duodenum samples from 6 animals (3 high-FE and 3 low-FE chickens) were collected at 10 wk of age for differential abundant proteins (DAPs), protein networks, functional enrichment, and pathway analyses. In this study, we found 40 DAPs significantly associated with FE pathways, including glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, peroxisome, oxidative phosphorylation, tight junction, and cysteine and methionine metabolism. Thus, variations in observed DAPs or genes related to DAPs could be interesting biomarker candidates for selection for higher feed utilization efficiency in chicken.
PXD023020	35396341	The tobacco phosphatidylethanolamine-binding protein NtFT4 increases the lifespan of Drosophila melanogaster by interacting with the proteostasis network. 	Co-immunoprecipitated human proteins with tobacco NtFT4	HEK-293T, IP, NtFT4, cell adhesion, co-ip, insulin response, phosphatidylethanolamine binding protein, proliferation, tabacco	Proteostasis reflects the well-balanced synthesis, trafficking and degradation of cellular proteins. This is a fundamental aspect of the dynamic cellular proteome, which integrates multiple signaling pathways, but it becomes increasingly error-prone during aging. Phosphatidylethanolamine-binding proteins (PEBPs) are highly conserved regulators of signaling networks and could therefore affect aging-related processes. To test this hypothesis, we expressed PEPBs in a heterologous context to determine their ectopic activity. We found that heterologous expression of the tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) PEBP NtFT4 in Drosophila melanogaster significantly increased the lifespan of adult flies and reduced age-related locomotor decline. Similarly, overexpression of the Drosophila ortholog CG7054 increased longevity, whereas its suppression by RNA interference had the opposite effect. In tobacco, NtFT4 acts as a floral regulator by integrating environmental and intrinsic stimuli to promote the transition to reproductive growth. In Drosophila, NtFT4 engaged distinct targets related to proteostasis, such as HSP26. In older flies, it also prolonged Hsp26 gene expression, which promotes longevity by maintaining protein integrity. In NtFT4-transgenic flies, we identified deregulated genes encoding proteases that may contribute to proteome stability at equilibrium. Our results demonstrate that the expression of NtFT4 influences multiple aspects of the proteome maintenance system via both physical interactions and transcriptional regulation, potentially explaining the aging-related phenotypes we observed.
PXD027072	35396966	Wheat grain proteomic and protein-metabolite interactions analyses provide insights into plant growth promoting bacteria-arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi-wheat interactions. 	Wheat proteome in response to Plant Growth Promoting Bacteria (PGPB) and Arbuscular Mycorrhizal Fungi (AMF) treatment	Thermo Q Executive, Wheat, avenin protein, glutenin protein	KEY MESSAGE: Proteomic, protein-protein and protein-metabolite interaction analyses in wheat inoculated with PGPB and AMF identified key proteins and metabolites that may have a role in enhancing yield and biofortification. Plant growth-promoting bacteria (PGPB) and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) have an impact on grain yield and nutrition. This dynamic yet complex interaction implies a broad reprogramming of the plant's metabolic and proteomic activities. However, little information is available regarding the role of native PGPB and AMF and how they affect the plant proteome, especially under field conditions. Here, proteomic, protein-protein and protein-metabolite interaction studies in wheat triggered by PGPB, Bacillus subtilis CP4 either alone or together with AMF under field conditions was carried out. The dual inoculation with native PGPB (CP4) and AMF promoted the differential abundance of many proteins, such as histones, glutenin, avenin and ATP synthase compared to the control and single inoculation. Interaction study of these differentially expressed proteins using STRING revealed that they interact with other proteins involved in seed development and abiotic stress tolerance. Furthermore, these interacting proteins are involved in carbon fixation, sugar metabolism and biosynthesis of amino acids. Molecular docking predicted that wheat seed storage proteins, avenin and glutenin interact with secondary metabolites, such as trehalose, and sugars, such as xylitol. Mapping of differentially expressed proteins to KEGG pathways showed their involvement in sugar metabolism, biosynthesis of secondary metabolites and modulation of histones. These proteins and metabolites can serve as markers for improving wheat-PGPB-AMF interactions leading to higher yield and biofortification.
PXD029891	35397162	Benchmarking differential expression, imputation and quantification methods for proteomics data. 	Benchmarking differential expression, imputation and quantification methods for proteomics data	benchmark data, differential expression, imputation, match between runs	Data analysis is a critical part of quantitative proteomics studies in interpreting biological questions. Numerous computational tools for protein quantification, imputation and differential expression (DE) analysis were generated in the past decade and the search for optimal tools is still going on. Moreover, due to the rapid development of RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) technology, a vast number of DE analysis methods were created for that purpose. The applicability of these newly developed RNA-seq-oriented tools to proteomics data remains in doubt. In order to benchmark these analysis methods, a proteomics dataset consisting of proteins derived from humans, yeast and drosophila, in defined ratios, was generated in this study. Based on this dataset, DE analysis tools, including microarray- and RNA-seq-based ones, imputation algorithms and protein quantification methods were compared and benchmarked. Furthermore, applying these approaches to two public datasets showed that RNA-seq-based DE tools achieved higher accuracy (ACC) in identifying DEPs. This study provides useful guidelines for analyzing quantitative proteomics datasets. All the methods used in this study were integrated into the Perseus software, version 2.0.3.0, which is available at https://www.maxquant.org/perseus.
PXD030860	35397534	The serum of COVID-19 asymptomatic patients up-regulates proteins related to endothelial dysfunction and viral response in circulating angiogenic cells ex-vivo. 	The serum of COVID-19 asymptomatic patients  in circulating angiogenic cells ex-vivo	COVID-19, Endothelial progenitor cells, SARS-CoV-2, asymptomatic, circulating angiogenic cells, endothelial dysfunction	BACKGROUND: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has already caused 6 million deaths worldwide. While asymptomatic individuals are responsible of many potential transmissions, the difficulty to identify and isolate them at the high peak of infection constitutes still a real challenge. Moreover, SARS-CoV-2 provokes severe vascular damage and thromboembolic events in critical COVID-19 patients, deriving in many related deaths and long-hauler symptoms. Understanding how these processes are triggered as well as the potential long-term sequelae, even in asymptomatic individuals, becomes essential. METHODS: We have evaluated, by application of a proteomics-based quantitative approach, the effect of serum from COVID-19 asymptomatic individuals over circulating angiogenic cells (CACs). Healthy CACs were incubated ex-vivo with the serum of either COVID-19 negative (PCR -/IgG -, n:8) or COVID-19 positive asymptomatic donors, at different infective stages: PCR +/IgG - (n:8) and PCR -/IgG + (n:8). Also, a label free quantitative approach was applied to identify and quantify protein differences between these serums. Finally, machine learning algorithms were applied to validate the differential protein patterns in CACs. RESULTS: Our results confirmed that SARS-CoV-2 promotes changes at the protein level in the serum of infected asymptomatic individuals, mainly correlated with altered coagulation and inflammatory processes (Fibrinogen, Von Willebrand Factor, Thrombospondin-1). At the cellular level, proteins like ICAM-1, TLR2 or Ezrin/Radixin were only up-regulated in CACs treated with the serum of asymptomatic patients at the highest peak of infection (PCR + /IgG -), but not with the serum of PCR -/IgG + individuals. Several proteins stood out as significantly discriminating markers in CACs in response to PCR or IgG + serums. Many of these proteins particiArticle title: Kindly check and confirm the edit made in the article title.pate in the initial endothelial response against the virus. CONCLUSIONS: The ex vivo incubation of CACs with the serum of asymptomatic COVID-19 donors at different stages of infection promoted protein changes representative of the endothelial dysfunction and inflammatory response after viral infection, together with activation of the coagulation process. The current approach constitutes an optimal model to study the response of vascular cells to SARS-CoV-2 infection, and an alternative platform to test potential inhibitors targeting either the virus entry pathway or the immune responses following SARS-CoV-2 infection.
PXD026756	35397555	Integrative proteomic characterization of trace FFPE samples in early-stage gastrointestinal cancer. 	LC-MS proteomic profiling of trace FFPE samples in gastrointestinal cancer	Concentration gradient, Early detection, Trace sample	BACKGROUND: The surveillance and therapy of early-stage cancer would be better for patients' prognosis. However, the extreme trace amount of tissue samples in different stages have limited in portraying the characterization of early-stage cancer. Therefore, we focused on and presented comprehensive proteomic and phosphoproproteomic profiling of the trace FFPE samples from early-stage gastrointestinal cancer, and then explored the potential biomarkers of early-stage gastrointestinal cancer. METHODS: In this study, a quantitative proteomic method with chromatography with mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to analyse the proteomic difference between the trace early-stage esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (EESCC) and early-stage duodenum adenocarcinoma cancer (EDAC). RESULTS: We identified ~ 6000 proteins and > 10,000 phosphosites in single trace FFPE samples. Comparative analysis disclosed the diverse proteomic features of tumor tissues compared with paired normal tissue of EESCC and EDAC, and revealed the difference of EESCC and EDAC was derived from their origin normal tissue. The distinct separation of EESCC and EDAC illustrated the functions of cell cycle (RB1 T373, EGFR T693) in EESCC, and the positive impacts of apoptosis, metabolic processes (MTOR and MTOR S1261) in EDAC. Furthermore, we deconvoluted the immune infiltration of early-stage gastrointestinal cancer, in which higher immune cell signatures were detected in EDAC, and showed the specific cytokines in EESCC and EDAC. We performed kinases-substates relationship analysis and elucidated the specific proteomic kinase characterization of EESCC and EDAC, and proposed the medicative effects and corresponding drugs for EESCC and EDAC at the clinic. CONCLUSION: We disclosed the specific immune characterization of the early-stage gastrointestinal cancer, and presented potential makers of EESCC (EGFR, PDGFRB, CDK4, WEE1) and EDAC (MTOR, MAP2K1, MAPK3). This study represents a major stepping stone towards investigating the carcinogenesis mechanism of gastrointestinal cancer, and providing a rich resource for medicative strategy in the clinic.
PXD031653	35398355	The mouse nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase chaperones diverse pathological amyloid client proteins. 	Mechanistic view of NMNAT chaperoning different pathological proteins against amyloid aggregation	CX-MS, IAPP, NMNAT, Tau (K19), amyloid-beta, alpha-syn	Molecular chaperones safeguard cellular protein homeostasis and obviate proteotoxicity. In the process of aging, as chaperone networks decline, aberrant protein amyloid aggregation accumulates in a mechanism that underpins neurodegeneration, leading to pathologies such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Thus, it is important to identify and characterize chaperones for preventing such protein aggregation. In this work, we identified that the NAD(+) synthase-nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase (NMNAT) 3 from mouse (mN3) exhibits potent chaperone activity to antagonize aggregation of a wide spectrum of pathological amyloid client proteins including alpha-synuclein, Tau (K19), amyloid beta, and islet amyloid polypeptide. By combining NMR spectroscopy, cross-linking mass spectrometry, and computational modeling, we further reveal that mN3 uses different region of its amphiphilic surface near the active site to directly bind different amyloid client proteins. Our work demonstrates a client recognition mechanism of NMNAT via which it chaperones different amyloid client proteins against pathological aggregation and implies a potential protective role for NMNAT in different amyloid-associated diseases.
PXD029583	35398590	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Reveals Important Roles of the Acetylation of ER-Resident Molecular Chaperones for Conidiation in Fusarium oxysporum. 	Quantitative acetylome analysis of Fusarium oxysporum	Endoplasmic reticulum, F. oxysporum, Lysine acetylation	Fusarium oxysporum is one of the most abundant and diverse fungal species found in soils and includes nonpathogenic, endophytic, and pathogenic strains affecting a broad range of plant and animal hosts. Conidiation is the major mode of reproduction in many filamentous fungi, but the regulation of this process is largely unknown. Lysine acetylation (Kac) is an evolutionarily conserved and widespread posttranslational modification implicated in regulation of multiple metabolic processes. A total of 62 upregulated and 49 downregulated Kac proteins were identified in sporulating mycelia versus nonsporulating mycelia of F. oxysporum. Diverse cellular proteins, including glycolytic enzymes, ribosomal proteins, and endoplasmic reticulum-resident molecular chaperones, were differentially acetylated in the sporulation process. Altered Kac levels of three endoplasmic reticulum-resident molecular chaperones, PDI(K70), HSP70(K604), and HSP40(K32) were identified that with important roles in F. oxysporum conidiation. Specifically, K70 acetylation (K70ac) was found to be crucial for maintaining stability and activity of protein disulphide isomerase and the K604ac of HSP70 and K32ac of HSP40 suppressed the detoxification ability of these heat shock proteins, resulting in higher levels of protein aggregation. During conidial formation, an increased level of PDI(K70ac) and decreased levels of HSP70(K604ac) and HSP40(K32ac) contributed to the proper processing of unfolded proteins and eliminated protein aggregation, which is beneficial for dramatic cell biological remodeling during conidiation in F. oxysporum.
PXD014572	35398993	A functional corona around extracellular vesicles enhances angiogenesis, skin regeneration and immunomodulation. 	Extracellular vesicles from therapeutic grade allogeneic human placental stromal cells induce angiogenesis and modulate immunity	CLI, Cell Therapy, EV, PAD, PLX stromal cells, TFF, TRPS	Nanoparticles can acquire a plasma protein corona defining their biological identity. Corona functions were previously considered for cell-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs). Here we demonstrate that nano-sized EVs from therapy-grade human placental-expanded (PLX) stromal cells are surrounded by an imageable and functional protein corona when enriched with permissive technology. Scalable EV separation from cell-secreted soluble factors via tangential flow-filtration (TFF) and subtractive tandem mass-tag (TMT) proteomics revealed significant enrichment of predominantly immunomodulatory and proangiogenic proteins. Western blot, calcein-based flow cytometry, super-resolution and electron microscopy verified EV identity. PLX-EVs partly protected corona proteins from protease digestion. EVs significantly ameliorated human skin regeneration and angiogenesis in vivo, induced differential signalling in immune cells, and dose-dependently inhibited T cell proliferation in vitro. Corona removal by size-exclusion or ultracentrifugation abrogated angiogenesis. Re-establishing an artificial corona by cloaking EVs with fluorescent albumin as a model protein or defined proangiogenic factors was depicted by super-resolution microscopy, electron microscopy and zeta-potential shift, and served as a proof-of-concept. Understanding EV corona formation will improve rational EV-inspired nano-therapy design.
PXD021779	35399307	Proteomic Analysis of the Non-genetic Response to Cisplatin in Lung Cancer Cells. 	Proteome dynamics during cisplatin exposure in sensitive and resistant human lung cancer cells	BONCAT, cisplatin, drug resistance, lung cancer	Background: Drug resistance is the main cause of therapy failure in advanced lung cancer. Although non-genetic mechanisms play important roles in tumor chemoresistance, drug-induced epigenetic reprogramming is still poorly understood. Materials and Methods: The A549 cell line was used to generate cells with non-genetic resistance to cisplatin (CDDP), namely A549/CDDP cells. Bioorthogonal non-canonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) and mass spectrometry were used to identify proteins modulated by CDDP in A549 and A549/CDDP cells. Results: Proteins related to proteostasis, telomere maintenance, cell adhesion, cytoskeletal remodeling, and cell redox homeostasis were found enriched in both cell lines upon CDDP exposure. On the other hand, proteins involved in drug response, metabolic pathways and mRNA processing and splicing were up-regulated by CDDP only in A549/CDDP cells. Conclusion: Our study revealed proteome dynamics involved in the non-genetic response to CDDP, pointing out potential targets to monitor and overcome epigenetic resistance in lung cancer.
PXD030660	35399949	Integration of Metabolomics and Proteomics in Exploring the Endothelial Dysfunction Mechanism Induced by Serum Exosomes From Diabetic Retinopathy and Diabetic Nephropathy Patients. 	Proteomics in exploring the endothelial dysfunction mechanism induced by serum exosomes from diabetic retinopathy and diabetic nephropathy patients	diabetic nephropathy, diabetic retinopathy, exosomes, human glomerular endothelial cells	Background: The prevalence of diabetic microvascular diseases has increased significantly worldwide, the most common of which are diabetic nephropathy (DN) and diabetic retinopathy (DR). Microvascular endothelial cells are thought to be major targets of hyperglycemic damage, while the underlying mechanism of diffuse endothelial dysfunction in multiple organs needs to be further investigated. Aim: The aim of this study is to explore the endothelial dysfunction mechanisms of serum exosomes (SExos) extracted from DR and DN (DRDN) patients. Methods: In this study, human glomerular endothelial cells (HGECs) were used as the cell model. Metabolomics ultraperformance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) and proteomics tandem mass tag (TMT)-based liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) together with bioinformatics, the correlation analysis, and the joint pathway analysis were employed to discover the underlying mechanisms of endothelial dysfunction caused by patient's SExos. Results: It can be assumed that serum exosomes extracted by DRDN patients might cause endothelial dysfunction mainly by upregulating alpha subunit of the coagulation factor fibrinogen (FIBA) and downregulating 1-methylhistidine (1-MH). Bioinformatics analysis pointed to an important role in reducing excess cysteine and methionine metabolism. Conclusion: FIBA overexpression and 1-MH loss may be linked to the pathogenicity of diabetic endothelial dysfunction in DR/DN, implying that a cohort study is needed to further investigate the role of FIBA and 1-MH in the development of DN and DR, as well as the related pathways between the two proteins.
PXD031320	35401527	Proteomics Analysis of Aqueous Humor and Rejected Graft in Pig-to-Non-Human Primate Corneal Xenotransplantation. 	Proteomic analysis of aqueous humor and rejected graft in pig-to-nonhuman primate corneal xenotransplantation	Aqueous Humor, Cornea, nonhuman primate (macaque), pig, rejection, xenotransplantation	Although pig-to-non-human primate (NHP) corneal xenotransplantation has shown long-term graft survival, xenogeneic antigen-related immune responses are still stronger than allogeneic antigen-associated responses. Therefore, there is an unmet need to investigate major rejection pathways in corneal xenotransplantation, even with immunosuppression. This study aimed to identify biomarkers in aqueous humor for predicting rejection and to investigate rejection-related pathways in grafts from NHPs transplanted with porcine corneas following the administration of steroids combined with tacrolimus/rituximab. NHPs who had received corneas from wild-type (WT) or alpha-1,3-galactosyltransferase gene-knockout (GTKO) pigs were divided into groups with or without rejection according to clinical examinations. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) was used to analyze the proteomes of corneal tissues or aqueous humor. The biological functions of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were assessed using Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) for pathways and protein-protein interaction network analysis. Among the 66 DEPs in aqueous humor, complement proteins (C3, C5, and C9) and cholesterol metabolic proteins (APOA1 and APOA2) were related to xenogeneic rejection as biomarkers, and alternative pathways of the complement system seemed to be important in xenogeneic graft rejection. Among the 416 DEPs of the cornea, NF-kappaB1 and proteosomes (PSMD7, PSMA5, and PSMD3) seemed to be related to xenogeneic graft rejection. Additionally, oxidative phosphorylation and leukocyte activation-related pathways are involved in rejection. Overall, our proteomic approach highlights the important role of NF-kappaB1, proteosomes, oxidative phosphorylation, and leukocyte activation-related inflammation in the cornea and the relevance of complement pathways of the aqueous humor as a predictive biomarker of xenogeneic rejection.
PXD021150	35401822	Assay design for unambiguous identification and quantification of circulating pathogen-derived peptide biomarkers. 	MRM quantification of circulating CFP-10 in TB patients	CFP10 plasma TB	Rationale: Circulating pathogen-derived proteins can serve as useful biomarkers for infections but may be detected with poor sensitivity and specificity by standard immunoassays due to masking effects and cross-reactivity. Mass spectrometry (MS)-read immunoassays for biomarker-derived peptides can resolve these issues, but lack standard workflows to select species-specific peptides with strong MS signal that are suitable for antibody generation. Methods:Using a Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) protein as an example, candidate peptides were selected by length, species-specificity, MS intensity, and antigenicity score. MS data from spiked healthy serum was employed to define MS feature thresholds, including a novel measure of internal MS data correlation, to produce a peak detection algorithm. Results: This algorithm performed better in rejecting false positive signal than each of its criteria, including those currently employed for this purpose. Analysis of an Mtb peptide biomarker (CFP-10pep) by this approach identified tuberculosis cases not detected by microbiologic assays, including extrapulmonary tuberculosis and tuberculosis cases in children infected with HIV-1. Circulating CFP-10pep levels measured in a non-human primate model of tuberculosis distinguished disease from asymptomatic infection and tended to correspond with Mtb granuloma size, suggesting that it could also serve as a surrogate marker for Mtb burden and possibly treatment response. Conclusions: These biomarker selection and analysis approach appears to have strong potential utility for infectious disease diagnosis, including cryptic infections, and possibly to monitor changes in Mtb burden that may reflect disease progression or a response to treatment, which are critical needs for more effective disease control.
PXD023042	35401936	Role of the prorenin receptor in endometrial cancer cell growth. 	Role of prorenin receptor (P)RR in endometrial cancer cell growth	(P)RR, AN3CA and HEC-1A, ATP6AP2, Cellular proliferation, Cellular viability, Endometrial epithelial cancer cell, Ishikawa, Quantitative proteomics, Tandem Mass Tags	Endometrial cancer is the most diagnosed gynecological malignancy. Despite numerous scientific advances, the incidence and mortality rate of endometrial cancer continues to rise. Emerging evidence suggests a putative role of the (pro)renin receptor ((P)RR), in the ontogenesis of endometrial cancer. The (P)RR is implicated in breast cancer and pancreatic carcinoma pathophysiology by virtue of its role in proliferation, angiogenesis, fibrosis, migration and invasion. Thus, we aimed to investigate the functional role of the (P)RR in human endometrial cancer. We employed an siRNA-mediated knockdown approach to abrogate (P)RR expression in the endometrial epithelial cell lines; Ishikawa, AN3CA and HEC-1-A and examined cellular proliferation and viability. We also carried out a sophisticated proteomic screen to explore potential pathways via which the (P)RR is acting in endometrial cancer physiology. These data confirmed that the (P)RR is critical for endometrial cancer development, contributing to both its proliferative capacity and in the maintenance of cell viability. This is likely mediated through proteins such as MGA, SLC4A7, SLC7A11 or DHRS2, which were reduced following (P)RR knockdown. These putative protein interactions/pathways, which rely on the presence of the (P)RR, are likely to contribute to endometrial cancer progression and could therefore, represent several novel therapeutic targets for endometrial cancer.
PXD027602	35402263	Proteomic-Based Machine Learning Analysis Reveals PYGB as a Novel Immunohistochemical Biomarker to Distinguish Inverted Urothelial Papilloma From Low-Grade Papillary Urothelial Carcinoma With Inverted Growth. 	proteomic landscape of urothelial tumor	FFPE, Urothelial Tumor, label free quantification	Background: The molecular biology of inverted urothelial papilloma (IUP) as a precursor disease of urothelial carcinoma is poorly understood. Furthermore, the overlapping histology between IUP and papillary urothelial carcinoma (PUC) with inverted growth is a diagnostic pitfall leading to frequent misdiagnoses. Methods: To identify the oncologic significance of IUP and discover a novel biomarker for its diagnosis, we employed mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis of IUP, PUC, and normal urothelium (NU). Machine learning analysis shortlisted candidate proteins, while subsequent immunohistochemical validation was performed in an independent sample cohort. Results: From the overall proteomic landscape, we found divergent 'NU-like' (low-risk) and 'PUC-like' (high-risk) signatures in IUP. The latter were characterized by altered metabolism, biosynthesis, and cell-cell interaction functions, indicating oncologic significance. Further machine learning-based analysis revealed SERPINH1, PKP2, and PYGB as potential diagnostic biomarkers discriminating IUP from PUC. The immunohistochemical validation confirmed PYGB as a specific biomarker to distinguish between IUP and PUC with inverted growth. Conclusion: In conclusion, we suggest PYGB as a promising immunohistochemical marker for IUP diagnosis in routine practice.
PXD031620	35402877	Secretory defects in pediatric osteosarcoma result from downregulation of selective COPII coatomer proteins. 	Elucidation of the molecular changes underlying abnormal ER characteristic of osteosarcoma	COPII vesicle components, ER homeostasis, Osteosarcoma	Pediatric osteosarcomas (OS) exhibit extensive genomic instability that has complicated the identification of new targeted therapies. We found the vast majority of 108 patient tumor samples and patient-derived xenografts (PDXs), which display an unusually dilated endoplasmic reticulum (ER), have reduced expression of four COPII vesicle components that trigger aberrant accumulation of procollagen-I protein within the ER. CRISPR activation technology was used to increase the expression of two of these, SAR1A and SEC24D, to physiological levels. This was sufficient to resolve the dilated ER morphology, restore collagen-I secretion, and enhance secretion of some extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. However, orthotopic xenograft growth was not adversely affected by restoration of only SAR1A and SEC24D. Our studies reveal the mechanism responsible for the dilated ER that is a hallmark characteristic of OS and identify a highly conserved molecular signature for this genetically unstable tumor. Possible relationships of this phenotype to tumorigenesis are discussed.
PXD025338	35403872	The E3 ubiquitin ligase SMURF2 stabilizes RNA editase ADAR1p110 and promotes its adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) editing function. 	ADAR1 interactome analysis, LC-MS/MS	Human embryonic kidney HEK-293T cells LC-MS/MS	Epitranscriptomic changes in RNA catalyzed by the RNA-editing enzyme ADAR1 play an essential role in the regulation of diverse molecular and cellular processes, both under physiological conditions and in disease states, including cancer. Yet, despite a growing body of evidence pointing to ADAR1 as a potential therapeutic target, the mechanisms regulating its cellular abundance and activity, particularly of its constitutively expressed and ubiquitous form, ADAR1p110, are poorly understood. Here, we report the HECT-type E3 ubiquitin ligase SMURF2 as a pivotal regulator of ADAR1p110. We show that SMURF2, which is primarily known to promote the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of its protein substrates, protects ADAR1p110 from proteolysis and promotes its A-to-I editase activity in human and mouse cells and tissues. ADAR1p110's interactome analysis performed in human cells also showed a positive influence of SMURF2 on the stability and function of ADAR1p110. Mechanistically, we found that SMURF2 directly binds, ubiquitinates and stabilizes ADAR1p110 in an E3 ubiquitin ligase-dependent manner, through ADAR1p110 ubiquitination at lysine-744 (K744). Mutation of this residue to arginine (K744R), which is also associated with several human disorders, including dyschromatosis symmetrica hereditaria (DSH) and some types of cancer, abolished SMURF2-mediated protection of ADAR1p110 from both proteasomal and lysosomal degradation and inactivated ADAR1p110-mediated RNA editing. Our findings reveal a novel mechanism underlying the regulation of ADAR1 in mammalian cells and suggest SMURF2 as a key cellular factor influencing the protein abundance, interactions and functions of ADAR1p110.
PXD032164	35405095	Structure-guided mutagenesis of a mucin-selective metalloprotease from Akkermansia muciniphila alters substrate preferences. 	Structure-guided mutagenesis of a mucin-selective metalloprotease from Akkermansia muciniphila alters substrate preferences	O-glycosylation, X-ray crystallography, enzyme structure, metalloprotease, microbiome, molecular docking, mucin, mucinase	Akkermansia muciniphila, a mucin-degrading microbe found in the human gut, is often associated with positive health outcomes. The abundance of A. muciniphila is modulated by the presence and accessibility of nutrients, which can be derived from diet or host glycoproteins. In particular, the ability to degrade host mucins, a class of proteins carrying densely O-glycosylated domains, provides a competitive advantage in the sustained colonization of niche mucosal environments. Although A. muciniphila is known to rely on mucins as a carbon and nitrogen source, the enzymatic machinery used by this microbe to process mucins in the gut is not yet fully characterized. Here, we focus on the mucin-selective metalloprotease, Amuc_0627 (AM0627), which is known to cleave between adjacent residues carrying truncated core 1 O-glycans. We showed that this enzyme is capable of degrading purified mucin 2 (MUC2), the major protein component of mucus in the gut. An X-ray crystal structure of AM0627 (1.9 Aa resolution) revealed O-glycan-binding residues that are conserved between structurally characterized enzymes from the same family. We further rationalized the substrate cleavage motif using molecular modeling to identify nonconserved glycan-interacting residues. We conclude that mutagenesis of these residues resulted in altered substrate preferences down to the glycan level, providing insight into the structural determinants of O-glycan recognition.
PXD027823	35405272	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma cells employ integrin alpha6beta4 to form hemidesmosomes and regulate cell proliferation. 	Secretome from human pancreatic ductal cells (HPDE)	ECM, PDAC	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has a dismal prognosis due to its aggressive progression, late detection and lack of druggable driver mutations, which often combine to result in unsuitability for surgical intervention. Together with activating mutations of the small GTPase KRas, which are found in over 90% of PDAC tumours, a contributory factor for PDAC tumour progression is formation of a rigid extracellular matrix (ECM) and associated desmoplasia. This response leads to aberrant integrin signalling, and accelerated proliferation and invasion. To identify the integrin adhesion systems that operate in PDAC, we analysed a range of pancreatic ductal epithelial cell models using 2D, 3D and organoid culture systems. Proteomic analysis of isolated integrin receptor complexes from human pancreatic ductal epithelial (HPDE) cells predominantly identified integrin alpha6beta4 and hemidesmosome components, rather than classical focal adhesion components. Electron microscopy, together with immunofluorescence, confirmed the formation of hemidesmosomes by HPDE cells, both in 2D and 3D culture systems. Similar results were obtained for the human PDAC cell line, SUIT-2. Analysis of HPDE cell secreted proteins and cell-derived matrices (CDM) demonstrated that HPDE cells secrete a range of laminin subunits and form a hemidesmosome-specific, laminin 332-enriched ECM. Expression of mutant KRas (G12V) did not affect hemidesmosome composition or formation by HPDE cells. Cell-ECM contacts formed by mouse and human PDAC organoids were also assessed by electron microscopy. Organoids generated from both the PDAC KPC mouse model and human patient-derived PDAC tissue displayed features of acinar-ductal cell polarity, and hemidesmosomes were visible proximal to prominent basement membranes. Furthermore, electron microscopy identified hemidesmosomes in normal human pancreas. Depletion of integrin beta4 reduced cell proliferation in both SUIT-2 and HPDE cells, reduced the number of SUIT-2 cells in S-phase, and induced G1 cell cycle arrest, suggesting a requirement for alpha6beta4-mediated adhesion for cell cycle progression and growth. Taken together, these data suggest that laminin-binding adhesion mechanisms in general, and hemidesmosome-mediated adhesion in particular, may be under-appreciated in the context of PDAC. Proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifiers PXD027803, PXD027823 and PXD027827.
PXD030974	35406724	Proteomics Approach Highlights Early Changes in Human Fibroblasts-Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Cells Crosstalk. 	Proteomics approach unravels early changes in Human Fibro-blasts-Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma cells crosstalk	Cancer associated fibroblasts, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis, PDAC microenvironment	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is a leading cause of cancer mortality worldwide. Non-specific symptoms, lack of biomarkers in the early stages, and drug resistance due to the presence of a dense fibrous stroma all contribute to the poor outcome of this disease. The extracellular matrix secreted by activated fibroblasts contributes to the desmoplastic tumor microenvironment formation. Given the importance of fibroblast activation in PDAC pathology, it is critical to recognize the mechanisms involved in the transformation of normal fibroblasts in the early stages of tumorigenesis. To this aim, we first identified the proteins released from the pancreatic cancer cell line MIA-PaCa2 by proteomic analysis of their conditioned medium (CM). Second, normal fibroblasts were treated with MIA-PaCa2 CM for 24 h and 48 h and their proteostatic changes were detected by proteomics. Pathway analysis indicated that treated fibroblasts undergo changes compatible with the activation of migration, vasculogenesis, cellular homeostasis and metabolism of amino acids and reduced apoptosis. These biological activities are possibly regulated by ITGB3 and TGFB1/2 followed by SMAD3, STAT3 and BAG3 activation. In conclusion, this study sheds light on the crosstalk between PDAC cells and associated fibroblasts. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD030974.
PXD031795	35406725	Chemerin Effect on the Endometrial Proteome of the Domestic Pig during Implantation Obtained by LC-MS/MS Analysis. 	Chemerin effect on the endometrial proteome of the domestic pig during implantation obtained by LC-MS/MS analysis	LC-MS, TMT, chemerin, endometrium, pig	Chemerin (CHEM) is a hormone mainly expressed in adipocytes involved in the regulation of energy homeostasis and inflammatory response. CHEM expression has been demonstrated in the structures of the porcine hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, as well as in the uterus, trophoblasts and conceptuses of pigs. In this study, we performed high-throughput proteomic analyses (liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry, LC-MS/MS) to examine the influence of CHEM (400 ng/mL) on differentially regulated proteins (DRPs) in the porcine endometrial tissue explants during implantation (15 to 16 days of gestation). Among all 352 DRPs, 164 were up-regulated and 188 were down-regulated in CHEM-treated group. DRPs were assigned to 47 gene ontology (GO) terms (p-adjusted < 0.05). Validation of four DRPs (IFIT5, TGFbeta1, ACO1 and PGRMC1) by Western blot analysis confirmed the veracity and accuracy of the LC-MS/MS method used in the present study. We suggest that CHEM, by modulating various protein expressions, takes part in the endometrial cell proliferation, migration and invasion at the time of implantation. It also regulates the endometrial immune response, sensitivity to P4 and the formation of new blood vessels. Additionally, CHEM appears to be an important factor involved in endothelial cell dysfunction during the pathogenesis of preeclampsia. The identification of a large number of DRPs under the influence of CHEM provides a valuable resource for understanding the molecular mechanisms of this hormone action during implantation, which is a prerequisite for better control of pig reproduction.
PXD029157	35406738	CARD19 Interacts with Mitochondrial Contact Site and Cristae Organizing System Constituent Proteins and Regulates Cristae Morphology. 	Card19 Iinteraction Partners in Murine Macrophages	BinCARD, C9ORF89, CHCHD3, CHCHD6, Card19, IMMT, MICOS, MTX2, SAMM50, mitochondria	CARD19 is a mitochondrial protein of unknown function. While CARD19 was originally reported to regulate TCR-dependent NF-kappaB activation via interaction with BCL10, this function is not recapitulated ex vivo in primary murine CD8(+) T cells. Here, we employ a combination of SIM, TEM, and confocal microscopy, along with proteinase K protection assays and proteomics approaches, to identify interacting partners of CARD19 in macrophages. Our data show that CARD19 is specifically localized to the outer mitochondrial membrane. Through deletion of functional domains, we demonstrate that both the distal C-terminus and transmembrane domain are required for mitochondrial targeting, whereas the CARD is not. Importantly, mass spectrometry analysis of 3xMyc-CARD19 immunoprecipitates reveals that CARD19 interacts with the components of the mitochondrial intermembrane bridge (MIB), consisting of mitochondrial contact site and cristae organizing system (MICOS) components MIC19, MIC25, and MIC60, and MICOS-interacting proteins SAMM50 and MTX2. These CARD19 interactions are in part dependent on a properly folded CARD. Consistent with previously reported phenotypes upon siRNA silencing of MICOS subunits, absence of CARD19 correlates with irregular cristae morphology. Based on these data, we propose that CARD19 is a previously unknown interacting partner of the MIB and the MIC19-MIC25-MIC60 MICOS subcomplex that regulates cristae morphology.
PXD031723	35406748	Comparative Proteomic Profiling of Ectosomes Derived from Thyroid Carcinoma and Normal Thyroid Cells Uncovers Multiple Proteins with Functional Implications in Cancer. 	Comparative proteomic profiling of ectosomes derived from thyroid carcinoma and normal thyroid cells uncovers multiple proteins with functional implications in cancer	cancer, ectosomes, thyroid carcinoma	Proteins carried by tumor-derived ectosomes play an important role in cancer progression, and are considered promising diagnostic markers. In the present study, a shotgun nanoLC-MS/MS proteomic approach was applied to profile and compare the protein content of ectosomes released in vitro by normal human thyroid follicular epithelial Nthy-ori 3-1 cells and human anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (TC) 8305C cells. Additionally, the pro-migratory and pro-proliferative effects of Nthy-ori 3-1- and 8305C-derived ectosomes exerted on the recipient cells were assessed in wound closure and Alamar Blue assays. A total of 919 proteins were identified in all replicates of 8305C-derived ectosomes, while Nthy-ori 3-1-derived ectosomes contained a significantly lower number of 420 identified proteins. Qualitative analysis revealed 568 proteins present uniquely in 8305C-derived ectosomes, suggesting their applicability in TC diagnosis and management. In addition, 8305C-derived ectosomes were able to increase the proliferation and motility rates of the recipient cells, likely due to the ectosomal transfer of the identified cancer-promoting molecules. Our description of ectosome protein content and its related functions provides the first insight into the role of ectosomes in TC development and progression. The results also indicate the applicability of some of these ectosomal proteins for further investigation regarding their potential as circulating TC biomarkers.
PXD009837	35406951	Comparative Proteomics Reveals the Difference in Root Cold Resistance between Vitis. riparia x V. labrusca and Cabernet Sauvignon in Response to Freezing Temperature. 	Wine grape iTRAQ              .	Root, Wine grape, iTRAQ, low tempertature	Grapevines, bearing fruit containing large amounts of bioactive metabolites that offer health benefits, are widely cultivated around the world. However, the cold damage incurred when grown outside in extremely low temperatures during the overwintering stage limits the expansion of production. Although the morphological, biochemical, and molecular levels in different Vitis species exposed to different temperatures have been investigated, differential expression of proteins in roots is still limited. Here, the roots of cold-resistant (Vitis. riparia x V. labrusca, T1) and cold-sensitive varieties (Cabernet Sauvignon, T3) at -4 degreesC, and also at -15 degreesC for the former (T2), were measured by iTRAQ-based proteomic analysis. Expression levels of genes encoding candidate proteins were validated by qRT-PCR, and the root activities during different treatments were determined using a triphenyl tetrazolium chloride method. The results show that the root activity of the cold-resistant variety was greater than that of the cold-sensitive variety, and it declined with the decrease in temperature. A total of 25 proteins were differentially co-expressed in T2 vs. T1 and T1 vs. T3, and these proteins were involved in stress response, bio-signaling, metabolism, energy, and translation. The relative expression levels of the 13 selected genes were consistent with their fold-change values of proteins. The signature translation patterns for the roots during spatio-temporal treatments of different varieties at different temperatures provide insight into the differential mechanisms of cold resistance of grapevine.
PXD032674	35407122	Label-Free LC-MS/MS Analysis Reveals Different Proteomic Profiles between Egg Yolks of Silky Fowl and Ordinary Chickens. 	Label-free LC-MS/MS analysis of silky fowl egg yolk	Egg yolk, Label-Free proteomic analysis, Silky fowl (black-bone chicken)	The proteomic profiles of Silky fowl egg yolk (SFEY) and Leghorn egg yolk (LEY) were analyzed by bottom-up label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). From a total of 186 identified proteins, 26 proteins were found significantly differentially abundant between two yolks, of which, 19 were up-regulated and 7 were down-regulated in SFEY, particularly, vitelline membrane outer layer protein 1, transthyretin and ovoinhibitor were up-regulated by 26, 25, and 16 times, respectively. In addition, there were 57 and 6 unique proteins in SFEY and LEY, respectively. Gene Ontology (GO) revealed SFEY contained relatively more abundant protease inhibitors and coagulation-related proteins. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis revealed differentially abundant proteins in SFEY may be actively involved in the regulation of the neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction pathway. This study provides a theoretical basis for the understanding of proteomic and biological differences between these two yolks and can guide for further exploration of nutritional and biomedical use of Silky fowl egg.
PXD031368	35409261	GABAA Receptor-Stabilizing Protein Ubqln1 Affects Hyperexcitability and Epileptogenesis after Traumatic Brain Injury and in a Model of In Vitro Epilepsy in Mice. 	LFQ proteomics of isolated GABAergic interneurons from mouse models of traumatic brain injury	GABAergic interneurons, LFQ, SP3, Synapt, UDMSE, cortex, posttraumatic epilepsy, traumatic brain injury, ubiquilin-1	Posttraumatic epilepsy (PTE) is a major public health concern and strongly contributes to human epilepsy cases worldwide. However, an effective treatment and prevention remains a matter of intense research. The present study provides new insights into the gamma aminobutyric acid A (GABAA)-stabilizing protein ubiquilin-1 (ubqln1) and its regulation in mouse models of traumatic brain injury (TBI) and in vitro epilepsy. We performed label-free quantification on isolated cortical GABAergic interneurons from GAD67-GFP mice that received unilateral TBI and discovered reduced expression of ubqln1 24 h post-TBI. To investigate the link between this regulation and the development of epileptiform activity, we further studied ubqln1 expression in hippocampal and cortical slices. Epileptiform events were evoked pharmacologically in acute brain slices by administration of picrotoxin (PTX, 50 muM) and kainic acid (KA, 500 nM) and recorded in the hippocampal CA1 subfield using Multi-electrode Arrays (MEA). Interestingly, quantitative Western blots revealed significant decreases in ubqln1 expression 1-7 h after seizure induction that could be restored by application of the non-selective monoamine oxidase inhibitor nialamide (NM, 10 muM). In picrotoxin-dependent dose-response relationships, NM administration alleviated the frequency and peak amplitude of seizure-like events (SLEs). These findings indicate a role of the monoamine transmitter systems and ubqln1 for cortical network activity during posttraumatic epileptogenesis.
PXD032248	35409343	Suppression of CCT3 Inhibits Tumor Progression by Impairing ATP Production and Cytoplasmic Translation in Lung Adenocarcinoma. 	Tandem mass tag-mass spectrometry of CCT3 knockdown A549 and H1299  cell lines	A549, CCT3 knockdown, H1299, TMT	Heat shock proteins are highly expressed in various cancers and exert critical functions in tumor progression. However, their expression patterns and functions in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) remain largely unknown. We identified that chaperonin-containing T-complex protein-1 subunit 3 (CCT3) was highly expressed in LUAD cells and was positively correlated with LUAD malignancy in the clinical samples. Animal studies showed that silencing CCT3 dramatically inhibited tumor growth and metastasis of LUAD. Proliferation and migration were markedly suppressed in CCT3-deficient LUAD cells. Moreover, the knockdown of CCT3 promoted apoptosis and cell cycle arrest. Mechanistically, the function of glycolysis was significantly inhibited and the total intracellular ATP levels were reduced by at least 25% in CCT3-deficient cells. In addition, the knockdown of CCT3 decreased the protein translation and led to a significant reduction in eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 (EIF3G) protein, which was identified as a protein that interacts with CCT3. Impaired protein synthesis and cell growth in EIF3G-deficient cells were consistent with those caused by CCT3 knockdown in LUAD cells. Taken together, our study demonstrated in multiple ways that CCT3 is a critical factor for supporting growth and metastasis of LUAD, and for the first time, its roles in maintaining intracellular ATP levels and cytoplasmic translation are reported. Our novel findings provide a potential therapeutic target for lung adenocarcinoma.
PXD027405	35410525	Pink1 promotes cell proliferation and affects glycolysis in breast cancer. 	iTRAQ-based Quantitative Proteomics Analysis of protein profile response to Pink1 deletion in breast cancer	Breast Cancer, Pink1, metabolism	Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN)-induced kinase 1 (Pink1) is regarded as a tumor suppressor and plays an important role in cancer cell biology, while relatively few studies have examined Pink1 in breast cancer, especially in vivo. The aims of this study were to investigate Pink1 expression in different subtypes of breast cancer tissues and cell lines and explore the effect of Pink1 protein on breast cancer. In these experiments, Pink1 expression was investigated using the tissue microarray immunohistochemistry (TMA-IHC) method in 150 samples of breast cancer tissues with different subtypes, and strong staining of Pink1 was significantly correlated with the histological grade of breast cancer (p = 0.015). In addition, Pink1 messenger RNA (mRNA) displayed much higher expression levels in breast cancer cell lines than in MCF-10A breast epithelial cells. Moreover, proteomic data obtained by isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) showed that Pink1 deletion induced a distinct proteomic profile in MDA-MB-231 cells, and enrichment analysis showed that the differential proteins were concentrated mainly in energy metabolism-related pathways. Moreover, Seahorse XF analysis showed that Pink1 knockout reduced the glycolytic ability of MDA-MB-231 cells. Our findings indicated that Pink1 may be an indicator of malignancy in breast cancer and that it presents oncogenic properties in breast cancer, which raises another perspective for understanding the regulatory role of Pink1 in breast cancer.
PXD023930	35413245	Binding of LAG-3 to stable peptide-MHC class II limits T cell function and suppresses autoimmunity and anti-cancer immunity. 	N-terminal peptides of LAG-3 (WT, V20A, and L14Q/V20A) were quantified by PRM 	LAG-3, N-terminal peptides, PRM	Lymphocyte activation gene-3 (LAG-3) is a potent inhibitory co-receptor; yet, its functional ligand remains elusive, with distinct potential ligands identified. Here, we investigated the relative contribution of potential ligands, stable peptide-MHC class II complexes (pMHCII) and fibrinogen-like protein 1 (FGL1), to LAG-3 activity in vitro and in vivo. Binding of LAG-3 to stable pMHCII but not to FGL1 induced T cell suppression in vitro. Consistently, LAG-3 mutants lacking FGL1-binding capacity but not those lacking stable pMHCII-binding capacity retained suppressive activity in vitro. Accordingly, targeted disruption of stable pMHCII- but not FGL1-binding capacity of LAG-3 in NOD mice recapitulated diabetes exacerbation by LAG-3 deficiency. Additionally, the loss of stable pMHCII-binding capacity of LAG-3 augmented anti-cancer immunity comparably with LAG-3 deficiency in C57BL/6 mice. These results identify stable pMHCII as a functional ligand of LAG-3 both in autoimmunity and anti-cancer immunity. Thus, stable pMHCII-LAG-3 interaction is a potential therapeutic target in human diseases.
PXD030298	35414267	Identification and Tetramer Structure of Hemin-Binding Protein SPD_0310 Linked to Iron Homeostasis and Virulence of Streptococcus pneumoniae. 	Identification and Tetramer Structure of SPD_0310 Hemin-storage Protein Linked to Streptococcus pneumoniae Iron Homeostasis and Virulence	GST pull-down, SPD_0310, Streptococcus pneumoniae	Iron and iron-containing compounds are essential for bacterial virulence and host infection. Hemin is an important supplement compound for bacterial survival in an iron-deficient environment. Despite strong interest in hemin metabolism, the detailed mechanism of hemin transportation in Gram-positive bacteria is yet to be reported. The results of our study revealed that the homologous proteins of SPD_0310 were significantly conservative in Gram-positive bacteria (P < 0.001), and these proteins were identified as belonging to an uncharacterized protein family (UPF0371). The results of thermodynamic and kinetic studies have shown that SPD_0310 has a high hemin-binding affinity. Interestingly, we found that the crystal structure of SPD_0310 presented a homotetramer conformation, which is required for hemin binding. SPD_0310 can interact with many hemin-binding proteins (SPD_0090, SPD_1609, and GAPDH) located on the cell surface, which contributes to hemin transfer to the cytoplasm. It also has a high affinity with other iron transporters in the cytoplasm (SPD_0226 and SPD_0227), which facilitates iron redistribution in cells. More importantly, the knockout of the spd_0310 gene (Deltaspd_0310) resulted in a decrease in the iron content and protein expression levels of many bacterial adhesion factors. Moreover, the animal model showed that the Deltaspd_0310 strain has a lower virulence than the wild type. Based on the crystallographic and biochemical studies, we inferred that SPD_0310 is a hemin intermediate transporter which contributes to iron homeostasis and further affects the virulence of Streptococcus pneumoniae in the host. Our study provides not only an important theoretical basis for the in-depth elucidation of the hemin transport mechanism in bacteria but also an important candidate target for the development of novel antimicrobial agents based on metal transport systems. IMPORTANCE Iron is an essential element for bacterial virulence and infection of the host. The detailed hemin metabolism in Gram-positive bacteria has rarely been studied. SPD_0310 belongs to the UPF0371 family of proteins, and results of homology analysis and evolutionary tree analysis suggested that it was widely distributed and highly conserved in Gram-positive bacteria. However, the function of the UPF0371 family remains unknown. We successfully determined the crystal structure of apo-SPD_0310, which is a homotetramer. We found that cytoplasmic protein SPD_0310 with a special tetramer structure has a strong hemin-binding ability and interacts with many iron transporters, which facilitates hemin transfer from the extracellular space to the cytoplasm. The results of detailed functional analyses indicated that SPD_0310 may function as a hemin transporter similar to hemoglobin in animals and contributes to bacterial iron homeostasis and virulence. This study provides a novel target for the development of antimicrobial drugs against pathogenic Gram-positive bacteria.
PXD027458	35416576	Age-related disruption of the proteome and acetylome in mouse hearts is associated with loss of function and attenuated by elamipretide (SS-31) and nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) treatment. 	Age-Related Disruption of the Proteome and Acetylome in Mouse Hearts Correlates with Differential Loss of Function that is Attenuated by SS-31 and NMN	Acetyl-lysine, aging, heart, mitochondria, post translational modifications, targeted proteomics	We analyzed the effects of aging on protein abundance and acetylation, as well as the ability of the mitochondrial-targeted drugs elamipretide (SS-31) and nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) to reverse aging-associated changes in mouse hearts. Both drugs had a modest effect on restoring the abundance and acetylation of proteins that are altered with age, while also inducing additional changes. Age-related increases in protein acetylation were predominantly in mitochondrial pathways such as mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative phosphorylation, and TCA cycle signaling. We further assessed how these age-related changes associated with diastolic function (Ea/Aa) and systolic function (fractional shortening under higher workload) measurements from echocardiography. These results identify a subset of protein abundance and acetylation changes in muscle, mitochondrial, and structural proteins that appear to be essential in regulating diastolic function in old hearts.
PXD032085	35417684	Global post-translational modification profiling of HIV-1-infected cells reveals mechanisms of host cellular pathway remodeling. 	Global post-translational modification profiling of HIV-1-infected cells reveals mechanisms of host cellular pathway remodeling	HIV-1, b56, histone h1, phosphorylation, pp2a, systems biology, ubiquitination, vif, vpr	Viruses must effectively remodel host cellular pathways to replicate and evade immune defenses, and they must do so with limited genomic coding capacity. Targeting post-translational modification (PTM) pathways provides a mechanism by which viruses can broadly and rapidly transform a hostile host environment into a hospitable one. We use mass spectrometry-based proteomics to quantify changes in protein abundance and two PTM types-phosphorylation and ubiquitination-in response to HIV-1 infection with viruses harboring targeted deletions of a subset of HIV-1 genes. PTM analysis reveals a requirement for Aurora kinase activity in HIV-1 infection and identified putative substrates of a phosphatase that is degraded during infection. Finally, we demonstrate that the HIV-1 Vpr protein inhibits histone H1 ubiquitination, leading to defects in DNA repair.
PXD031069	35419005	Discovery of Novel Circulating Immune Complexes in Lupus Nephritis Using Immunoproteomics. 	Discovery of Novel Circulating Immune Complexes in Lupus Nephritis Using Immunoproteomics	Lupus Nephritis, MS/MS, Serum	Objective: The goal is to discover novel circulating immune complexes (ICx) in the serum of lupus nephritis (LN) as potential biomarkers. Methods: Protein A/G magnetic beads or C1q-coated plates were used to capture ICx in the serum of LN, followed by the identification of immunoglobulin-binding proteins using liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Bioinformatic approaches and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA Seq) databases were used to select potential candidate ICx markers in LN. The selected ICx markers were further validated using ELISA. Results: A total of 300 immunoglobulin-binding proteins were discovered in the screening, among which 77 proteins were detectable only in LN samples. Bioinformatics-assisted selection allowed us to further identify 10 potential immunoglobulin-binding proteins, which form ICx as potential biomarkers in LN. In a validation cohort of 62 LN patients and 21 healthy controls (HC), we found that prolyl 3-hydroxylase 1 (P3H1), phosphatase and actin regulator 4 (PHACTR4), and regulator of G-protein signaling 12 (RGS12) ICx exhibited discriminative capability in distinguishing LN from HC, with an area under the curve (AUC) values of 0.82, 0.99, and 0.90, respectively. Furthermore, a biomarker panel comprising CD14, CD34, cystatin A, myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C), RGS12, and ubiquitin C (UBC) ICx could distinguish active LN from inactive LN with an AUC value of 0.85, which is comparable to or better than pathological parameters such as renal activity index (AI) and renal chronicity index (CI). Conclusion: Immunoproteomics-based discovery studies have enabled us to identify circulating immune complexes as potential biomarkers of LN.
PXD032233	35420434	Profiling Glutathionylome in CD38-Mediated Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition. 	Profiling Glutathionylome in CD38-mediated  Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition	CD38, Epithelial-Mesenchymal Transition, Glutathionylome	Protein S-glutathionylation is an important posttranslational modification that regulates various cellular processes. However, changes in glutathionylome in epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT), a crucial cellular process for embryonic development, wound healing, and carcinoma progression and metastasis, have not been fully characterized. Our previous study revealed that CD38 overexpression decreased cellular nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) levels and caused cells to undergo EMT. In the present study, we engineered a cell system in which the glutathione synthetase (GS) mutant was expressed that catalyzed the formation of a glutathione analogue from azido-alanine to profile changes of glutathionylome in CD38-overexpressing cells. We identified 1298 glutathionylated proteins and revealed that proteins with changed glutathionylation levels involved in EMT associated pathways including epithelial adherens junction, actin cytoskeleton, and integrin signaling. Moreover, the glutathionylation level of 15-hydroxyprostaglandin dehydrogenase (15-PGDH) was increased in CD38-overexpressing cells. We further demonstrated that glutathionylation of Cys63 residue in 15-PGDH led to decreased enzymatic activity that could promote EMT by increasing prostaglandin E2 (PGE2). Taken together, these results indicate that the clickable glutathione is an effective probe for glutathionylome profiling, and glutathionylation of 15-PGDH on Cys63 inhibits its enzymatic activity to promote EMT.
PXD026981	35421590	Widespread Arginine Phosphorylation in Staphylococcus aureus. 	Extensive arginine phosphorylation in Staphylococcus aureus is influences by Stp1	Staphylococcus aureus, Stp1, arginine phosphorylation, fragmentation, phosphorylation	Arginine phosphorylation was only recently discovered to play a significant and relevant role in the Gram-positive bacterium Bacillus subtilis. In addition, arginine phosphorylation was also detected in Staphylococcus aureus, suggesting a widespread role in bacteria. However, the large-scale analysis of protein phosphorylation, and especially those that involve a phosphoramidate bond, comes along with several challenges. The substoichiometric nature of protein phosphorylation requires proper enrichment strategies prior to LC-MS/MS analysis, and the acid instability of phosphoramidates was long thought to impede those enrichments. Furthermore, good spectral quality is required, which can be impeded by the presence of neutral losses of phosphoric acid upon higher energy collision-induced dissociation. Here we show that pArg is stable enough for commonly used Fe(3+)-IMAC enrichment followed by LC-MS/MS and that HCD is still the gold standard for the analysis of phosphopeptides. By profiling a serine/threonine kinase (Stk1) and phosphatase (Stp1) mutant from a methicillin-resistant S. aureus mutant library, we identified 1062 pArg sites and thus the most comprehensive arginine phosphoproteome to date. Using synthetic arginine phosphorylated peptides, we validated the presence and localization of arginine phosphorylation in S. aureus. Finally, we could show that the knockdown of Stp1 significantly increases the overall amount of arginine phosphorylation in S. aureus. However, our analysis also shows that Stp1 is not a direct protein-arginine phosphatase but only indirectly influences the arginine phosphoproteome.
PXD030885	35421932	Role of APOA1 in the resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy in squamous cervical cancer. 	TMT Screening of Human Samples:SiHa cell	Human Samples, SiHa cell, TMT Screening	BACKGROUND: To investigate the mechanism by which apolipoprotein A1 (APOA1) enhances the resistance of cervical squamous carcinoma to platinum-based chemotherapy. METHODS: Two cervical squamous carcinoma cell lines (SiHa and Caski) overexpressing APOA1 were constructed, treated with carboplatin, and compared to normal control cells. RESULTS: In both SiHa and Caski cell lines, the clone-forming ability of CBP-treated cells was lower than that of untreated cells, and the change in the number of clones of overexpressing cells was lower than that of normal control cells (p < 0.05), indicating that APOA1 overexpression enhanced chemoresistance. A screen for APOA1 downstream proteins affecting platinum-based chemoresistance using Tandem Mass Tag revealed 64 differentially expressed proteins in SiHa cells, which were subjected to Gene Ontology (annotation, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment, subcellular localization, structural domain annotation and enrichment, clustering, and interaction network analyses. Sixty-four differentially expressed proteins matching cancer-relavent association terms were screened and parallel response monitoring identified 29 proteins as possibly involved in the mechanism of platinum-based chemoresistance. CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggested that the mechanism may involve numerous regulatory pathways, including promoting tumor growth via the p38 MAPK signaling pathway through STAT1, promoting tumor progression via the PI3K signaling pathway through CD81 and C3, and promoting resistance to platinum-based chemotherapy resistance through TOP2A. The present study aimed to preliminarily explore the function and mechanism of APOA1 in platinum-based chemoresistance in cervical cancer, and the detailed mechanism needs to be further studied.
PXD022587	35422070	Hidden information on protein function in censuses of proteome foldedness. 	Surveyance of chaperone-client interactions via thiol labelling	denaturation, molecular chaperone, protein folding, tetraphenylethene maleimide (TPE-MI)	Methods that assay protein foldedness with proteomics have generated censuses of apparent protein folding stabilities in biological milieu. However, different censuses poorly correlate with each other. Here, we show that the reason for this is that methods targeting foldedness through monitoring amino acid sidechain reactivity also detect changes in conformation and ligand binding, which can be a substantial fraction of the data. We show that the reactivity of only one quarter of cysteine or methionine sidechains in proteins in a urea denaturation curve of mammalian cell lysate can be confidently explained by a two-state unfolding isotherm. Contrary to that expected from unfolding, up to one third of the cysteines decreased reactivity. These cysteines were enriched in proteins with functions relating to unfolded protein stress. One protein, chaperone HSPA8, displayed changes arising from ligand and cofactor binding. Unmasking this hidden information using the approaches outlined here should improve efforts to understand both folding and the remodeling of protein function directly in complex biological settings.
PXD030998	35425721	Metabolic Profiling of Interspecies Interactions During Sessile Bacterial Cultivation Reveals Growth and Sporulation Induction in Paenibacillus amylolyticus in Response to Xanthomonas retroflexus. 	Metabolic profiling of interspecies interactions during sessile bacterial cultivation reveals growth and sporulation induction in Paenibacillus amylolyticus in response to Xanthomonas retroflexus - Samples from Paenibacillus amylolyticus	Bacteria, Interspecies interactions sporulation	The toolbox available for microbiologists to study interspecies interactions is rapidly growing, and with continuously more advanced instruments, we are able to expand our knowledge on establishment and function of microbial communities. However, unravelling molecular interspecies interactions in complex biological systems remains a challenge, and interactions are therefore often studied in simplified communities. Here we perform an in-depth characterization of an observed interspecies interaction between two co-isolated bacteria, Xanthomonas retroflexus and Paenibacillus amylolyticus. Using microsensor measurements for mapping the chemical environment, we show how X. retroflexus promoted an alkalization of its local environment through degradation of amino acids and release of ammonia. When the two species were grown in proximity, the modified local environment induced a morphological change and growth of P. amylolyticus followed by sporulation. 2D spatial metabolomics enabled visualization and mapping of the degradation of oligopeptide structures by X. retroflexus and morphological changes of P. amylolyticus through e.g. the release of membrane-associated metabolites. Proteome analysis and microscopy were used to validate the shift from vegetative growth towards sporulation. In summary, we demonstrate how environmental profiling by combined application of microsensor, microscopy, metabolomics and proteomics approaches can reveal growth and sporulation promoting effects resulting from interspecies interactions.
PXD027138	35427468	Proteome-wide quantitative RNA-interactome capture identifies phosphorylation sites with regulatory potential in RBM20. 	Quantitative RNA interactome capture (qRIC) identifies phosphorylation sites with regulatory potential - RBM20 BioID	BioID, RBM20, SILAC	Cellular mRNA-binding proteins (mRBPs) are major posttranscriptional regulators of gene expression. Although many posttranslational modification sites in mRBPs have been identified, little is known about how these modifications regulate mRBP function. Here, we developed quantitative RNA-interactome capture (qRIC) to quantify the fraction of mRBPs pulled down with polyadenylated mRNAs. Combining qRIC with phosphoproteomics allowed us to systematically compare pull-down efficiencies of phosphorylated and nonphosphorylated forms of mRBPs. Almost 200 phosphorylation events affected pull-down efficiency compared with the unmodified mRBPs and thus have regulatory potential. Our data capture known regulatory phosphorylation sites in ELAVL1, SF3B1, and UPF1 and identify potential regulatory sites. Follow-up experiments on the splicing regulator RBM20 revealed multiple phosphorylation sites in the C-terminal disordered region affecting nucleocytoplasmic localization, association with cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein granules, and alternative splicing. Together, we show that qRIC in conjunction with phosphoproteomics is a scalable method to identify functional posttranslational modification sites in mRBPs.
PXD031252	35427647	Selective phosphorylation of threonine residues defines GPR84-arrestin interactions of biased ligands. 	GRK2/3-regulated, but not constitutive, phosphorylation of the G protein-coupled receptor GPR84 controls arrestin interactions and subsequent function	GPCR, phosphorylation	GPR84 is an immune cell-expressed, proinflammatory receptor currently being assessed as a therapeutic target in conditions including fibrosis and inflammatory bowel disease. Although it was previously shown that the orthosteric GPR84 activators 2-HTP and 6-OAU promoted its interactions with arrestin-3, a G protein-biased agonist DL-175 did not. Here, we show that replacement of all 21 serine and threonine residues within i-loop 3 of GPR84, but not the two serines in the C-terminal tail, eliminated the incorporation of [(32)P] and greatly reduced receptor-arrestin-3 interactions promoted by 2-HTP. GPR84 was phosphorylated constitutively on residues Ser(221) and Ser(224), while various other amino acids are phosphorylated in response to 2-HTP. Consistent with this, an antiserum able to identify pSer(221)/pSer(224) recognized GPR84 from cells treated with and without activators, whereas an antiserum able to identify pThr(263)/pThr(264) only recognized GPR84 after exposure to 2-HTP and not DL-175. Two distinct GPR84 antagonists as well as inhibition of G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2/3 prevented phosphorylation of pThr(263)/pThr(264), but neither strategy affected constitutive phosphorylation of Ser(221)/Ser(224). Furthermore, mutation of residues Thr(263) and Thr(264) to alanine generated a variant of GPR84 also limited in 2-HTP-induced interactions with arrestin-2 and -3. By contrast, this mutant was unaffected in its capacity to reduce cAMP levels. Taken together, these results define a key pair of threonine residues, regulated only by subsets of GPR84 small molecule activators and by GRK2/3 that define effective interactions with arrestins and provide novel tools to monitor the phosphorylation and functional status of GPR84.
PXD026737	35427813	New Global Insights on the Regulation of the Biphasic Life Cycle and Virulence Via ClpP-Dependent Proteolysis in Legionella pneumophila. 	Legionella pneumophila life stage-specific proteins regulated via ClpP-dependent	Legionella pneumophila, biphasic life cycle, effector protein, regulatory protein, substrate protein	Legionella pneumophila, an environmental bacterium that parasitizes protozoa, causes Legionnaires' disease in humans that is characterized by severe pneumonia. This bacterium adopts a distinct biphasic life cycle consisting of a nonvirulent replicative phase and a virulent transmissive phase in response to different environmental conditions. Hence, the timely and fine-tuned expression of growth and virulence factors in a life cycle-dependent manner is crucial for survival and replication. Here, we report that the completion of the biphasic life cycle and bacterial pathogenesis is greatly dependent on the protein homeostasis regulated by caseinolytic protease P (ClpP)-dependent proteolysis. We characterized the ClpP-dependent dynamic profiles of the regulatory and substrate proteins during the biphasic life cycle of L. pneumophila using proteomic approaches and discovered that ClpP-dependent proteolysis specifically and conditionally degraded the substrate proteins, thereby directly playing a regulatory role or indirectly controlling cellular events via the regulatory proteins. We further observed that ClpP-dependent proteolysis is required to monitor the abundance of fatty acid biosynthesis-related protein Lpg0102/Lpg0361/Lpg0362 and SpoT for the normal regulation of L. pneumophila differentiation. We also found that the control of the biphasic life cycle and bacterial virulence is independent. Furthermore, the ClpP-dependent proteolysis of Dot/Icm (defect in organelle trafficking/intracellular multiplication) type IVB secretion system and effector proteins at a specific phase of the life cycle is essential for bacterial pathogenesis. Therefore, our findings provide novel insights on ClpP-dependent proteolysis, which spans a broad physiological spectrum involving key metabolic pathways that regulate the transition of the biphasic life cycle and bacterial virulence of L. pneumophila, facilitating adaptation to aquatic and intracellular niches.
PXD030108	35432212	Salivary Glycopatterns as Potential Non-Invasive Biomarkers for Diagnosing and Reflecting Severity and Prognosis of Diabetic Nephropathy. 	Human saliva glycoproteins LC-MS to screen different glycopatterns in patients with DN or NDRD	Saliva,LC-MS	Discriminating between diabetic nephropathy (DN) and non-diabetic renal disease (NDRD) can help provide more specific treatments. However, there are no ideal biomarkers for their differentiation. Thus, the aim of this study was to identify biomarkers for diagnosing and predicting the progression of DN by investigating different salivary glycopatterns. Lectin microarrays were used to screen different glycopatterns in patients with DN or NDRD. The results were validated by lectin blotting. Logistic regression and artificial neural network analyses were used to construct diagnostic models and were validated in in another cohort. Pearson's correlation analysis, Cox regression, and Kaplan-Meier survival curves were used to analyse the correlation between lectins, and disease severity and progression. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and bioinformatics analyses were used to identify corresponding glycoproteins and predict their function. Both the logistic regression model and the artificial neural network model achieved high diagnostic accuracy. The levels of Aleuria aurantia lectin (AAL), Lycopersicon esculentum lectin (LEL), Lens culinaris lectin (LCA), Vicia villosa lectin (VVA), and Narcissus pseudonarcissus lectin (NPA) were significantly correlated with the clinical and pathological parameters related to DN severity. A high level of LCA and a low level of LEL were associated with a higher risk of progression to end-stage renal disease. Glycopatterns in the saliva could be a non-invasive tool for distinguishing between DN and NDRD. The AAL, LEL, LCA, VVA, and NPA levels could reflect the severity of DN, and the LEL and LCA levels could indicate the prognosis of DN.
PXD031908	35432380	Determinants of B-Cell Compartment Hyperactivation in European Adolescents Living With Perinatally Acquired HIV-1 After Over 10 Years of Suppressive Therapy. 	B-cell compartment hyperactivation in PHIV	B-cell hyperactivation, CD11c, T-bet, caHIV-1 RNA, exhausted T-cells, immune activation, late ART, perinatal HIV/AIDS, proteomic profiling	Background: Despite a successful antiretroviral therapy (ART), adolescents living with perinatally acquired HIV (PHIV) experience signs of B-cell hyperactivation with expansion of 'namely' atypical B-cell phenotypes, including double negative (CD27-IgD-) and termed age associated (ABCs) B-cells (T-bet+CD11c+), which may result in reduced cell functionality, including loss of vaccine-induced immunological memory and higher risk of developing B-cells associated tumors. In this context, perinatally HIV infected children (PHIV) deserve particular attention, given their life-long exposure to chronic immune activation. Methods: We studied 40 PHIV who started treatment by the 2(nd) year of life and maintained virological suppression for 13.5 years, with 5/40 patients experiencing transient elevation of the HIV-1 load in the plasma (Spike). We applied a multi-disciplinary approach including immunological B and T cell phenotype, plasma proteomics analysis, and serum level of anti-measles antibodies as functional correlates of vaccine-induced immunity. Results: Phenotypic signs of B cell hyperactivation were elevated in subjects starting ART later (%DN T-bet+CD11c+ p=0.03; %AM T-bet+CD11c+ p=0.02) and were associated with detectable cell-associated HIV-1 RNA (%AM T-bet+CD11c+ p=0.0003) and transient elevation of the plasma viral load (spike). Furthermore, B-cell hyperactivation appeared to be present in individuals with higher frequency of exhausted T-cells, in particular: %CD4 TIGIT+ were associated with %DN (p=0.008), %DN T-bet+CD11c+ (p=0.0002) and %AM T-bet+CD11c+ (p=0.002) and %CD4 PD-1 were associated with %DN (p=0.048), %DN T-bet+CD11c+ (p=0.039) and %AM T-bet+CD11c+ (p=0.006). The proteomic analysis revealed that subjects with expansion of these atypical B-cells and exhausted T-cells had enrichment of proteins involved in immune inflammation and complement activation pathways. Furthermore, we observed that higher levels of ABCs were associated a reduced capacity to maintain vaccine-induced antibody immunity against measles (%B-cells CD19+CD10- T-bet+, p=0.035). Conclusion: We identified that the levels of hyperactivated B cell subsets were strongly affected by time of ART start and associated with clinical, viral, cellular and plasma soluble markers. Furthermore, the expansion of ABCs also had a direct impact on the capacity to develop antibodies response following routine vaccination.
PXD031036	35433434	Mitochondrion-Localized SND1 Promotes Mitophagy and Liver Cancer Progression Through PGAM5. 	Indentification of SND1-binding proteins in PLC cells	SND1-binding proteins	Staphylococcal nuclease domain-containing protein 1 (SND1) is an evolutionarily conserved multifunctional protein that functions mainly in the nucleus and cytoplasm. However, whether SND1 regulates cellular activity through mitochondrial-related functions remains unclear. Herein, we demonstrate that SND1 is localized to mitochondria to promote phosphoglycerate mutase 5 (PGAM5)-mediated mitophagy. We find that SND1 is present in mitochondria based on mass spectrometry data and verified this phenomenon in different liver cancer cell types by performing organelle subcellular isolation. Specifically, The N-terminal amino acids 1-63 of SND1 serve as a mitochondrial targeting sequence (MTS), and the translocase of outer membrane 70 (TOM 70) promotes the import of SND1 into mitochondria. By immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS), we find that SND1 interacts with PGAM5 in mitochondria and is crucial for the binding of PGAM5 to dynamin-related protein 1 (DRP1). Importantly, we demonstrate that PGAM5 and SND1-MTS are required for SND1-mediated mitophagy under FCCP and glucose deprivation treatment as well as for SND1-mediated cell proliferation and tumor growth both in vitro and in vivo. Aberrant expression of SND1 and PGAM5 predicts poor outcomes in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients. Taken together, these findings establish a previously unappreciated role of SND1 and the association of mitochondrion-localized SND1 with PGAM5 in mitophagy and tumor progression.
PXD046176	35433435	The Comparable Microenvironment Shared by Colorectal Adenoma and Carcinoma: An Evidence of Stromal Proteomics. 	[HPP-2.0] The Comparable Microenvironment Shared by Colorectal Adenoma and Carcinoma: An Evidence of Stromal Proteomics	Colorectal Adenoma and Carcinoma	Tumor microenvironment (TME) is a key factor involved in cancer development and metastasis. In the TME of colorectal cancer (CRC), the gene expression status of stromal tissues could influence the CRC process from normal to adenoma then carcinoma; however, the expression status at the protein level has not yet been well evaluated. A total of 22 CRC patients were recruited for this study, and the tissue regions corresponding with adjacent, adenoma, and carcinoma were carefully excised by laser capture microdissection (LCM), including a patient with adenoma and carcinoma. The individual proteomes of this cohort were implemented by high-resolution mass spectrometer under data-independent acquisition (DIA) mode. A series of informatic analysis was employed to statistically seek the proteomic characteristics related with the stroma at different stages of CRC. The identified proteins in the colorectal stromal tissues were much less than and almost overlapped with that in the corresponding epithelial tissues; however, the patterns of protein abundance in the stroma were very distinct from those in the epithelium. Although qualitative and quantitative analysis delineated the epithelial proteins specifically typified in the adjacent, adenoma, and carcinoma, the informatics in the stroma led to another deduction that such proteomes were only divided into two patterns, adjacent- and adenoma/carcinoma-dependent. The comparable proteomes of colorectal adenoma and carcinoma were further confirmed by the bulk preparation- or individual LCM-proteomics. The biochemical features of the tumor stromal proteomes were characterized as enrichment of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, upregulated pathways of antigen presentation, and enhancement of immune signal interactions. Finally, the features of lymphoid lineages in tumor stroma were verified by tissue microarray (TMA). Based on the proteomic evidence, a hypothesis was raised that in the colorectal tissue, the TME of adenoma and carcinoma were comparable, whereas the key elements driving an epithelium from benign to malignant were likely decided by the changes of genomic mutations or/and expression within it.
PXD031797	35433678	Transcriptional, Post-Transcriptional, and Post-Translational Mechanisms Rewrite the Tubulin Code During Cardiac Hypertrophy and Failure. 	Transcriptional, post-transcriptional, and post-translational mechanisms rewrite the tubulin code during cardiac hypertrophy and failure	Cardiac Hypertrophy, Tubulin isoforms	A proliferated and post-translationally modified microtubule network underlies cellular growth in cardiac hypertrophy and contributes to contractile dysfunction in heart failure. Yet how the heart achieves this modified network is poorly understood. Determining how the "tubulin code"-the permutations of tubulin isoforms and post-translational modifications-is rewritten upon cardiac stress may provide new targets to modulate cardiac remodeling. Further, while tubulin can autoregulate its own expression, it is unknown if autoregulation is operant in the heart or tuned in response to stress. Here we use heart failure patient samples and murine models of cardiac remodeling to interrogate transcriptional, autoregulatory, and post-translational mechanisms that contribute to microtubule network remodeling at different stages of heart disease. We find that autoregulation is operant across tubulin isoforms in the heart and leads to an apparent disconnect in tubulin mRNA and protein levels in heart failure. We also find that within 4 h of a hypertrophic stimulus and prior to cardiac growth, microtubule detyrosination is rapidly induced to help stabilize the network. This occurs concomitant with rapid transcriptional and autoregulatory activation of specific tubulin isoforms and microtubule motors. Upon continued hypertrophic stimulation, there is an increase in post-translationally modified microtubule tracks and anterograde motors to support cardiac growth, while total tubulin content increases through progressive transcriptional and autoregulatory induction of tubulin isoforms. Our work provides a new model for how the tubulin code is rapidly rewritten to establish a proliferated, stable microtubule network that drives cardiac remodeling, and provides the first evidence of tunable tubulin autoregulation during pathological progression.
PXD032114	35433756	Candida albicans Multilocus Sequence Typing Clade I Contributes to the Clinical Phenotype of Vulvovaginal Candidiasis Patients. 	The proteomics of Candida albicans	Candida albicans	Candida albicans is the most frequent fungal species responsible for vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC), which exhibits distinct genetic diversity that is linked with the clinical phenotype. This study aimed to assess the genotypes and clinical characteristics of different C. albicans isolates from VVC patients. Based on multilocus sequence typing (MLST), clade 1 was identified as the largest C. albicans group, which appeared most frequently in recurrent VVC and treatment failure cases. Further study of antifungal susceptibility demonstrated that MLST clade 1 strains presented significantly higher drug resistance ability than non-clade 1 strains, which result from the overexpression of MDR1. The mRNA and protein expression levels of virulence-related genes were also significantly higher in clade 1 isolates than in non-clade 1 isolates. Proteomic analysis indicated that the protein stabilization pathway was significantly enriched in clade 1 strains and that RPS4 was a central regulator of proteins involved in stress resistance, adherence, and DNA repair, which all contribute to the resistance and virulence of MLST clade 1 strains. This study was the first attempt to compare the correlation mechanisms between C. albicans MLST clade 1 and non-clade 1 strains and the clinical phenotype, which is of great significance for VVC classification and treatment.
PXD029558	35434776	Meta-proteomic analysis of two mammoth's trunks by EVA technology and high-resolution mass spectrometry for an indirect picture of their habitat and the characterization of the collagen type I, alpha-1 and alpha-2 sequence. 	Meta-proteomic analysis of two mammoth's trunk for an indirect picture of their habitat and characterization of the alpha-1 type I collagen sequence	Paleoproteomic, collagen, high-resolution mass spectrometry, mammoth, meta-proteomics, non-invasive technique	The recent paleoproteomic studies, including paleo-metaproteomic analyses, improved our understanding of the dietary of ancient populations, the characterization of past human diseases, the reconstruction of the habitat of ancient species, but also provided new insights into the phylogenetic relationships between extant and extinct species. In this respect, the present work reports the results of the metaproteomic analysis performed on the middle part of a trunk, and on the portion of a trunk tip tissue of two different woolly mammoths some 30,000 years old. In particular, proteins were extracted by applying EVA (Ethylene-Vinyl Acetate studded with hydrophilic and hydrophobic resins) films to the surface of these tissues belonging to two Mammuthus primigenus specimens, discovered in two regions located in the Russian Far East, and then investigated via a shotgun MS-based approach. This approach allowed to obtain two interesting results: (i) an indirect description of the habitat of these two mammoths, and (ii) an improved characterization of the collagen type I, alpha-1 and alpha-2 chains (col1a1 and col1a2). Sequence characterization of the col1a1 and col1a2 highlighted some differences between M. primigenius and other Proboscidea together with the identification of three (two for col1a1, and one for col1a2) potentially diagnostic amino acidic mutations that could be used to reliably distinguish the Mammuthus primigenius with respect to the other two genera of elephantids (i.e., Elephas and Loxodonta), and the extinct American mastodon (i.e., Mammut americanum). The results were validated through the level of deamidation and other diagenetic chemical modifications of the sample peptides, which were used to discriminate the "original" endogenous peptides from contaminant ones. The data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange with identifier < PXD029558 > .
PXD027995	35438777	US Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 Epsilon Variant: Highly Transmissible but With an Adjusted Muted Host T-Cell Response. 	Functional Assessment of US SARS-CoV-2 L452R Epsilon Variant	COVID19, FAIMS, Vero	BACKGROUND: The multiple mutations comprising the epsilon variant demonstrate the independent convergent evolution of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2), with its spike protein mutation L452R present in the delta (L452R), kappa (L452R), and lambda (L452Q) variants. METHODS: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) variants were detected in 1017 patients using whole-genome sequencing and were assessed for outcome and severity. The mechanistic effects of the epsilon versus non-epsilon variants were investigated using a multiomic approach including cellular response assays and paired cell and host transcriptomic and proteomic profiling. RESULTS: We found that patients carrying the epsilon variant had increased mortality risk but not increased hospitalizations (P < .02). Cells infected with live epsilon compared with non-epsilon virus displayed increased sensitivity to neutralization antibodies in all patients but a slightly protective response in vaccinated individuals (P < .001). That the epsilon SARS-CoV-2 variant is more infectious but less virulent is supported mechanistically in the down-regulation of viral processing pathways seen by multiomic analyses. Importantly, this paired transcriptomics and proteomic profiling of host cellular response to live virus revealed an altered leukocyte response and metabolic messenger RNA processing with the epsilon variant. To ascertain host response to SARS-CoV-2 infection, primary COVID-19-positive nasopharyngeal samples were transcriptomically profiled and revealed a differential innate immune response (P < .001) and an adjusted T-cell response in patients carrying the epsilon variant (P < .002). In fact, patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 and those vaccinated with the BNT162b2 vaccine have comparable CD4+/CD8+ T-cell immune responses to the epsilon variant (P < .05). CONCLUSIONS: While the epsilon variant is more infectious, by altering viral processing, we showed that patients with COVID-19 have adapted their innate immune response to this fitter variant. A protective T-cell response molecular signature is generated by this more transmissible variant in both vaccinated and unvaccinated patients.
PXD028733	35439318	A Whole-Genome CRISPR Screen Identifies AHR Loss as a Mechanism of Resistance to a PARP7 Inhibitor. 	A whole genome CRISPR screen identifies AHR loss as a  mechanism of resistance to a PARP7 inhibitor	PARP7, TurboID	Inhibitors directed toward PARP1 and PARP2 are approved agents for the treatment of BRCA1 and BRCA2-related cancers. Other members of the PARP family have also been implicated in cancer and are being assessed as therapeutic targets in cancer and other diseases. Recently, an inhibitor of PARP7 (RBN-2397) has reached early-stage human clinical trials. Here, we performed a genome-wide CRISPR screen for genes that modify the response of cells to RBN-2397. We identify the polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon receptor AHR and multiple components of the cohesin complex as determinants of resistance to this agent. Activators and inhibitors of AHR modulate the cellular response to PARP7 inhibition, suggesting potential combination therapy approaches.
PXD029288	35439648	Quantitative phosphoproteomics reveals ectopic ATP synthase on mesenchymal stem cells to promote tumor progression via ERK/c-Fos pathway activation. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomics reveals the temporal phosphorylation network regulated via mesenchymal stem cells in the tumor microenvironment	Ectopic ATP synthase, MAPK, Mesenchymal stem cell, P2X7R, Phosphoproteomics, Tumor microenvironment, c-FOS	The tumor microenvironment (TME), which comprises cellular and noncellular components, is involved in the complex process of cancer development. Emerging evidence suggests that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), one of the vital regulators of the TME, foster tumor progression through paracrine secretion. However, the comprehensive phosphosignaling pathways that are mediated by MSC-secreting factors have not yet been fully established. In this study, we attempt to dissect the MSC-triggered mechanism in lung cancer using quantitative phosphoproteomics. A total of 1958 phosphorylation sites are identified in lung cancer cells stimulated with MSC-conditioned medium. Integrative analysis of the identified phosphoproteins and predicted kinases demonstrates that MSC-conditioned medium functionally promotes the proliferation and migration of lung cancer via the ERK/phospho-c-Fos-S374 pathway. Recent studies have reported that extracellular ATP accumulates in the TME and stimulates the P2X7R on the cancer cell membrane via purinergic signaling. We observe that ectopic ATP synthase is located on the surface of MSCs and excreted extracellular ATP into the lung cancer microenvironment to trigger the ERK/phospho-c-Fos-S374 pathway, which is consistent with these previous findings. Our results suggest that ectopic ATP synthase on the surface of MSCs releases extracellular ATP into the TME, which promotes cancer progression via activation of the ERK/phospho-c-Fos-S374 pathway.
PXD031371	35440107	Development of NanoLuc-targeting protein degraders and a universal reporter system to benchmark tag-targeted degradation platforms. 	NanoTACs: NanoLuc-Targeting Protein Degraders that Parallel Existing Technology	LC-MS, Protac	Modulation of protein abundance using tag-Targeted Protein Degrader (tTPD) systems targeting FKBP12(F36V) (dTAGs) or HaloTag7 (HaloPROTACs) are powerful approaches for preclinical target validation. Interchanging tags and tag-targeting degraders is important to achieve efficient substrate degradation, yet limited degrader/tag pairs are available and side-by-side comparisons have not been performed. To expand the tTPD repertoire we developed catalytic NanoLuc-targeting PROTACs (NanoTACs) to hijack the CRL4(CRBN) complex and degrade NanoLuc tagged substrates, enabling rapid luminescence-based degradation screening. To benchmark NanoTACs against existing tTPD systems we use an interchangeable reporter system to comparatively test optimal degrader/tag pairs. Overall, we find the dTAG system exhibits superior degradation. To align tag-induced degradation with physiology we demonstrate that NanoTACs limit MLKL-driven necroptosis. In this work we extend the tTPD platform to include NanoTACs adding flexibility to tTPD studies, and benchmark each tTPD system to highlight the importance of comparing each system against each substrate.
PXD031993	35440123	An anti-influenza A virus microbial metabolite acts by degrading viral endonuclease PA. 	An anti-influenza A virus microbial metabolite acts by degrading viral endonuclease PA	Influenza A virus, Proteolysis-targeting chimeras, TRIM25, antiviral drug, microbial metabolites, phenalenone derivatives	The emergence of new highly pathogenic and drug-resistant influenza strains urges the development of novel therapeutics for influenza A virus (IAV). Here, we report the discovery of an anti-IAV microbial metabolite called APL-16-5 that was originally isolated from the plant endophytic fungus Aspergillus sp. CPCC 400735. APL-16-5 binds to both the E3 ligase TRIM25 and IAV polymerase subunit PA, leading to TRIM25 ubiquitination of PA and subsequent degradation of PA in the proteasome. This mode of action conforms to that of a proteolysis targeting chimera which employs the cellular ubiquitin-proteasome machinery to chemically induce the degradation of target proteins. Importantly, APL-16-5 potently inhibits IAV and protects mice from lethal IAV infection. Therefore, we have identified a natural microbial metabolite with potent in vivo anti-IAV activity and the potential of becoming a new IAV therapeutic. The antiviral mechanism of APL-16-5 opens the possibility of improving its anti-IAV potency and specificity by adjusting its affinity for TRIM25 and viral PA protein through medicinal chemistry.
PXD023424	35440539	USP25 promotes pathological HIF-1-driven metabolic reprogramming and is a potential therapeutic target in pancreatic cancer. 	USP25 is a HIF-1 regulator and a therapeutic target in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	affinity, biotin, cancer, deubiquitylase, pancreas	Deubiquitylating enzymes (DUBs) play an essential role in targeted protein degradation and represent an emerging therapeutic paradigm in cancer. However, their therapeutic potential in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has not been explored. Here, we develop a DUB discovery pipeline, combining activity-based proteomics with a loss-of-function genetic screen in patient-derived PDAC organoids and murine genetic models. This approach identifies USP25 as a master regulator of PDAC growth and maintenance. Genetic and pharmacological USP25 inhibition results in potent growth impairment in PDAC organoids, while normal pancreatic organoids are insensitive, and causes dramatic regression of patient-derived xenografts. Mechanistically, USP25 deubiquitinates and stabilizes the HIF-1alpha transcription factor. PDAC is characterized by a severely hypoxic microenvironment, and USP25 depletion abrogates HIF-1alpha transcriptional activity and impairs glycolysis, inducing PDAC cell death in the tumor hypoxic core. Thus, the USP25/HIF-1alpha axis is an essential mechanism of metabolic reprogramming and survival in PDAC, which can be therapeutically exploited.
PXD030344	35440542	A proteogenomic analysis of clear cell renal cell carcinoma in a Chinese population. 	A Proteogenomic Analysis of Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma in a Chinese Population	ccRCC	Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is a common and aggressive subtype of renal cancer. Here we conduct a comprehensive proteogenomic analysis of 232 tumor and adjacent non-tumor tissue pairs from Chinese ccRCC patients. By comparing with tumor adjacent tissues, we find that ccRCC shows extensive metabolic dysregulation and an enhanced immune response. Molecular subtyping classifies ccRCC tumors into three subtypes (GP1-3), among which the most aggressive GP1 exhibits the strongest immune phenotype, increased metastasis, and metabolic imbalance, linking the multi-omics-derived phenotypes to clinical outcomes of ccRCC. Nicotinamide N-methyltransferase (NNMT), a one-carbon metabolic enzyme, is identified as a potential marker of ccRCC and a drug target for GP1. We demonstrate that NNMT induces DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) homocysteinylation, increases DNA repair, and promotes ccRCC tumor growth. This study provides insights into the biological underpinnings and prognosis assessment of ccRCC, revealing targetable metabolic vulnerabilities.
PXD029313	35440565	A leukemia-protective germline variant mediates chromatin module formation via transcription factor nucleation. 	rs143348853 in vitro DNA pulldown	DNA pulldown, genetic variant, indel, rs143348853	Non-coding variants coordinate transcription factor (TF) binding and chromatin mark enrichment changes over regions spanning >100 kb. These molecularly coordinated regions are named "variable chromatin modules" (VCMs), providing a conceptual framework of how regulatory variation might shape complex traits. To better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying VCM formation, here, we mechanistically dissect a VCM-modulating noncoding variant that is associated with reduced chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) predisposition and disease progression. This common, germline variant constitutes a 5-bp indel that controls the activity of an AXIN2 gene-linked VCM by creating a MEF2 binding site, which, upon binding, activates a super-enhancer-like regulatory element. This triggers a large change in TF binding activity and chromatin state at an enhancer cluster spanning >150 kb, coinciding with subtle, long-range chromatin compaction and robust AXIN2 up-regulation. Our results support a model in which the indel acts as an AXIN2 VCM-activating TF nucleation event, which modulates CLL pathology.
PXD031763	35440683	Silencing of STE20-type kinase STK25 in human aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells is atheroprotective. 	Silencing of STE20-Type Kinase STK25 in Human Aortic Endothelial and Smooth Muscle Cells is Atheroprotective	STK25, atherosclerosis, calcification, lipid accumulation, phenotypic switch	Recent studies highlight the importance of lipotoxic damage in aortic cells as the major pathogenetic contributor to atherosclerotic disease. Since the STE20-type kinase STK25 has been shown to exacerbate ectopic lipid storage and associated cell injury in several metabolic organs, we here investigate its role in the main cell types of vasculature. We depleted STK25 by small interfering RNA in human aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells exposed to oleic acid and oxidized LDL. In both cell types, the silencing of STK25 reduces lipid accumulation and suppresses activation of inflammatory and fibrotic pathways as well as lowering oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stress. Notably, in smooth muscle cells, STK25 inactivation hinders the shift from a contractile to a synthetic phenotype. Together, we provide several lines of evidence that antagonizing STK25 signaling in human aortic endothelial and smooth muscle cells is atheroprotective, highlighting this kinase as a new potential therapeutic target for atherosclerotic disease.
PXD022873	35441144	A novel screening strategy to identify histone methyltransferase inhibitors reveals a crosstalk between DOT1L and CARM1. 	A novel chemical biology high-content strategy for the identification of novel HMT inhibitors reveals a crosstalk between DOT1L and CARM1	Histone methyltransferases	Epigenetic regulation is a dynamic and reversible process that controls gene expression. Abnormal function results in human diseases such as cancer, thus the enzymes that establish epigenetic marks, such as histone methyltransferases (HMTs), are potentially therapeutic targets. Noteworthily, HMTs form multiprotein complexes that in concert regulate gene expression. To probe epigenetic protein complexes regulation in cells, we developed a reliable chemical biology high-content imaging strategy to screen compound libraries simultaneously on multiple histone marks inside cells. By this approach, we identified that compound 4, a published CARM1 inhibitor, inhibits both histone mark H3R2me2a, regulated also by CARM1, and H3K79me2, regulated only by DOT1L, pointing out a crosstalk between CARM1 and DOT1L. Based on this interaction, we combined compound 4 and DOT1L inhibitor EPZ-5676 resulting in a stronger inhibition of cell proliferation and increase in apoptosis, indicating that our approach identifies possible effective synergistic drug combinations.
PXD025640	35441693	Fungi hijack a ubiquitous plant apoplastic endoglucanase to release a ROS scavenging beta-glucan decasaccharide to subvert immune responses. 	Fungi hijack a plant apoplastic endoglucanase to release a ROS scavenging beta-glucan decasaccharide to subvert immune responses	EPS, Hordeum vulgare, Serendipita indica, endophyte, soluble extracellular polysaccharide matrix	Plant pathogenic and beneficial fungi have evolved several strategies to evade immunity and cope with host-derived hydrolytic enzymes and oxidative stress in the apoplast, the extracellular space of plant tissues. Fungal hyphae are surrounded by an inner insoluble cell wall layer and an outer soluble extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) matrix. Here, we show by proteomics and glycomics that these two layers have distinct protein and carbohydrate signatures, and hence likely have different biological functions. The barley (Hordeum vulgare) beta-1,3-endoglucanase HvBGLUII, which belongs to the widely distributed apoplastic glycoside hydrolase 17 family (GH17), releases a conserved beta-1,3;1,6-glucan decasaccharide (beta-GD) from the EPS matrices of fungi with different lifestyles and taxonomic positions. This low molecular weight beta-GD does not activate plant immunity, is resilient to further enzymatic hydrolysis by beta-1,3-endoglucanases due to the presence of three beta-1,6-linked glucose branches and can scavenge reactive oxygen species. Exogenous application of beta-GD leads to enhanced fungal colonization in barley, confirming its role in the fungal counter-defensive strategy to subvert host immunity. Our data highlight the hitherto undescribed capacity of this often-overlooked EPS matrix from plant-associated fungi to act as an outer protective barrier important for fungal accommodation within the hostile environment at the apoplastic plant-microbe interface.
PXD045941	35442643	Matrix Thermal Shift Assay for Fast Construction of Multidimensional Ligand-Target Space. 	[HPP-2.0] Matrix Thermal Shift Assay for Fast Construction of Multidimensional Ligand-Target Space	Ligand-Target Protein Interaction	Existing thermal shift-based mass spectrometry approaches are able to identify target proteins without chemical modification of the ligand, but they are suffering from complicated workflows with limited throughput. Herein, we present a new thermal shift-based method, termed matrix thermal shift assay (mTSA), for fast deconvolution of ligand-binding targets and binding affinities at the proteome level. In mTSA, a sample matrix, treated horizontally with five different compound concentrations and vertically with five technical replicates of each condition, was denatured at a single temperature to induce protein precipitation, and then, data-independent acquisition was employed for quick protein quantification. Compared with previous thermal shift assays, the analysis throughput of mTSA was significantly improved, but the costs as well as efforts were reduced. More importantly, the matrix experiment design allowed simultaneous computation of the statistical significance and fitting of the dose-response profiles, which can be combined to enable a more accurate identification of target proteins, as well as reporting binding affinities between the ligand and individual targets. Using a pan-specific kinase inhibitor, staurosporine, we demonstrated a 36% improvement in screening sensitivity over the traditional thermal proteome profiling (TPP) and a comparable sensitivity with a latest two-dimensional TPP. Finally, mTSA was successfully applied to delineate the target landscape of perfluorooctanesulfonic acid (PFOS), a persistent organic pollutant that is hard to perform modification on, and revealed several potential targets that might account for the toxicities of PFOS.
PXD028261	35442741	A somatic mutation in moesin drives progression into acute myeloid leukemia. 	Interactome of MSN mutations in leukemic cells		Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) arises when leukemia-initiating cells, defined by a primary genetic lesion, acquire subsequent molecular changes whose cumulative effects bypass tumor suppression. The changes that underlie AML pathogenesis not only provide insights into the biology of transformation but also reveal novel therapeutic opportunities. However, backtracking these events in transformed human AML samples is challenging, if at all possible. Here, we approached this question using a murine in vivo model with an MLL-ENL fusion protein as a primary molecular event. Upon clonal transformation, we identified and extensively verified a recurrent codon-changing mutation (Arg(295)Cys) in the ERM protein moesin that markedly accelerated leukemogenesis. Human cancer-associated moesin mutations at the conserved arginine-295 residue similarly enhanced MLL-ENL-driven leukemogenesis. Mechanistically, the mutation interrupted the stability of moesin and conferred a neomorphic activity to the protein, which converged on enhanced extracellular signal-regulated kinase activity. Thereby, our studies demonstrate a critical role of ERM proteins in AML, with implications also for human cancer.
PXD031845	35443134	Cell Surface Engineering Enables Surfaceome Profiling. 	Cell Surface Engineering Enables Surfaceome Profiling	PDAC, Proximity Labeling, Surfaceome	Cell surface proteins (CSPs) are vital molecular mediators for cells and their extracellular environment. Thus, understanding which CSPs are displayed on cells, especially in different cell states, remains an important endeavor in cell biology. Here, we describe the integration of cell surface engineering with radical-mediated protein biotinylation to profile CSPs. This method relies on the prefunctionalization of cells with cholesterol lipid groups, followed by sortase-catalyzed conjugation with an APEX2 ascorbate peroxidase enzyme. In the presence of biotin-phenol and H2O2, APEX2 catalyzes the formation of highly reactive biotinyl radicals that covalently tag electron-rich residues within CSPs for subsequent streptavidin-based enrichment and analysis by quantitative mass spectrometry. While APEX2 is traditionally used to capture proximity-based interactomes, we envisioned using it in a "baitless" manner on cell surfaces to capture CSPs. We evaluate this strategy in light of another CSP labeling method that relies on the presence of cell surface sialic acid. Using the APEX2 strategy, we describe the CSPs found in three mammalian cell lines and compare CSPs in adherent versus three-dimensional pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells.
PXD016636	35443170	A presynaptic phosphosignaling hub for lasting homeostatic plasticity. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of mouse neurons with SRPK2 overexpression or knockdown	SRPK2, brain, phosphorylation	Stable function of networks requires that synapses adapt their strength to levels of neuronal activity, and failure to do so results in cognitive disorders. How such homeostatic regulation may be implemented in mammalian synapses remains poorly understood. Here we show that the phosphorylation status of several positions of the active-zone (AZ) protein RIM1 are relevant for synaptic glutamate release. Position RIMS1045 is necessary and sufficient for expression of silencing-induced homeostatic plasticity and is kept phosphorylated by serine arginine protein kinase 2 (SRPK2). SRPK2-induced upscaling of synaptic release leads to additional RIM1 nanoclusters and docked vesicles at the AZ and is not observed in the absence of RIM1 and occluded by RIM(S1045E). Our data suggest that SRPK2 and RIM1 represent a presynaptic phosphosignaling hub that is involved in the homeostatic balance of synaptic coupling of neuronal networks.
PXD032116	35446574	Evaluation of the Suitability of Dried Saliva Spots for In-Depth Proteome Analyses for Clinical Applications. 	Evaluation of suitability of dried saliva spots for in-depth proteome analyses of clinical applications - Additional file	DSS, Dried saliva spot, dried blood spot, saliva, whole saliva	Previously, we performed nontargeted proteome analysis using dried blood spots (DBSs) that are widely used in newborn screening for the clinical diagnosis of congenital genetic diseases and immunodeficiency. We have developed an efficient and simple pretreatment method for DBSs that can detect more than 1000 proteins. To complement proteins that are difficult to detect via DBS analysis with less invasive alternative body fluids, we conducted this study to investigate the proteins detected from dried saliva spots (DSSs) using single-shot LC-MS/MS, which is practical in clinical settings. We also clarified whether DSSs have the same advantages as DBSs, and we investigated the influence of saliva collection conditions and the storage environment on their protein profile. As a result, we detected approximately 5000 proteins in DSSs and whole saliva, and we concluded that they were sufficient to complement the proteins lacking in the blood analysis. DSSs could be used as an alternative tool to DBSs for detecting the presence of causative proteins.
PXD023829	35447091	Multilayered omics reveal sex- and depot-dependent adipose progenitor cell heterogeneity. 	Multilayered Omics Revealsl Sex- and Depot-Dependent Adipose Progenitor Cell Heterogeneity	Multilayered omics, PPARï§., adipocyte precursor cells, adipogenesis, cellular heterogeneity, inflammation, preadipocytes	Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) has revealed that adult white adipose tissue (WAT) harbors functionally diverse subpopulations of mesenchymal stromal cells that differentially impact tissue plasticity. To date, the molecular basis of this cellular heterogeneity has not been fully defined. Here, we describe a multilayered omics approach to dissect adipose progenitor cell heterogeneity in three dimensions: progenitor subpopulation, sex, and anatomical localization. We applied state-of-the-art mass spectrometry methods to quantify 4,870 proteins in eight different stromal cell populations from perigonadal and inguinal WAT of male and female mice and acquired transcript expression levels of 15,477 genes using RNA-seq. Our data unveil molecular signatures defining sex differences in preadipocyte differentiation and identify regulatory pathways that functionally distinguish adipose progenitor subpopulations. This multilayered omics analysis, freely accessible at http://preadprofiler.net/, provides unprecedented insights into adipose stromal cell heterogeneity and highlights the benefit of complementary proteomics to support findings from scRNA-seq studies.
PXD030865	35447118	Identification of distinct N-glycosylation patterns on extracellular vesicles from small-cell and non-small-cell lung cancer cells. 	Identification of Distinct N-Glycosylation Patterns on Extracellular Vesicles from Small-Cell and Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Cells	Human Cancer Small extracellular vesicles	Asparagine-linked glycosylation (N-glycosylation) of proteins in the cancer secretome has been gaining increasing attention as a potential biomarker for cancer detection and diagnosis. Small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) constitute a large part of the cancer secretome, yet little is known about whether their N-glycosylation status reflects known cancer characteristics. Here, we investigated the N-glycosylation of sEVs released from small-cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) and non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) cells. We found that the N-glycans of SCLC-sEVs were characterized by the presence of structural units also found in the brain N-glycome, while NSCLC-sEVs were dominated by typical lung-type N-glycans with NSCLC-associated core fucosylation. In addition, lectin-assisted N-glycoproteomics of SCLC-sEVs and NSCLC-sEVs revealed that integrin alphaV was commonly expressed in sEVs of both cancer cell types, while the epithelium-specific integrin alpha6beta4 heterodimer was selectively expressed in NSCLC-sEVs. Importantly, N-glycomics of the immunopurified integrin alpha6 from NSCLC-sEVs identified NSCLC-type N-glycans on this integrin subunit. Thus, we conclude that protein N-glycosylation in lung cancer sEVs may potentially reflect the histology of lung cancers.
PXD025947	35447332	Detection of biological responses to low-dose radiation in humans. 	Quantification of oxidative modification of human serum albumin by MRM-HR	MRM-HR, serum	It has been considered difficult to detect the biological effects of low-dose radiation exposure below approximately 100 mSv in humans. Serum proteomic analysis and oxidative modification profiling were conducted with blood samples collected from residents of a newly discovered high-level natural background radiation area (annual effective dose approximately 50 mSv y(-1)) and normal-level area (1.22 mSv y(-1)) in Mamuju, Indonesia, where many people have been living for generations. Dose-dependent oxidative modifications in amino acid sequences of human serum albumin, especially the 162(nd) and 356(th) tyrosine residues and 111(th) and 470(th) methionine residues, were found. None of these findings have been reported in humans exposed to chronic low-dose radiation. It can be used as a biomarker not only for the assessment of the presence or absence of radiation exposure but also for dose prediction in living organisms for chronic radiation. These results suggest that traces of radiation exposure are recorded in serum albumin and that there is a possibility of a new methodology that can evaluate biological responses below 100 mSv.
PXD023430	35448601	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Rhizoctonia solani Isolates Identifies the Differentially Expressed Proteins with Roles in Virulence. 	Comparative proteomics analysis of virulent and   less virulent strains of Rhizoctonia solani	Rhizoctonia solani, Virulence	Sheath blight of rice is a destructive disease that could be calamitous to rice cultivation. The significant objective of this study is to contemplate the proteomic analysis of the high virulent and less virulent isolate of Rhizoctonia solani using a quantitative LC-MS/MS-based proteomic approach to identify the differentially expressed proteins promoting higher virulence. Across several rice-growing regions in Odisha, Eastern India, 58 Rhizoctonia isolates were obtained. All the isolates varied in their pathogenicity. The isolate RS15 was found to be the most virulent and RS22 was identified as the least virulent. The PCR amplification confirmed that the RS15 and RS22 belonged to the Rhizoctonia subgroup of AG1-IA with a specific primer. The proteomic information generated has been deposited in the PRIDE database with PXD023430. The virulent isolate consisted of 48 differentially abundant proteins, out of which 27 proteins had higher abundance, while 21 proteins had lower abundance. The analyzed proteins acquired functionality in fungal development, sporulation, morphology, pathogenicity, detoxification, antifungal activity, essential metabolism and transcriptional activities, protein biosynthesis, glycolysis, phosphorylation and catalytic activities in fungi. A Quantitative Real-Time PCR (qRT-PCR) was used to validate changes in differentially expressed proteins at the mRNA level for selected genes. The abundances of proteins and transcripts were positively correlated. This study provides the role of the proteome in the pathogenicity of R. solani AG1-IA in rice and underpins the mechanism behind the pathogen's virulence in causing sheath blight disease.
PXD025099	35449234	Snapshots of actin and tubulin folding inside the TRiC chaperonin. 	Facilitating in situ cross-linking and mass spectrometry by antibody-based protein enrichment	Antibody, CL-MS	The integrity of a cell's proteome depends on correct folding of polypeptides by chaperonins. The chaperonin TCP-1 ring complex (TRiC) acts as obligate folder for >10% of cytosolic proteins, including he cytoskeletal proteins actin and tubulin. Although its architecture and how it recognizes folding substrates are emerging from structural studies, the subsequent fate of substrates inside the TRiC chamber is not defined. We trapped endogenous human TRiC with substrates (actin, tubulin) and cochaperone (PhLP2A) at different folding stages, for structure determination by cryo-EM. The already-folded regions of client proteins are anchored at the chamber wall, positioning unstructured regions toward the central space to achieve their native fold. Substrates engage with different sections of the chamber during the folding cycle, coupled to TRiC open-and-close transitions. Further, the cochaperone PhLP2A modulates folding, acting as a molecular strut between substrate and TRiC chamber. Our structural snapshots piece together an emerging model of client protein folding within TRiC.
PXD030665	35452598	The nuclear receptor THRB facilitates differentiation of human PSCs into more mature hepatocytes. 	A nuclear receptor facilitates differentiation of human PSCs into more mature hepatocytes	THRB interacting proteins, THRB-FLAG-HepG2	To understand the mechanisms regulating the in vitro maturation of hPSC-derived hepatocytes, we developed a 3D differentiation system and compared gene regulatory elements in human primary hepatocytes with those in hPSC-hepatocytes that were differentiated in 2D or 3D conditions by RNA-seq, ATAC-seq, and H3K27Ac ChIP-seq. Regulome comparisons showed a reduced enrichment of thyroid receptor THRB motifs in accessible chromatin and active enhancers without a reduced transcription of THRB. The addition of thyroid hormone T3 increased the binding of THRB to the CYP3A4 proximal enhancer, restored the super-enhancer status and gene expression of NFIC, and reduced the expression of AFP. The resultant hPSC-hepatocytes showed gene expression, epigenetic status, and super-enhancer landscape closer to primary hepatocytes and activated regulatory regions including non-coding SNPs associated with liver-related diseases. Transplanting the hPSC-hepatocytes resulted in the engraftment of human hepatocytes into the mouse liver without disrupting normal liver histology. This work implicates the environmental factor-nuclear receptor axis in regulating the maturation of hPSC-hepatocytes.
PXD032126	35452683	EGLN1 prolyl hydroxylation of hypoxia-induced transcription factor HIF1alpha is repressed by SET7-catalyzed lysine methylation. 	Repression of EGLN1 activity by SET7-catalyzed methylation	EGLN1, SET7, methylation	Egg-laying defective nine 1 (EGLN1) functions as an oxygen sensor to catalyze prolyl hydroxylation of the transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha under normoxia conditions, leading to its proteasomal degradation. Thus, EGLN1 plays a central role in the hypoxia-inducible factor-mediated hypoxia signaling pathway; however, the posttranslational modifications that control EGLN1 function remain largely unknown. Here, we identified that a lysine monomethylase, SET7, catalyzes EGLN1 methylation on lysine 297, resulting in the repression of EGLN1 activity in catalyzing prolyl hydroxylation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha. Notably, we demonstrate that the methylation mimic mutant of EGLN1 loses the capability to suppress the hypoxia signaling pathway, leading to the enhancement of cell proliferation and the oxygen consumption rate. Collectively, our data identify a novel modification of EGLN1 that is critical for inhibiting its enzymatic activity and which may benefit cellular adaptation to conditions of hypoxia.
PXD030883	35453532	Mycobacterium tuberculosis Affects Protein and Lipid Content of Circulating Exosomes in Infected Patients Depending on Tuberculosis Disease State. 	Protein composition of circulating exosomes depend on tuberculosis disease state	apolipoproteins, exosomes, immunoglobulins, mycobacterium tuberculosis, plasma, tuberculosis	Tuberculosis (TB), which is caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb), is still one of the deadliest infectious diseases. Understanding how the host and pathogen interact in active TB will have a significant impact on global TB control efforts. Exosomes are increasingly recognized as a means of cell-to-cell contact and exchange of soluble mediators. In the case of TB, exosomes are released from the bacillus and infected cells. In the present study, a comprehensive lipidomics and proteomics analysis of size exclusion chromatography-isolated plasma-derived exosomes from patients with TB lymphadenitis (TBL) and treated as well as untreated pulmonary TB (PTB) was performed to elucidate the possibility to utilize exosomes in diagnostics and knowledge building. According to our findings, exosome-derived lipids and proteins originate from both the host and Mtb in the plasma of active TB patients. Exosomes from all patients are mostly composed of sphingomyelins (SM), phosphatidylcholines, phosphatidylinositols, free fatty acids, triacylglycerols (TAG), and cholesterylesters. Relative proportions of, e.g., SMs and TAGs, vary depending on the disease or treatment state and could be linked to Mtb pathogenesis and dormancy. We identified three proteins of Mtb origin: DNA-directed RNA polymerase subunit beta (RpoC), Diacyglycerol O-acyltransferase (Rv2285), and Formate hydrogenase (HycE), the latter of which was discovered to be differently expressed in TBL patients. Furthermore, we discovered that Mtb infection alters the host protein composition of circulating exosomes, significantly affecting a total of 37 proteins. All TB patients had low levels of apolipoproteins, as well as the antibacterial proteins cathelicidin, Scavenger Receptor Cysteine Rich Family Member (SSC5D), and Ficolin 3 (FCN3). When compared to healthy controls, the protein profiles of PTB and TBL were substantially linked, with 14 proteins being co-regulated. However, adhesion proteins (integrins, Intercellular adhesion molecule 2 (ICAM2), CD151, Proteoglycan 4 (PRG4)) were shown to be more prevalent in PTB patients, while immunoglobulins, Complement component 1r (C1R), and Glutamate receptor-interacting protein 1 (GRIP1) were found to be more abundant in TBL patients, respectively. This study could confirm findings from previous reports and uncover novel molecular profiles not previously in focus of TB research. However, we applied a minimally invasive sampling and analysis of circulating exosomes in TB patients. Based on the findings given here, future studies into host-pathogen interactions could pave the way for the development of new vaccines and therapies.
PXD032719	35454164	Hypoxia Alters the Proteome Profile and Enhances the Angiogenic Potential of Dental Pulp Stem Cell-Derived Exosomes. 	Proteomic Analysis of dental pulp stem cell-derived exosomes	dental pulp stem cells,exosomes,hypoxia	Dental pulp stem cells (DPSCs) and their exosomes (Exos) are effective treatments for regenerative medicine. Hypoxia was confirmed to improve the angiogenic potential of stem cells. However, the angiogenic effect and mechanism of hypoxia-preconditioned DPSC-Exos are poorly understood. We isolated exosomes from DPSCs under normoxia (Nor-Exos) and hypoxia (Hypo-Exos) and added them to human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). HUVEC proliferation, migration and angiogenic capacity were assessed by CCK-8, transwell, tube formation assays, qRT-PCR and Western blot. iTRAQ-based proteomics and bioinformatic analysis were performed to investigate proteome profile differences between Nor-Exos and Hypo-Exos. Western blot, immunofluorescence and immunohistochemistry were used to detect the expression of lysyl oxidase-like 2 (LOXL2) in vitro and in vivo. Finally, we silenced LOXL2 in HUVECs and rescued tube formation with Hypo-Exos. Hypo-Exos enhanced HUVEC proliferation, migration and tube formation in vitro superior to Nor-Exos. The proteomics analysis identified 79 proteins with significantly different expression in Hypo-Exos, among which LOXL2 was verified as being upregulated in hypoxia-preconditioned DPSCs, Hypo-Exos, and inflamed dental pulp. Hypo-Exos partially rescued the inhibitory influence of LOXL2 silence on HUVEC tube formation. In conclusion, hypoxia enhanced the angiogenic potential of DPSCs-Exos and partially altered their proteome profile. LOXL2 is likely involved in Hypo-Exos mediated angiogenesis.
PXD031995	35454731	Identification of Potential Peptide Marker(s) for Evaluating Pork Meat Freshness via Mass Spectrometry-Based Peptidomics during Storage under Different Temperatures. 	Novel peptidomics-based evaluation of pork freshness via a potential peptide biomarker	Pork meat, biomarker, freshness, peptide, peptidomics	This study applied peptidomics to investigate potential biomarkers for evaluating pork-meat freshness. The spoilage time points of pork meat stored at -2, 4, 10, and 25 degreesC were defined by evaluating meat freshness indicators (color, total viable count, pH, and total volatile basic nitrogen). Peptide MVHMASKE was identified as a potential peptide marker via multivariate analysis. Pearson correlation revealed a negative correlation between intensity of MVHMASKE and total viable count/total volatile basic nitrogen. In addition, the correlation between peptide content and the change in pork-meat freshness was verified using real-life samples, and the content of MVHMASKE showed a significant decline during storage under 4 and 25 degreesC, correspondingly reflecting the change of pork meat from fresh to spoiled. This study provides favorable evidence to evaluate pork-meat freshness by monitoring the change of peptide MVHMASKE in content based on mass spectrometry-based peptidomics.
PXD030180	35454872	Combined Alcohol Exposure and KRAS Mutation in Human Pancreatic Ductal Epithelial Cells Induces Proliferation and Alters Subtype Signatures Determined by Multi-Omics Analysis. 	Proteomics of KRAS mutated and non-transformed pancreas cells treated with ethanol	Ethanol, KRAS, Pancreas, TMT	Pancreatic Ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive cancer commonly exhibiting KRAS-activating mutations. Alcohol contributes to the risk of developing PDAC in humans, and murine models have shown alcohol consumption in the context of KRAS mutation in the pancreas promotes the development of PDAC. The molecular signatures in pancreas cells altered by alcohol exposure in the context of mutant KRAS could identify pathways related to the etiology of PDAC. In this study, we evaluated the combined effects of alcohol exposure and KRAS mutation status on the transcriptome and proteome of pancreatic HPNE cell models. These analyses identified alterations in transcription and translational processes in mutant KRAS cells exposed to alcohol. In addition, multi-omics analysis suggests an increase in the correlation between mRNA transcript and protein abundance in cells exposed to alcohol with an underlying KRAS mutation. Through differential co-expression, SERPINE1 was found to be influential for PDAC development in the context of mutant KRAS and ethanol. In terms of PDAC subtypes, alcohol conditioning of HPNE cells expressing mutant KRAS decreases the Inflammatory subtype signature and increases the Proliferative and Metabolic signatures, as we previously observed in patient samples. The alterations in molecular subtypes were associated with an increased sensitivity to chemotherapeutic agents gemcitabine, irinotecan, and oxaliplatin. These results provide a framework for distinguishing the molecular dysregulation associated with combined alcohol and mutant KRAS in a pancreatic cell line model.
PXD017902	35454907	Application of Proteogenomics to Urine Analysis towards the Identification of Novel Biomarkers of Prostate Cancer: An Exploratory Study. 	Characterization of the human urine proteome in Prostate Cancer	prostate cancer, urine	To identify new protein targets for PCa detection, first, a shotgun discovery experiment was performed to characterize the urinary proteome of PCa patients. This revealed 18 differentially abundant urinary proteins in PCa patients. Second, selected targets were clinically tested by immunoblot, and the soluble E-cadherin fragment was detected for the first time in the urine of PCa patients. Third, the proteogenome landscape of these PCa patients was characterized, revealing 1665 mutant protein isoforms. Statistical analysis revealed 6 differentially abundant mutant protein isoforms in PCa patients. Analysis of the likely effects of mutations on protein function and PPIs involving the dysregulated mutant protein isoforms suggests a protective role of mutations HSPG2*Q1062H and VASN*R161Q and an adverse role of AMBP*A286G and CD55*S162L in PCa patients. This work originally characterized the urinary proteome, focusing on the proteogenome profile of PCa patients, which is usually overlooked in the analysis of PCa and body fluids. Combined analysis of mass spectrometry data using two different software packages was performed for the first time in the context of PCa, which increased the robustness of the data analysis. The application of proteogenomics to urine proteomic analysis can be very enriching in mutation-related diseases such as cancer.
PXD005796	35454931	Identification of TPM2 and CNN1 as Novel Prognostic Markers in Functionally Characterized Human Colon Cancer-Associated Stromal Cells. 	Membrane-bound TGF-beta on tumor-associated mesenchymal stem-like cells initiates epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition in human colorectal cancer	TMT, colorectal cancer, stem cells	Stromal infiltration is associated with poor prognosis in human colon cancers. However, the high heterogeneity of human tumor-associated stromal cells (TASCs) hampers a clear identification of specific markers of prognostic relevance. To address these issues, we established short-term cultures of TASCs and matched healthy mucosa-associated stromal cells (MASCs) from human primary colon cancers and, upon characterization of their phenotypic and functional profiles in vitro and in vivo, we identified differentially expressed markers by proteomic analysis and evaluated their prognostic significance. TASCs were characterized by higher proliferation and differentiation potential, and enhanced expression of mesenchymal stem cell markers, as compared to MASCs. TASC triggered epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) in tumor cells in vitro and promoted their metastatic spread in vivo, as assessed in an orthotopic mouse model. Proteomic analysis of matched TASCs and MASCs identified a panel of markers preferentially expressed in TASCs. The expression of genes encoding two of them, calponin 1 (CNN1) and tropomyosin beta chain isoform 2 (TPM2), was significantly associated with poor outcome in independent databases and outperformed the prognostic significance of currently proposed TASC markers. The newly identified markers may improve prognostication of primary colon cancers and identification of patients at risk.
PXD031241	35455962	Post-COVID Complications after Pressure Ulcer Surgery in Patients with Spinal Cord Injury Associate with Creatine Kinase Upregulation in Adipose Tissue. 	Post-covid surgical complications in adipose tissue	COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, adipose tissue, pressure ulcers, spinal cord injury, surgery	The risk of complications following surgical procedures is significantly increased in patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. However, the mechanisms underlying these correlations are not fully known. Spinal cord injury (SCI) patients who underwent reconstructive surgery for pressure ulcers (PUs) before and during the COVID-19 pandemic were included in this study. The patient's postoperative progression was registered, and the subcutaneous white adipose tissue (s-WAT) surrounding the ulcers was analyzed by proteomic and immunohistochemical assays to identify the molecular/cellular signatures of impaired recovery. Patients with SCI and a COVID-19-positive diagnosis showed worse recovery and severe postoperative complications, requiring reintervention. Several proteins were upregulated in the adipose tissue of these patients. Among them, CKMT2 and CKM stood out, and CKM increased for up to 60 days after the COVID-19 diagnosis. Moreover, CKMT2 and CKM were largely found in MGCs within the s-WAT of COVID patients. Some of these proteins presented post-translational modifications and were targeted by autoantibodies in the serum of COVID patients. Overall, our results indicate that CKMT2, CKM, and the presence of MGCs in the adipose tissue surrounding PUs in post-COVID patients could be predictive biomarkers of postsurgical complications. These results suggest that the inflammatory response in adipose tissue may underlie the defective repair seen after surgery.
PXD032706	35456018	Modern Metaproteomics: A Unique Tool to Characterize the Active Microbiome in Health and Diseases, and Pave the Road towards New Biomarkers-Example of Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis Flare-Ups. 	Modern Metaproteomics: A Unique Tool to Characterize the Active Microbiome in Health and Diseases, and Pave the Road towards New Biomarkers. Example of Crohn's Disease and Ulcerative Colitis Flare-ups	Crohns disease, biomarkers, metaproteomics, ulcerative colitis	Thanks to the latest developments in mass spectrometry, software and standards, metaproteomics is emerging as the vital complement of metagenomics, to make headway in understanding the actual functioning of living and active microbial communities. Modern metaproteomics offers new possibilities in the area of clinical diagnosis. This is illustrated here, for the still highly challenging diagnosis of intestinal bowel diseases (IBDs). Using bottom-up proteomics, we analyzed the gut metaproteomes of the same twenty faecal specimens processed either fresh or after a two-month freezing period. We focused on metaproteomes of microbial cell envelopes since it is an outstanding way of capturing host and host-microbe interaction signals. The protein profiles of pairs of fresh and frozen-thawed samples were closely related, making feasible deferred analysis in a distant diagnosis centre. The taxonomic and functional landscape of microbes in diverse IBD phenotypes-active ulcerative colitis, or active Crohn's disease either with ileo-colonic or exclusive colonic localization-differed from each other and from the controls. Based on their specific peptides, we could identify proteins that were either strictly overrepresented or underrepresented in all samples of one clinical group compared to all samples of another group, paving the road for promising additional diagnostic tool for IBDs.
PXD025898	35456598	NMS-873 Leads to Dysfunctional Glycometabolism in A p97-Independent Manner in HCT116 Colon Cancer Cells. 	NMS-873 leads to dysfunctional glycometabolism in a p97-independent manner	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), glycometabolism, p97 inhibitor, protein stability, resistance	Adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-competitive p97 inhibitor CB-5339, the successor of CB-5083, is being evaluated in Phase 1 clinical trials for anti-cancer therapy. Different modes-of-action p97 inhibitors such as allosteric inhibitors are useful to overcome drug-induced resistance, one of the major problems of targeted therapy. We previously demonstrated that allosteric p97 inhibitor NMS-873 can overcome CB-5083-induced resistance in HCT116. Here we employed chemical proteomics and drug-induced thermal proteome changes to identify drug targets, in combination with drug-resistant cell lines to dissect on- and off-target effects. We found that NMS-873 but not CB-5083 affected glycometabolism. By establishing NMS-873-resistant HCT116 cell lines and performing both cell-based and proteomic analysis, we confirmed that NMS-873 dysregulates glycometabolism in a p97-independent manner. We then used proteome integral solubility alteration with a temperature-based method (PISA T) to identify NDUFAF5 as one of the potential targets of NMS-873 in the mitochondrial complex I. We also demonstrated that glycolysis inhibitor 2-DG enhanced the anti-proliferative effect of NMS-873. The polypharmacology of NMS-873 can be advantageous for anti-cancer therapy for colon cancer.
PXD031583	35456770	Identification and Characterization of Marine Microorganisms by Tandem Mass Spectrometry Proteotyping. 	Proteomic analysis of Balneola and Vibrio isolates	Balneola, Vibrio, bacterium, marine bacteria, phylopeptidomics, proteotyping	The vast majority of marine microorganisms and their functions are yet to be explored. The considerable diversity they encompass is an endless source of knowledge and wealth that can be valued on an industrial scale, emphasizing the need to develop rapid and efficient identification and characterization techniques. In this study, we identified 26 microbial isolates from coastal water of the NW Mediterranean Sea, using phylopeptidomics, a cutting-edge tandem mass spectrometry proteotyping technique. Taxonomical identification at the species level was successfully conducted for all isolates. The presence of strains belonging to the newly described Balneolaeota phylum, yet uncharacterized at the proteomics scale, was noted. The very first proteomics-based investigation of a representative of the Balneolaeota phylum, Balneola vulgaris, is proposed, demonstrating the use of our proteotyping workflow for the rapid identification and in-depth molecular characterization, in a single MS/MS analytical run. Tandem mass spectrometry proteotyping is a valuable asset for culturomic programs as the methodology is able to quickly classify the most atypical isolates.
PXD029668	35456828	Surfactin Shows Relatively Low Antimicrobial Activity against Bacillus subtilis and Other Bacterial Model Organisms in the Absence of Synergistic Metabolites. 	Comparative investigations on surfactin as an antimicrobial metabolite	Bacillus subtilis, biosurfactants, cell adaptation, stress response, surfactin	Surfactin is described as a powerful biosurfactant and is natively produced by Bacillus subtilis in notable quantities. Among other industrially relevant characteristics, antimicrobial properties have been attributed to surfactin-producing Bacillus isolates. To investigate this property, stress approaches were carried out with biotechnologically established strains of Corynebacterium glutamicum, Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli and Pseudomonas putida with the highest possible amounts of surfactin. Contrary to the popular opinion, the highest growth-reducing effects were detectable in B. subtilis and E. coli after surfactin treatment of 100 g/L with 35 and 33%, respectively, while P. putida showed no growth-specific response. In contrast, other antimicrobial biosurfactants, like rhamnolipids and sophorolipids, showed significantly stronger effects on bacterial growth. Since the addition of high amounts of surfactin in defined mineral salt medium reduced the cell growth of B. subtilis by about 40%, the initial stress response at the protein level was analyzed by mass spectrometry, showing induction of stress proteins under control of alternative sigma factors sigmaB and sigmaW as well as the activation of LiaRS two-component system. Overall, although surfactin is associated with antimicrobial properties, relatively low growth-reducing effects could be demonstrated after the surfactin addition, challenging the general claim of the antimicrobial properties of surfactin.
PXD032276	35456874	Red Blood Cell BCL-xL Is Required for Plasmodium falciparum Survival: Insights into Host-Directed Malaria Therapies. 	Red blood cell BCL-xL is required for Plasmodium falciparum survival: insights into host-directed malaria therapies	BCL-XL, Plasmodium falciparum, host-directed therapy, host-parasite in-teraction, malaria, red blood cells	The development of antimalarial drug resistance is an ongoing problem threatening progress towards the elimination of malaria, and antimalarial treatments are urgently needed for drug-resistant malaria infections. Host-directed therapies (HDT) represent an attractive strategy for the development of new antimalarials with untapped targets and low propensity for resistance. In addition, drug repurposing in the context of HDT can lead to a substantial decrease in the time and resources required to develop novel antimalarials. Host BCL-xL is a target in anti-cancer therapy and is essential for the development of numerous intracellular pathogens. We hypothesised that red blood cell (RBC) BCL-xL is essential for Plasmodium development and tested this hypothesis using six BCL-xL inhibitors, including one FDA-approved compound. All BCL-xL inhibitors tested impaired proliferation of Plasmodium falciparum 3D7 parasites in vitro at low micromolar or sub-micromolar concentrations. Western blot analysis of infected cell fractions and immunofluorescence microscopy assays revealed that host BCL-xL is relocated from the RBC cytoplasm to the vicinity of the parasite upon infection. Further, immunoprecipitation of BCL-xL coupled with mass spectrometry analysis identified that BCL-xL forms unique molecular complexes with human mu-calpain in uninfected RBCs, and with human SHOC2 in infected RBCs. These results provide interesting perspectives for the development of host-directed antimalarial therapies and drug repurposing efforts.
PXD032812	35456956	Methylglyoxal Impairs Sister Chromatid Separation in Lymphocytes. 	Proteomic Analysis of Methylglyoxal Modifications Reveals Susceptibility of Glycolytic Enzymes to Dicarbonyl Stress	Post-translational modifications, glycation, methylglyoxal	The accurate segregation of sister chromatids is complex, and errors that arise throughout this process can drive chromosomal instability and tumorigenesis. We recently showed that methylglyoxal (MGO), a glycolytic by-product, can cause chromosome missegregation events in lymphocytes. However, the underlying mechanisms of this were not explored. Therefore, in this study, we utilised shotgun proteomics to identify MGO-modified proteins, and label-free quantitation to measure changes in protein abundance following exposure to MGO. We identified numerous mitotic proteins that were modified by MGO, including those involved in the separation and cohesion of sister chromatids. Furthermore, the protein abundance of Securin, an inhibitor of sister chromatid separation, was increased following treatment with MGO. Cytological examination of chromosome spreads showed MGO prevented sister chromatid separation, which was associated with the formation of complex nuclear anomalies. Therefore, results from this study suggest MGO may drive chromosomal instability by preventing sister chromatid separation.
PXD032143	35456987	Radiation-Induced Bystander Effect Mediated by Exosomes Involves the Replication Stress in Recipient Cells. 	Radiation-induced bystander effect mediated by exosomes involves the replication stress in recipient cells.	bystander effect, exosomes, ionizing radiation, non-targeted effects of radiation, replication stress	Exosomes released by irradiated cells mediate the radiation-induced bystander effect, which is manifested by DNA breaks detected in recipient cells; yet, the specific mechanism responsible for the generation of chromosome lesions remains unclear. In this study, naive FaDu head and neck cancer cells were stimulated with exosomes released by irradiated (a single 2 Gy dose) or mock-irradiated cells. Maximum accumulation of gamma H2A.X foci, a marker of DNA breaks, was detected after one hour of stimulation with exosomes from irradiated donors, the level of which was comparable to the one observed in directly irradiated cells (a weaker wave of the gamma H2A.X foci accumulation was also noted after 23 h of stimulation). Exosomes from irradiated cells, but not from control ones, activated two stress-induced protein kinases: ATM and ATR. Noteworthy is that while direct irradiation activated only ATM, both ATM and ATR were activated by two factors known to induce the replication stress: hydroxyurea and camptothecin (with subsequent phosphorylation of gamma H2A.X). One hour of stimulation with exosomes from irradiated cells suppressed DNA synthesis in recipient cells and resulted in the subsequent nuclear accumulation of RNA:DNA hybrids, which is an indicator of impaired replication. Interestingly, the abovementioned effects were observed before a substantial internalization of exosomes, which may suggest a receptor-mediated mechanism. It was observed that after one hour of stimulation with exosomes from irradiated donors, phosphorylation of several nuclear proteins, including replication factors and regulators of heterochromatin remodeling as well as components of multiple intracellular signaling pathways increased. Hence, we concluded that the bystander effect mediated by exosomes released from irradiated cells involves the replication stress in recipient cells.
PXD031726	35457076	TcdB of Clostridioides difficile Mediates RAS-Dependent Necrosis in Epithelial Cells. 	TcdB of Clostridioides difficile mediates necrosis in epithelial cells and is depend on RAS	C.diff., Clostridioides difficile, Phosphoproteomics, Pyknosis, Ras, TcdA, TcdB, glucosyltransferase independent effect	A Clostridioides difficile infection (CDI) is the most common nosocomial infection worldwide. The main virulence factors of pathogenic C. difficile are TcdA and TcdB, which inhibit small Rho-GTPases. The inhibition of small Rho-GTPases leads to the so-called cytopathic effect, a reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, an impairment of the colon epithelium barrier function and inflammation. Additionally, TcdB induces a necrotic cell death termed pyknosis in vitro independently from its glucosyltransferases, which are characterized by chromatin condensation and ROS production. To understand the underlying mechanism of this pyknotic effect, we conducted a large-scale phosphoproteomic study. We included the analysis of alterations in the phosphoproteome after treatment with TcdA, which was investigated for the first time. TcdA exhibited no glucosyltransferase-independent necrotic effect and was, thus, a good control to elucidate the underlying mechanism of the glucosyltransferase-independent effect of TcdB. We found RAS to be a central upstream regulator of the glucosyltransferase-independent effect of TcdB. The inhibition of RAS led to a 68% reduction in necrosis. Further analysis revealed apolipoprotein C-III (APOC3) as a possible crucial factor of CDI-induced inflammation in vivo.
PXD029116	35457215	Identifying Novel Osteoarthritis-Associated Genes in Human Cartilage Using a Systematic Meta-Analysis and a Multi-Source Integrated Network. 	Articular cartilage proteome differentiates by zones during osteoarthritis	Osteoarthritis, zonal changes and ageing	Osteoarthritis, the most common joint disorder, is characterised by deterioration of the articular cartilage. Many studies have identified potential therapeutic targets, yet no effective treatment has been determined. The aim of this study was to identify and rank osteoarthritis-associated genes and micro-RNAs to prioritise those most integral to the disease. A systematic meta-analysis of differentially expressed mRNA and micro-RNAs in human osteoarthritic cartilage was conducted. Ingenuity pathway analysis identified cellular senescence as an enriched pathway, confirmed by a significant overlap (p < 0.01) with cellular senescence drivers (CellAge Database). A co-expression network was built using genes from the meta-analysis as seed nodes and combined with micro-RNA targets and SNP datasets to construct a multi-source information network. This accumulated and connected 1689 genes which were ranked based on node and edge aggregated scores. These bioinformatic analyses were confirmed at the protein level by mass spectrometry of the different zones of human osteoarthritic cartilage (superficial, middle, and deep) compared to normal controls. This analysis, and subsequent experimental confirmation, revealed five novel osteoarthritis-associated proteins (PPIB, ASS1, LHDB, TPI1, and ARPC4-TTLL3). Focusing future studies on these novel targets may lead to new therapies for osteoarthritis.
PXD028750	35457256	Multidimensional Gene Regulatory Landscape of Motor Organ Pulvinus in the Model Legume Medicago truncatula. 	Mecicago truncatula pulvinus proteomics	pulvinus	Nyctinastic leaf movement of Fabaceae is driven by the tiny motor organ pulvinus located at the base of the leaf or leaflet. Despite the increased understanding of the essential role of ELONGATED PETIOLULE1 (ELP1)/PETIOLE LIKE PULVINUS (PLP) orthologs in determining pulvinus identity in legumes, key regulatory components and molecular mechanisms underlying this movement remain largely unclear. Here, we used WT pulvinus and the equivalent tissue in the elp1 mutant to carry out transcriptome and proteome experiments. The omics data indicated that there are multiple cell biological processes altered at the gene expression and protein abundance level during the pulvinus development. In addition, comparative analysis of different leaf tissues provided clues to illuminate the possible common primordium between pulvinus and petiole, as well as the function of ELP1. Furthermore, the auxin pathway, cell wall composition and chloroplast distribution were altered in elp1 mutants, verifying their important roles in pulvinus development. This study provides a comprehensive insight into the motor organ of the model legume Medicago truncatula and further supplies a rich dataset to facilitate the identification of novel players involved in nyctinastic movement.
PXD031946	35457260	A Non-Hazardous Deparaffinization Protocol Enables Quantitative Proteomics of Core Needle Biopsy-Sized Formalin-Fixed and Paraffin-Embedded (FFPE) Tissue Specimens. 	A non-hazardous deparaffinization protocol enables quantita-tive proteomics of core needle biopsy-sized formalin-fixed and paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue specimens.	Clinical proteomics, FFPE, breast ductal carcinoma, cancer research, core needle biopsy, in-situ cancer, molecular pathology, quantitative proteomics, tumor tissues	Most human tumor tissues that are obtained for pathology and diagnostic purposes are formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded (FFPE). To perform quantitative proteomics of FFPE samples, paraffin has to be removed and formalin-induced crosslinks have to be reversed prior to proteolytic digestion. A central component of almost all deparaffinization protocols is xylene, a toxic and highly flammable solvent that has been reported to negatively affect protein extraction and quantitative proteome analysis. Here, we present a 'green' xylene-free protocol for accelerated sample preparation of FFPE tissues based on paraffin-removal with hot water. Combined with tissue homogenization using disposable micropestles and a modified protein aggregation capture (PAC) digestion protocol, our workflow enables streamlined and reproducible quantitative proteomic profiling of FFPE tissue. Label-free quantitation of FFPE cores from human ductal breast carcinoma in situ (DCIS) xenografts with a volume of only 0.79 mm(3) showed a high correlation between replicates (r(2) = 0.992) with a median %CV of 16.9%. Importantly, this small volume is already compatible with tissue micro array (TMA) cores and core needle biopsies, while our results and its ease-of-use indicate that further downsizing is feasible. Finally, our FFPE workflow does not require costly equipment and can be established in every standard clinical laboratory.
PXD021532	35459206	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit B promotes head and neck cancer via CEBPB translation. 	head and neck cancer cells label free proteomics	Fadu, head and neck cancer, label free	BACKGROUND: Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is the sixth most common cancer type worldwide. Deregulation of mRNA translation is a frequent feature of cancer. Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 subunit B (EIF3B) has been reported as an oncogene; however, its role in HNSCC has yet to be fully elucidated. METHODS: In this study, the clinical significance of EIF3B expression was analyzed based on TCGA datasets. Then, EIF3B expression was knocked down and its role in HNSCC was revealed. To explore the molecular mechanisms of EIF3B, we applied RNA sequencing and proteomics and acquired deregulated pathways. RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) sequencing was conducted to reveal the target mRNAs of EIF3B, and TCGA datasets were used to validate potential targets of EIF3B. RESULTS: Elevated expression of EIF3B was observed in the HNSCC cancer samples. The expression of EIF3B was significantly correlated with the patient's sex, age, HPV infection status, T stage, N stage, perineural invasion status and survival status. EIF3B serves as a marker of an unfavorable HNSCC prognosis. EIF3B-silenced Fadu and Cal27 cells exhibited reduced cell numbers, and EIF3B knockdown induced apoptosis in both cell lines. The EIF3B-silenced cells demonstrated decreased invasion and migration capabilities, and the EIF3B knockdown group mice showed significantly decreased tumor volumes. The results show that EIF3B promotes CEBPB translation and activates the MAPK pathway and revealed that IL6R and CCNG2 are targets of EIF3B-regulated CEBPB translation. CONCLUSION: In summary, the results indicated that EIF3B is a novel oncogene in HNSCC that promotes CEBPB translation and IL6R expression, and these findings provide a link between the molecular basis and pathogenesis of HNSCC.
PXD023319	35461032	iTRAQ-based proteomic analysis of Bacillus subtilis strain NCD-2 regulated by PhoPR two-component system: A comparative analysis with transcriptomics revealed the regulation for fengycin production by branched chain amino acids. 	iTRAQ-based proteomic analysis of the regulation for fengycin production by PhoPR two-component system in Bacillus subtilis strain NCD-2	Bacillus subtilis, fengycin, iTRAQ, two-component system	The PhoPR two-component system (TCS) is a signal transduction pathway to regulate the phosphate starvation response in Bacillus subtilis and regulated fengycin production in strain NCD-2 under low phosphate condition. The purpose of this study was to characterize the proteome level responses in the phoP-null mutant (MP) and the phoR-null mutant (MR), and to integrate the proteomics with the transcriptomic data obtained previously. The metabolic pathway for fengycin was predicted based on omics analysis as well as molecular genetics assay. Results showed the proteins and genes associated with biosynthesis of branched chain amino acids (BCAAs) were regulated by PhoPR TCS, and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analysis also confirmed that the production of BCAAs was down-regulated in the MP and MR mutants, when compared to wild-type strain NCD-2. Protein network analysis showed that the BCAA metabolism was linked to the biosynthesis of lipopeptides. The MP and MR strains decreased the fengycin production when cultured in modified Landy medium supplied with 0.42 mM phosphate, however, the fengycin production could be restored when the glutamic acid was replaced with BCAAs that were added to modified Landy medium. The lpdV gene, which is responsible for the BCAA degradation process, was deleted in strain NCD-2. Compared with the wild-type strain, the lpdV mutant produced significantly less fengycin in the medium supplied with BCAAs. Considered together, the results of this study indicate that the PhoPR TCS regulates fengycin production by affecting BCAA biosynthesis.
PXD030872	35461247	Unraveling the expression of differentially expressed proteins and enzymatic activity in response to Phytophthora nicotianae across different flue-cured tobacco cultivars. 	Unraveling the expression of differentially expressed proteins and enzymatic activity in response to Phytophthora nicotianae across different flue-cured tobacco cultivars	Phytophthora nicotianae, disease resistance, iTRAQ, tobacco black shank	BACKGROUND: Black shank disease caused by Phytophthora nicotianae is a serious threat to flue-cured tobacco production. Whole-plant resistance is characterized by the expression of a number of pathogenesis-related proteins, genes, and the activity of different defense-related enzymes. In this study, we investigated the activity of defense-related enzymes and expression of differentially expressed proteins through the iTRAQ technique across two flue-cured tobacco cultivars, i.e., K326 and Hongda, in response to the black shank pathogen. RESULTS: Results showed that the highest disease incidence was recorded in flue-cured tobacco cultivar Hongda compared with K326, which shows that Hongda is more susceptible to P. nicotianae than K326. A total of 4274 differentially expressed proteins were detected at 0 h and after 24 h, 72 h of post-inoculation with P. nicotianae. We found that 17 proteins induced after inoculation with P. nicotianae, including pathogenesis (5), photosynthesis (3), oxidative phosphorylation (6), tricarboxylic acid cycle (1), heat shock (1), and 14-3-3 (1) and were involved in the resistance of flue-cured tobacco against black shank disease. The expression of 5 pathogenesis-related proteins and the activities of defense-related enzymes (PPO, POD, SOD, and MDA) were significantly higher in the leaves of K326 than Hongda after inoculation with P. nicotianae. CONCLUSION: These results provide new molecular insights into flue-cured tobacco responses to P. nicotianae. It is concluded that differences in protein expressions and defense-related enzymes play an important role in developing resistance in flue-cured tobacco cultivars against black shank disease.
PXD029555	35462459	Algicidal interaction between Paenibacillus polymyxa MEZ6 and microalgae. 	Algicidal interaction between the soil bacterial isolate Paenibacillus polymyxa MEZ6	Algicidal bacteria, bacteria-algae, interaction Paenibacillus  Chlamydomonas	AIMS: Algicidal bacteria can be used for control of harmful algal bloom and extraction of algal bioproducts based on their algae-lysing activities. This work investigated the algae-lysing activity of a newly isolated algicidal bacterium, Paenibacillus polymyxa strain MEZ6 and its possible mechanisms. METHODS AND RESULTS: Algicidal bacteria were isolated from soil samples collected at the university campus. Co-inoculation tests identified that one isolate, MEZ6, can rapidly kill eukaryotic algae including Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Tribonema minus, Haematococcus pluvialis, and Chlorella ellipsoidea. The strain was determined as Paenibacillus polymyxa MEZ6 based on 16S rRNA gene sequence and genome comparisons. The algicidal activity was detected in both living cells and cell-free supernatant of spent culture medium, suggesting cell-cell contact is not required for algicidal activity. Strain MEZ6 was less active towards cyanobacterial strains compared to algae. Genomic sequence and comparative proteomic analyses were performed to explore the possible algicidal mechanisms of the strain. Differentially expressed protein analysis identified a number of proteins related to polysaccharides degradation and antimicrobial secondary metabolite biosynthesis that may be involved in the algicidal activity of MEZ6. CONCLUSION: Paenibacillus polymyxa MEZ6 is a newly discovered gram-positive algicidal bacterial strain with high lytic activity towards several algal species. SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Our study extends the understanding of the versatile characters of Paenibacillus polymyxa and sheds new insights into its application in algae biotechnology.
PXD031696	35462890	Huangqin Tang Interference With Colitis Associated Colorectal Cancer Through Regulation of Epithelial Mesenchymal Transition and Cell Cycle. 	Mechanisms research on Huangqin Tang interference with colitis associated colorectal cancer	CAC, Cell cycle, EMT, HQT	Background: Although the exact molecular mechanisms of colitis-associated colorectal cancer are not fully understood, the chronic inflammation was positively correlated with tumorigenesis. The traditional Chinese medicine botanical formulation Huangqin Tang has significant anti-inflammatory effects. We investigated whether HQT can ameliorate the progression of inflammation to cancer through its anti-inflammatory effects by using relevant predictions and experiments. Methods: We used the azoxymethane/dextran sodium sulfate method to induce the mice colitis-associated colorectal cancer model. After preventive administration of Huangqin Tang to the mice model, colonic tissues were taken for quantitative proteomic analysis of tandem mass tags, and the proteomic results were then experimentally validated using the molecular biology approach. Results: Proteomic screening revealed that the effect of the mechanism of Huangqin-Tang on the colitis-associated colorectal cancer mice model may be related to infinite replication which demonstrated abnormal G1/S checkpoint and epithelial mesenchymal transition acceleration. The levels of inflammatory factors such as interleukin-1alpha, interleukin-1beta, interleukin-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha were significantly reduced in colitis-associated colorectal cancer mice treated with Huangqin Tang; the aberrant expression of G1/S checkpoint-associated sites of cell cycle protein-dependent kinase 4, D1-type cyclins, and dysregulation of related sites of the WNT pathway which are most related to the acceleration of the epithelial mesenchymal transition process including WNT3A, beta-catenin, E-cadherin, and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta has been improved. Conclusion: Reducing inflammation and thus inhibiting the progression of colitis-associated colorectal cancer by using Huangqin-Tang is effective, and the mechanism of action may be related to the inhibition of uncontrolled proliferation during tumorigenesis. In the follow-up, we will conduct a more in-depth study on the relevant mechanism of action.
PXD028749	35463422	Antioxidant Regulation and DNA Methylation Dynamics During Mikania micrantha Seed Germination Under Cold Stress. 	The proteome of Mikania micrantha seeds	Mikania micrantha, seed	As a primary goal, adaptation to cold climate could expand an invasion range of exotic plants. Here, we aimed to explore the regulation strategy of M. micrantha seed development under cold stress through molecular physiology and multi-omics analysis. Significant increase of hydrogen peroxide, malondialdehyde, and electrolyte leakage observed under cold stress revealed that oxidative damage within M. micrantha seed cells was induced in the initial germination phase. Proteomic data underscored an activation of antioxidant activity to maintain redox homeostasis, with a cluster of antioxidant proteins identified. Genomic-wide transcriptome, in combination with time-series whole-genome bisulfite sequencing mining, elucidated that seven candidate genes, which were the target of DNA demethylation-dependent ROS scavenging, were possibly associated with an M. micrantha germ break. Progressive gain of CHH context DNA methylation identified in an early germination phrase suggested a role of a DNA methylation pathway, while an active DNA demethylation pathway was also initiated during late seed development, which was in line with the expression trend of methylation and demethylation-related genes verified through qRT-PCR. These data pointed out that cold-dependent DNA demethylation and an antioxidant regulatory were involved together in restoring seed germination. The expression level of total 441 genes presented an opposite trend to the methylation divergence, while the expression of total 395 genes was proved to be negatively associated with their methylation levels. These data provided new insights into molecular reprograming events during M. micrantha seed development.
PXD025460	35463830	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Membrane Vesicles from Clinical C. acnes Isolates with Differential Antibiotic Resistance. 	proteomic analysis of membrane vesicles from clinical Cutibacterium acnes isolates	C. acnes, membrane vesicles	Purpose: Cutibacterium acnes (C. acnes) is closely associated with the pathogenesis of acne, and antibiotics targeting C. acnes have been widely used for decades. However, antibiotic resistance has been increasing rapidly. Membrane vesicles (MVs) have been found to play important roles in antibiotic resistance in some bacteria. We aimed to explore the mechanism of antibiotic resistance and the virulence components within C. acnes-derived MVs. Materials and Methods: We isolated clinical C. acnes strains from the lesions of acne patients who were sensitive or resistant to the antibiotics erythromycin and clindamycin. We analyzed the proteome of MVs from four sensitive C. acnes isolates and three resistant isolates by LC-MS/MS. Results: We identified 543 proteins within the MVs of clinical C. acnes strains. Several lipases, NlpC/P60, CAMP factor, and Hta domain protein were detected as virulence factors in the C. acnes-derived MVs. The levels of two lipases and FtsZ were significantly higher in resistant C. acnes-derived MVs compared with sensitive strains (p < 0.05). Conclusion: According to the implications of this study, improper antibiotic use might not only increase antibiotic resistance in C. acnes but could also further alter the cutaneous lipid composition and aggravate host inflammation, thus resulting in worse clinical manifestations in acne patients. This study re-emphasizes that the improper use of antibiotics should be treated more seriously in clinical practice. Furthermore, to combat multidrug resistance in C. acnes, this study suggests that FtsZ inhibitors could be useful.
PXD031089	35464017	Genome-Resolved Metaproteomic Analysis of Microbiota and Metabolic Pathways Involved in Taste Formation During Chinese Traditional Fish Sauce (Yu-lu) Fermentation. 	metaproteomic analysis of microbiota and metabolic pathways involved in taste formation during Chinese traditional fish sauce	Fermentation, Fish sauce, Metaproteomics	Complex microbial metabolism is key to taste formation in high-quality fish sauce during fermentation. To guide quality supervision and targeted regulation, we analyzed the function of microbial flora during fermentation based on a previously developed metagenomic database. The abundance of most identified genes involved in metabolic functions showed an upward trend in abundance during fermentation. In total, 571 proteins extracted from fish sauce at different fermentation stages were identified. These proteins were mainly derived from Halanaerobium, Psychrobacter, Photobacterium, and Tetragenococcus. Functional annotation revealed 15 pathways related to amino acid metabolism, including alanine, aspartate, glutamate, and histidine metabolism; lysine degradation; and arginine biosynthesis. This study demonstrated the approaches to identify microbiota functions and metabolic pathways, thereby providing a theoretical basis for taste formation mechanisms during traditional fish sauce fermentation.
PXD030867	35464232	The Cytochrome P450 OxyA from the Kistamicin Biosynthesis Cyclization Cascade is Highly Sensitive to Oxidative Damage. 	Cytochrome P450s protect against oxidative damage via a preferred orientation of the heme cofactor	Cytochrome P450s, glycopeptide antibiotic (GPA) biosynthesis	Cytochrome P450 enzymes (P450s) are a superfamily of monooxygenases that utilize a cysteine thiolate-ligated heme moiety to perform a wide range of demanding oxidative transformations. Given the oxidative power of the active intermediate formed within P450s during their active cycle, it is remarkable that these enzymes can avoid auto-oxidation and retain the axial cysteine ligand in the deprotonated-and thus highly acidic-thiolate form. While little is known about the process of heme incorporation during P450 folding, there is an overwhelming preference for one heme orientation within the P450 active site. Indeed, very few structures to date contain an alternate heme orientation, of which two are OxyA homologs from glycopeptide antibiotic (GPA) biosynthesis. Given the apparent preference for the unusual heme orientation shown by OxyA enzymes, we investigated the OxyA homolog from kistamicin biosynthesis (OxyAkis), which is an atypical GPA. We determined that OxyAkis is highly sensitive to oxidative damage by peroxide, with both UV and EPR measurements showing rapid bleaching of the heme signal. We determined the structure of OxyAkis and found a mixed population of heme orientations present in this enzyme. Our analysis further revealed the possible modification of the heme moiety, which was only present in samples where the alternate heme orientation was present in the protein. These results suggest that the typical heme orientation in cytochrome P450s can help prevent potential damage to the heme-and hence deactivation of the enzyme-during P450 catalysis. It also suggests that some P450 enzymes involved in GPA biosynthesis may be especially prone to oxidative damage due to the heme orientation found in their active sites.
PXD030650	35464959	Proteomics Reveal the Effect of Exogenous Electrons on Electroactive Escherichia coli. 	LC-MS/MS data of Escherichia coli	Escherichia coli, Proteomic analysis	Microbial cells utilizing electricity to produce high-value fuels and chemicals are the foundation of the biocathodic bioelectrochemical system. However, molecular mechanisms of electron transfer and utilization have not been elucidated. In this work, Escherichia coli engineered by introducing the Mtr pathway from Shewanella oneidensis exhibited stronger electrochemical activity than control and could utilize exogenous electrons to stimulate metabolite profiles and boost succinate production in the bioelectrochemical system. Proteomic analysis and real-time PCR were performed to investigate the effect of exogenous electrons on electroactive E. coli. Bioinformatics analysis suggested that the proteins of molecular function associated with oxidoreductase activity, 4 iron, 4 sulfur([4Fe-4S]) cluster binding, iron-sulfur cluster binding, and metal cluster binding were positively affected by exogenous electrons. Moreover, mapping to the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway database showed that the up-regulated proteins were mainly involved in metabolic pathways of tricarboxylic acid cycle, pyruvate metabolism, and nitrogen metabolism pathway, providing support for the metabolic balance of microbial cells shifting toward reduced end-products due to electron utilization. Using a biochemical method, the ompF-overexpressed strain was employed to investigate the function of the channel protein. These findings provided a theoretical basis for further improving electron transfer and utilization efficiency, and contributed to the potential applications of the bioelectrochemical system.
PXD019088	35464963	Plasma Exosomal Proteomic Pattern of Epstein-Barr Virus-Associated Hemophagocytic Lymphohistiocytosis. 	Plasma exosomal proteomic pattern in Hemophagocyticlymphohistiocytosis of a twin boy	Hemophagocyticlymphohistiocytosisï¼› twinsï¼›exosomesï¼›proteomic analysis	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (EBV-HLH) is a life-threatening syndrome, which is caused by EBV infection that is usually refractory to treatment and shows relapse. The development of new biomarkers for the early diagnosis and clinical treatment of EBV-HLH is urgently needed. Exosomes have been shown to mediate various biological processes and are ideal non-invasive biomarkers. Here, we present the differential plasma exosomal proteome of a patient with EBV-HLH before vs. during treatment and with that of his healthy twin brother. A tandem mass tag-labeled LC-MS technique was employed for proteomic detection. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses indicated that differential proteomic profiles were related to virus infection, coagulopathy, nervous system dysfunction, imbalance of immune response, and abnormal liver function. The candidate biomarkers were first identified in the patient's plasma exosomes at different treatment and follow-up time points. Then, 14 additional EBV-HLH exosome samples were used to verify six differentially expressed proteins. The upregulation of C-reactive protein, moesin, galectin three-binding protein, and heat shock cognate 71 kDa protein and the downregulation of plasminogen and fibronectin 1 could serve as potential biomarkers of EBV-HLH. This plasma exosomal proteomic analysis provides new insights into the diagnostic and therapeutic biomarkers of EBV-HLH.
PXD030103	35465354	Proteomic Profiling and Functional Analysis of B Cell-Derived Exosomes upon Pneumocystis Infection. 	Proteomic Profiling and Functional Analysis of B Cell-Derived Exosomes upon Pneumocystis Infection	B lymphocytes, Pneumocystis pneumonia, exosomes	Pneumocystis is a life-threatening fungal pathogen that frequently causes fatal pneumonia (PCP) in immunocompromised individuals. Recently, B cells have been reported to play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of PCP through producing antibodies and activating CD4(+) T cell response. Exosomes are nanoscale small extracellular vesicles abundant with protein cargo and can mediate immune response during infectious disease. In this study, using tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics coupled with bioinformatic analysis, we attempted to characterize exosomes derived from B lymphocytes in response to PCP. Several proteins were verified by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) analysis. Also, the effects of B cell exosomes on CD4(+) T cell response and phagocytic function of macrophages were clarified. Briefly, 1701 proteins were identified from B cell exosomes, and the majority of them were reported in Vesiclepedia. A total of 51 differentially expressed proteins of B cell exosomes were found in response to PCP. They were mainly associated with immune response and transcription regulation. PRM analysis confirmed the significantly changed levels of histone H1.3, vimentin, and tyrosine-protein phosphatase nonreceptor type 6 (PTPN6). Moreover, a functional study revealed the proinflammatory profile of B cell exosomes on CD4(+) T cell response in PCP. Taken together, our results suggest the involvement of exosomes derived from B cells in cell-to-cell communication, providing new information on the function of B cells in response to PCP.
PXD031912	35466238	In-Depth Quantitative Proteomics Characterization of In Vitro Selected Miltefosine Resistance in Leishmania infantum. 	In-depth proteomics analysis of a Leishmania infantum strain selected in vitro for miltefosine resistance	ATP synthase., FASP, Leishmania infantum, TCA cycle, cytochrome c oxidase, fatty acid beta-oxidation, miltefosine resistance, oxidative phosphorylation, quantitative proteomics	Visceral leishmaniasis (VL) is a neglected disease caused by Leishmania parasites. Although significant morbidity and mortality in tropical and subtropical regions of the world are associated with VL, the low investment for developing new treatment measures is chronic. Moreover, resistance and treatment failure are increasing for the main medications, but the emergence of resistance phenotypes is poorly understood at the protein level. Here, we analyzed the development of resistance to miltefosine upon experimental selection in a L. infantum strain. Time to miltefosine resistance emergence was ~six months and label-free quantitative mass-spectrometry-based proteomics analyses revealed that this process involves a remodeling of components of the membrane and mitochondrion, with significant increase in oxidative phosphorylation complexes, particularly on complex IV and ATP synthase, accompanied by increased energy metabolism mainly dependent on beta-oxidation of fatty acids. Proteins canonically involved in ROS detoxification did not contribute to the resistant process whereas sterol biosynthesis enzymes could have a role in this development. Furthermore, changes in the abundance of proteins known to be involved in miltefosine resistance such as ABC transporters and phospholipid transport ATPase were detected. Together, our data show a more complete picture of the elements that make up the miltefosine resistance phenotype in L. infantum.
PXD028407	35466239	Quantitative Proteogenomic Characterization of Inflamed Murine Colon Tissue Using an Integrated Discovery, Verification, and Validation Proteogenomic Workflow. 	Quantitative proteogenomic characterization of inflamed murine colon tissue using an integrated discovery, verification, and validation proteogenomic workflow	DDA, Orbitrap, PRM, Proximal Colon, TMT	Chronic inflammation of the colon causes genomic and/or transcriptomic events, which can lead to expression of non-canonical protein sequences contributing to oncogenesis. To better understand these mechanisms, Rag2(-/-)Il10(-/-) mice were infected with Helicobacter hepaticus to induce chronic inflammation of the cecum and the colon. Transcriptomic data from harvested proximal colon samples were used to generate a customized FASTA database containing non-canonical protein sequences. Using a proteogenomic approach, mass spectrometry data for proximal colon proteins were searched against this custom FASTA database using the Galaxy for Proteomics (Galaxy-P) platform. In addition to the increased abundance in inflammatory response proteins, we also discovered several non-canonical peptide sequences derived from unique proteoforms. We confirmed the veracity of these novel sequences using an automated bioinformatics verification workflow with targeted MS-based assays for peptide validation. Our bioinformatics discovery workflow identified 235 putative non-canonical peptide sequences, of which 58 were verified with high confidence and 39 were validated in targeted proteomics assays. This study provides insights into challenges faced when identifying non-canonical peptides using a proteogenomics approach and demonstrates an integrated workflow addressing these challenges. Our bioinformatic discovery and verification workflow is publicly available and accessible via the Galaxy platform and should be valuable in non-canonical peptide identification using proteogenomics.
PXD033808	35466366	Unveiling a novel serpinB2-tripeptidyl peptidase II signaling axis during senescence. 	SerpinB2/TPPII regulates senescence	TPP, activity-based probe, benzylphosphonofluoridate, senescence, serine hydrolase	Tripeptidyl peptidase II (TPPII or TPP2) degrades N-terminal tripeptides from proteins and peptides. Studies in both humans and mice have shown that TPPII deficiency is linked to cellular immune-senescence, lifespan regulation and the aging process. However, the mechanism of how TPPII participates in these processes is less clear. In this study, we established a chemical probe-based assay and found that although the mRNA and protein levels of TPPII were not altered during senescence, its enzymatic activity was reduced in senescent human fibroblasts. We also showed that elevation of the levels of the serine protease inhibitor serpinB2 reduced TPPII activity in senescent cells. Moreover, suppression of TPPII led to elevation in the amount of lysosomal contents as in well as TPPI (TPP1) and beta-galactosidase activities, suggesting that lysosome biogenesis is induced to compensate for the reduction of TPPII activity in senescent cells. Together, this study discloses a critical role of the serpinB2-TPPII signaling pathway in proteostasis during senescence. Since serpinB2 levels can be increased by a variety of cellular stresses, reduction of TPPII activity through activation of serpinB2 might represent a common pathway for cells to respond to different stress conditions. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD027053	35466371	The tRNA discriminator base defines the mutual orthogonality of two distinct pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase/tRNAPyl pairs in the same organism. 	Characterization of two mutually orthogonal pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase/tRNAPyl pairs residing in the same organism	archaea, genetic code expansion, mutually orthogonal, pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase, tRNAPyl	Site-specific incorporation of distinct non-canonical amino acids into proteins via genetic code expansion requires mutually orthogonal aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase/tRNA pairs. Pyrrolysyl-tRNA synthetase (PylRS)/tRNAPyl pairs are ideal for genetic code expansion and have been extensively engineered for developing mutually orthogonal pairs. Here, we identify two novel wild-type PylRS/tRNAPyl pairs simultaneously present in the deep-rooted extremely halophilic euryarchaeal methanogen Candidatus Methanohalarchaeum thermophilum HMET1, and show that both pairs are functional in the model halophilic archaeon Haloferax volcanii. These pairs consist of two different PylRS enzymes and two distinct tRNAs with dissimilar discriminator bases. Surprisingly, these two PylRS/tRNAPyl pairs display mutual orthogonality enabled by two unique features, the A73 discriminator base of tRNAPyl2 and a shorter motif 2 loop in PylRS2. In vivo translation experiments show that tRNAPyl2 charging by PylRS2 is defined by the enzyme's shortened motif 2 loop. Finally, we demonstrate that the two HMET1 PylRS/tRNAPyl pairs can simultaneously decode UAG and UAA codons for incorporation of two distinct noncanonical amino acids into protein. This example of a single base change in a tRNA leading to additional coding capacity suggests that the growth of the genetic code is not yet limited by the number of identity elements fitting into the tRNA structure.
PXD028744	35466425	Cellular responses to halofuginone reveal a vulnerability of the GCN2 branch of the integrated stress response. 	Halofuginone, a tRNA-synthetase inhibitor, decreases bulk protein synthesis independently of the integrated stress response	GCN2, Integrated stress response, stress responses, tRNA synthetase, translation	Halofuginone (HF) is a phase 2 clinical compound that inhibits the glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase (EPRS) thereby inducing the integrated stress response (ISR). Here, we report that halofuginone indeed triggers the predicted canonical ISR adaptations, consisting of attenuation of protein synthesis and gene expression reprogramming. However, the former is surprisingly atypical and occurs to a similar magnitude in wild-type cells, cells lacking GCN2 and those incapable of phosphorylating eIF2alpha. Proline supplementation rescues the observed HF-induced changes indicating that they result from inhibition of EPRS. The failure of the GCN2-to-eIF2alpha pathway to elicit a measurable protective attenuation of translation initiation allows translation elongation defects to prevail upon HF treatment. Exploiting this vulnerability of the ISR, we show that cancer cells with increased proline dependency are more sensitive to halofuginone. This work reveals that the consequences of EPRS inhibition are more complex than anticipated and provides novel insights into ISR signaling, as well as a molecular framework to guide the targeted development of halofuginone as a therapeutic.
PXD031244	35466426	CROP: a retromer-PROPPIN complex mediating membrane fission in the endo-lysosomal system. 	CROP: A Retromer- PROPPIN complex mediating  membrane fission in the endo-lysosomal system	endo-lysosomal system	Endo-lysosomal compartments exchange proteins by fusing, fissioning, and through endosomal transport carriers. Thereby, they sort many plasma membrane receptors and transporters and control cellular signaling and metabolism. How the membrane fission events are catalyzed is poorly understood. Here, we identify the novel CROP complex as a factor acting at this step. CROP joins members of two protein families: the peripheral subunits of retromer, a coat forming endosomal transport carriers, and membrane inserting PROPPINs. Integration into CROP potentiates the membrane fission activity of the PROPPIN Atg18 on synthetic liposomes and confers strong preference for binding PI(3,5)P2 , a phosphoinositide required for membrane fission activity. Disrupting CROP blocks fragmentation of lysosome-like yeast vacuoles in vivo. CROP-deficient mammalian endosomes accumulate micrometer-long tubules and fail to export cargo, suggesting that carriers attempt to form but cannot separate from these organelles. PROPPINs compete for retromer binding with the SNX-BAR proteins, which recruit retromer to the membrane during the formation of endosomal carriers. Transition from retromer-SNX-BAR complexes to retromer-PROPPIN complexes might hence switch retromer activities from cargo capture to membrane fission.
PXD031019	35467356	Benchmarking Cleavable Biotin Tags for Peptide-Centric Chemoproteomics. 	Benchmarking cleavable biotin tags for site-centric chemoproteomics	chemical labeling, cleavable linker	Click chemistry-specifically the copper-catalyzed azide-alkyne cycloaddition-has enabled the development of a wide range of chemical probes to analyze subsets of the functional proteome. The "clickable" proteome can be selectively enriched by using diverse cleavable biotin tags, but the direct identification of probe/tag-modified peptides (or peptide-centric analysis) remains challenging. Here, we evaluated the performance of five commercially available cleavable biotin tags in three most common chemoproteomic workflows, resulting in a comparative analysis of 15 methods. An acid-cleavable biotin tag with a dialkoxydiphenylsilane moiety, in combination with the protein "click", peptide "capture" workflow, outperforms all other methods in terms of enrichment efficiency, identification yield, and reproducibility, although its performance may be slightly compromised by the formation of an unwanted formate product revealed by blind search. Despite being inferior, photocleavable, and reduction-cleavable, biotin tags can also find their applicable sceneries, especially when dealing with acid-sensitive probes or probe-derived modifications. Furthermore, the systematic comparison of LC-MS/MS characteristics of tag-modified peptides provides valuable information for the future development of cleavable biotin reagents. Taken together, our data provides a much-needed practical guidance for researchers interested in developing and/or applying an ideal cleavable biotin tag to peptide-centric chemoproteomics.
PXD032832	35468899	Glycation modulates glutamatergic signaling and exacerbates Parkinson's disease-like phenotypes. 	Glycation modulates glutamatergic signaling and exacerbates ParkinsonÃƒÂ¢Ã¢â€šÂ¬Ã¢â€žÂ¢s disease-like phenotypes	Brain, Glycation, Parkinsons disease	Alpha-synuclein (aSyn) is a central player in the pathogenesis of synucleinopathies due to its accumulation in typical protein aggregates in the brain. However, it is still unclear how it contributes to neurodegeneration. Type-2 diabetes mellitus is a risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD). Interestingly, a common molecular alteration among these disorders is the age-associated increase in protein glycation. We hypothesized that glycation-induced neuronal dysfunction is a contributing factor in synucleinopathies. Here, we dissected the impact of methylglyoxal (MGO, a glycating agent) in mice overexpressing aSyn in the brain. We found that MGO-glycation potentiates motor, cognitive, olfactory, and colonic dysfunction in aSyn transgenic (Thy1-aSyn) mice that received a single dose of MGO via intracerebroventricular injection. aSyn accumulates in the midbrain, striatum, and prefrontal cortex, and protein glycation is increased in the cerebellum and midbrain. SWATH mass spectrometry analysis, used to quantify changes in the brain proteome, revealed that MGO mainly increase glutamatergic-associated proteins in the midbrain (NMDA, AMPA, glutaminase, VGLUT and EAAT1), but not in the prefrontal cortex, where it mainly affects the electron transport chain. The glycated proteins in the midbrain of MGO-injected Thy1-aSyn mice strongly correlate with PD and dopaminergic pathways. Overall, we demonstrated that MGO-induced glycation accelerates PD-like sensorimotor and cognitive alterations and suggest that the increase of glutamatergic signaling may underly these events. Our study sheds new light into the enhanced vulnerability of the midbrain in PD-related synaptic dysfunction and suggests that glycation suppressors and anti-glutamatergic drugs may hold promise as disease-modifying therapies for synucleinopathies.
PXD030810	35468964	HOXB13 suppresses de novo lipogenesis through HDAC3-mediated epigenetic reprogramming in prostate cancer. 	HOXB13 WT and G84E mass spectrometry	HOXB13, Prostate cancer, Tandem affinity purification	HOXB13, a homeodomain transcription factor, critically regulates androgen receptor (AR) activities and androgen-dependent prostate cancer (PCa) growth. However, its functions in AR-independent contexts remain elusive. Here we report HOXB13 interaction with histone deacetylase HDAC3, which is disrupted by the HOXB13 G84E mutation that has been associated with early-onset PCa. Independently of AR, HOXB13 recruits HDAC3 to lipogenic enhancers to catalyze histone deacetylation and suppress lipogenic regulators such as fatty acid synthase. Analysis of human tissues reveals that the HOXB13 gene is hypermethylated and downregulated in approximately 30% of metastatic castration-resistant PCa. HOXB13 loss or G84E mutation leads to lipid accumulation in PCa cells, thereby promoting cell motility and xenograft tumor metastasis, which is mitigated by pharmaceutical inhibition of fatty acid synthase. In summary, we present evidence that HOXB13 recruits HDAC3 to suppress de novo lipogenesis and inhibit tumor metastasis and that lipogenic pathway inhibitors may be useful to treat HOXB13-low PCa.
PXD021232	35469018	Cancer-cell-secreted miR-122 suppresses O-GlcNAcylation to promote skeletal muscle proteolysis. 	Cancer-cell-secreted miR-122 suppresses O-GlcNAcylation to promote muscle proteolysis	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), mouse cancer glycosylation	A decline in skeletal muscle mass and low muscular strength are prognostic factors in advanced human cancers. Here we found that breast cancer suppressed O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) protein modification in muscle through extracellular-vesicle-encapsulated miR-122, which targets O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT). Mechanistically, O-GlcNAcylation of ryanodine receptor 1 (RYR1) competed with NEK10-mediated phosphorylation and increased K48-linked ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation; the miR-122-mediated decrease in OGT resulted in increased RYR1 abundance. We further found that muscular protein O-GlcNAcylation was regulated by hypoxia and lactate through HIF1A-dependent OGT promoter activation and was elevated after exercise. Suppressed O-GlcNAcylation in the setting of cancer, through increasing RYR1, led to higher cytosolic Ca(2+) and calpain protease activation, which triggered cleavage of desmin filaments and myofibrillar destruction. This was associated with reduced skeletal muscle mass and contractility in tumour-bearing mice. Our findings link O-GlcNAcylation to muscular protein homoeostasis and contractility and reveal a mechanism of cancer-associated muscle dysregulation.
PXD030026	35469254	Multifunctional polyphenol-based silk hydrogel alleviates oxidative stress and enhances endogenous regeneration of osteochondral defects. 	Multifunctional polyphenol-based silk hydrogel alleviates oxidative stress and enhances endogenous regeneration of osteochondral defects	BMSCs, Hydrogel, Microenvironment, Osteochondral regeneration, Oxidative stress, Tannic acid	In osteochondral defects, oxidative stress caused by elevated levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) can disrupt the normal endogenous repair process. In this study, a multifunctional hydrogel composed of silk fibroin (SF) and tannic acid (TA), the FDA-approved ingredients, was developed to alleviate oxidative stress and enhance osteochondral regeneration. In this proposed hydrogel, SF first interacts with TA to form a hydrogen-bonded supramolecular structure, which is subsequently enzymatically crosslinked to form a stable hydrogel. Furthermore, TA had multiple phenolic hydroxyl groups that formed interactions with the therapeutic molecule E7 peptide for controlled drug delivery. In vitro investigations showed that SF-TA and SF-TA-E7 hydrogels exhibited a multitude of biological effects including scavenging of ROS, maintaining cell viability, and promoting the proliferation of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) against oxidative stress. The proteomic analysis indicated that SF-TA and SF-TA-E7 hydrogels suppressed oxidative stress, which in turn improved cell proliferation in multiple proliferation and apoptosis-related pathways. In rabbit osteochondral defect model, SF-TA and SF-TA-E7 hydrogels promoted enhanced regeneration of both cartilage and subchondral bone as compared to hydrogel without TA incorporation. These findings indicated that the multifunctional SF-TA hydrogel provided a microenvironment suitable for the endogenous regeneration of osteochondral defects.
PXD030937	35469920	Identification of a reciprocal negative feedback loop between tau-modifying proteins MARK2 kinase and CBP acetyltransferase. 	The Role of Acetylated CBP on MARK2 activity	MARK2, phosphorylation	The posttranslational regulation of the neuronal proteome is critical for brain homeostasis but becomes dysregulated in the aged or diseased brain, in which abnormal posttranslational modifications (PTMs) are frequently observed. While the full extent of modified substrates that comprise the "PTM-ome" are slowly emerging, how the upstream enzymes catalyzing these processes are regulated themselves is not well understood, particularly in the context of neurodegeneration. Here, we describe the reciprocal regulation of a kinase, the microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 2 (MARK2), and an acetyltransferase, CREB-binding protein (CBP), two enzymes known to extensively modify tau proteins in the progression of Alzheimer's disease. We found that MARK2 negatively regulates CBP and, conversely, CBP directly acetylates and inhibits MARK2 kinase activity. These findings highlight a reciprocal negative feedback loop between a kinase and an acetyltransferase, which has implications for how PTM interplay is coordinated on substrates including tau. Our study suggests that PTM profiles occur through the posttranslational control of the master PTM remodeling enzymes themselves.
PXD042885	35471551	PRSS37 deficiency leads to impaired energy metabolism in testis and sperm revealed by DIA-based quantitative proteomic analysis. 	DIA proteomics analysis of wt and Prss55-null sperm	Male fertility	Our previous studies have reported that a putative trypsin-like serine protease, PRSS37, is exclusively expressed in testicular germ cells during late spermatogenesis and essential for sperm migration from the uterus into the oviduct and sperm-egg recognition via mediating the interaction between PDILT and ADAM3. In the present study, the global proteome profiles of wild-type (wt) and Prss37(-/-) mice in testis and sperm were compared employing data independent acquisition (DIA) technology. Overall, 2506 and 459 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in Prss37-null testis and sperm, respectively, when compared to control groups. Bioinformatic analyses revealed that most of DEPs were related to energy metabolism. Of note, the DEPs associated with pathways for the catabolism such as glucose via glycolysis, fatty acids via beta-oxidation, and amino acids via oxidative deamination were significantly down-regulated. Meanwhile, the DEPs involved in the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA cycle) and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) were remarkably decreased. The DIA data were further confirmed by a markedly reduction of intermediate metabolites (citrate and fumarate) in TCA cycle and terminal metabolite (ATP) in OXPHOS system after disruption of PRSS37. These outcomes not only provide a more comprehensive understanding of the male fertility of energy metabolism modulated by PRSS37 but also furnish a dynamic proteomic resource for further reproductive biology studies.
PXD031893	35471617	Investigation of chetomin as a lead compound and its biosynthetic pathway. 	Proteome analysis of Chaetomium cochliodes SD-280	glutathione,chetomin biosynthesis	Chaetomium fungi produce a diversity of bioactive compounds. Chaetomium cochliodes SD-280 possesses 91 secondary metabolite gene clusters and exhibits strong antibacterial activity. One of the active compounds responsible for that activity, chetomin, has a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) for anti-methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) of 0.05 mug/mL (vancomycin: 0.625 mug/mL). This study demonstrated that the addition of glutathione (GSH) can enhance chetomin yield dramatically, increasing its production 15.43-fold. Following genome sequencing, cluster prediction, and transcriptome and proteome analyses of the fungus were carried out. Furthermore, a relatively complete chetomin biosynthetic gene cluster was proposed, and the coding sequences were acquired. In the cluster of GSH-treated cells, proteome analysis revealed two up-regulated proteins that are critical enzymes for chetomin biosynthesis. One of these enzymes, a nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS), was heterologously expressed in Aspergillus nidulans, and one of its metabolites was determined to be an intermediate in the chetomin biosynthetic pathway. We present here, to our knowledge, the first experimental evidence that chetomin exhibits strong bioactivity against MRSA. Our work also provides extensive insights into the biosynthetic pathway of chetomin, in particular identifying two key enzymes (glutathione S-transferase (CheG) and NRPS (CheP)) that substantially up-regulate chetomin. These mechanistic insights into chetomin biosynthesis will provide the foundation for further investigation into the anti-pathogenic properties and applications of chetomin. KEY POINTS: * Chetomin exhibits strong anti-MRSA activity with MIC of 0.05 mug/mL. * Addition of glutathione improved the yield of chetomin by 15.43-fold. * CheG and CheP involved in the chetomin biosynthesis were revealed for the first time.
PXD030801	35472218	Atypical U3 snoRNA Suppresses the Process of Pterygium Through Modulating 18S Ribosomal RNA Synthesis. 	Atypical U3 snoRNA Suppresses the Process of Pterygia through Modulating 18S Ribosomal RNA Synthesis	18S rRNA, 47S rRNA, 5 ETS, Pterygium, Ribosome biosynthesis, U3 snoRNA	Background: The progression and recurrence of pterygium mainly occur due to the abnormal proliferation and migration of stromal pterygium fibroblasts. This research explores the aberrant expression of small nucleolar RNA U3 (U3 snoRNA) in pterygium and elucidates the molecular mechanisms of U3 snoRNA in pterygium development. Methods: Primary human conjunctival fibroblasts (HCFs) and human pterygium fibroblasts (HPFs) were separated and cultured from fresh conjunctiva grafts and pterygium tissues. The PLKO.1 lentiviral system and CRISPR/Cas9 recombinant construct were, respectively, used to overexpress and silence U3 snoRNA in HPFs and HCFs for further specific phenotype analysis. RNA-seq and TMT-labeled quantitative protein mass spectrometry were utilized to evaluate the effect of U3 snoRNA on mRNA transcripts and protein synthesis. Results: Reduced U3 snoRNA in pterygium promotes HCF or HPF cells' proliferation, migration, and cell cycle but has no significant effect on apoptosis. U3 snoRNA modulates 18S rRNA synthesis through shearing precursor ribosomal RNA 47S rRNA at the 5' external transcribed spacer (5' ETS). Moreover, the altered U3 snoRNA causes mRNA and protein differential expression in HCF or HPF cells. Conclusions: The atypical U3 snoRNA regulates the translation of specific proteins to exert a suppressive function in pterygium through modulating the 18S rRNA synthesis. Here, we uncover a novel insight into U3 snoRNA biology in the development of pterygium.
PXD027727	35472331	Histone chaperone ASF1 acts with RIF1 to promote DNA end joining in BRCA1-deficient cells. 	ASF1 acts with RIF1 to promote DNA end-joining in BRCA1 deficient cells	ASF1, RIF1, TAP-MS, interactome	Replication timing regulatory factor 1 (RIF1) acts downstream of p53-binding protein 53BP1 to inhibit the resection of DNA broken ends, which plays critical roles in determining the DNA double-strand break repair pathway choice between nonhomologous end joining and homologous recombination (HR). However, the mechanism by which this choice is made is not yet clear. In this study, we identified that histone chaperone protein ASF1 associates with RIF1 and regulates RIF1-dependent functions in the DNA damage response. Similar to loss of RIF1, we found that loss of ASF1 resulted in resistance to poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibition in BRCA1-deficient cells with restored HR and decreased telomere fusion in telomeric repeat-binding protein 2 (TRF2)-depleted cells. Moreover, we showed that these functions of ASF1 are dependent on its interaction with RIF1 but not on its histone chaperone activity. Thus, our study supports a new role for ASF1 in dictating double-strand break repair choice. Considering that the status of 53BP1-RIF1 axis is important in determining the outcome of PARP inhibitor-based therapy in BRCA1- or HR-deficient cancers, the identification of ASF1 function in this critical pathway uncovers an interesting connection between these S-phase events, which may reveal new strategies to overcome PARP inhibitor resistance.
PXD032891	35474733	Directed evolution of adeno-associated virus 5 capsid enables specific liver tropism. 	Direct Evolution of Adeno-Associated Virus 5 Capsid Enables Specific Liver Tropism	AAV5, liver tropism, low seroreactivity, novel capsid	Impressive achievements in clinical trials to treat hemophilia establish a milestone in the development of gene therapy. It highlights the significance of AAV-mediated gene delivery to liver. AAV5 is a unique serotype featured by low neutralizing antibody prevalence. Nevertheless, its liver infectivity is relatively weak. Consequently, it is vital to exploit novel AAV5 capsid mutants with robust liver tropism. To this aim, we performed AAV5-NNK library and barcode screening in mice, from which we identified one capsid variant, called AAVzk2. AAVzk2 displayed a similar yield but divergent post-translational modification sites compared with wild-type serotypes. Mice intravenously injected with AAVzk2 demonstrated a stronger liver transduction than AAV5, roughly comparable with AAV8 and AAV9, with undetectable transduction of other tissues or organs such as heart, lung, spleen, kidney, brain, and skeletal muscle, indicating a liver-specific tropism. Further studies showed a superior human hepatocellular transduction of AAVzk2 to AAV5, AAV8 and AAV9, whereas the seroreactivity of AAVzk2 was as low as AAV5. Overall, we provide a novel AAV serotype that facilitates a robust and specific liver gene delivery to a large population, especially those unable to be treated by AAV8 and AAV9.
PXD026304	35474788	Utilizing Quantitative Proteomics to Identify Species-Specific Protein Therapeutic Targets for the Treatment of Leishmaniasis. 	Utilizing of quantitative proteomics to identify species-specific protein therapeutic target for treatment of leishmaniasis.	antigenic molecules, orbitrap	Leishmaniasis is a tropical disease caused by Leishmania parasites, which are transmitted through the bites of infected sandflies. We focused on the emergence of leishmaniasis in Thailand caused by a species (Leishmania orientalis). Treatment by chemotherapy is not effective against L. orientalis. Hence, we intended to solve this issue using a proteomics approach to investigate protein profiles and in silico analysis for the identification of antigenic proteins from L. orientalis, Leishmania martiniquensis, and Leishmania donovani. Using principal component analysis (PCA), protein profile comparisons indicated that different species of Leishmania are different at the protein level. Proteomics analysis identified 6099 proteins. Among these proteins, 1065 proteins were used for further analysis. There were 16 proteins that were promising candidates for therapeutic aspects as they were abundantly expressed and common to all species. In silico analysis of protein's antigenicity revealed that eight proteins had the potential for the development of antigenic molecules. Protein profile information and these antigenic proteins may play key roles in the pathogeny of leishmaniasis and can be used as novel therapeutic targets against leishmaniasis in the future.
PXD026996	35474870	Motif-centric phosphoproteomics to target kinase-mediated signaling pathways. 	Motif-centric phosphoproteomics to target kinase-mediated signaling pathways	IMAC, Kinase, Motif centric, Phosphoproteome	Identifying cellular phosphorylation pathways based on kinase-substrate relationships is a critical step to understanding the regulation of physiological functions in cells. Mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics workflows have made it possible to comprehensively collect information on individual phosphorylation sites in a variety of samples. However, there is still no generic approach to uncover phosphorylation networks based on kinase-substrate relationships in rare cell populations. Here, we describe a motif-centric phosphoproteomics approach combined with multiplexed isobaric labeling, in which in vitro kinase reactions are used to generate targeted phosphopeptides, which are spiked into one of the isobaric channels to increase detectability. Proof-of-concept experiments demonstrate selective and comprehensive quantification of targeted phosphopeptides by using multiple kinases for motif-centric channels. More than 7,000 tyrosine phosphorylation sites were quantified from several tens of micrograms of starting materials. This approach enables the quantification of multiple phosphorylation pathways under physiological or pathological regulation in a motif-centric manner.
PXD027974	35478201	2 deoxy-D-glucose augments the mitochondrial respiratory chain in heart. 	Proteomic analysis of mouse hearts treated with and without 2-deoxy-D-glucose	2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG), differential proteomics, heart, nutrient metabolism	2-Deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) has recently received emergency approval for the treatment of COVID-19 in India, after a successful clinical trial. SARS-CoV-2 infection of cultured cells is accompanied by elevated glycolysis and decreased mitochondrial function, whereas 2DG represses glycolysis and stimulates respiration, and restricts viral replication. While 2DG has pleiotropic effects on cell metabolism in cultured cells it is not known which of these manifests in vivo. On the other hand, it is known that 2DG given continuously can have severe detrimental effects on the rodent heart. Here, we show that the principal effect of an extended, intermittent 2DG treatment on mice is to augment the mitochondrial respiratory chain proteome in the heart; importantly, this occurs without vacuolization, hypertrophy or fibrosis. The increase in the heart respiratory chain proteome suggests an increase in mitochondrial oxidative capacity, which could compensate for the energy deficit caused by the inhibition of glycolysis. Thus, 2DG in the murine heart appears to induce a metabolic configuration that is the opposite of SARS-CoV-2 infected cells, which could explain the compound's ability to restrict the propagation of the virus to the benefit of patients with COVID-19 disease.
PXD032745	35478954	Copper Metabolism in Naegleria gruberi and Its Deadly Relative Naegleria fowleri. 	Copper metabolism in Naegleria gruberi and its deadly relative Naegleria fowleri.	CTR copper transporters, DJ-1, ETC, Naegleria fowleri, Naegleria gruberi, alternative NADH dehydrogenase, alternative oxidase, copper	Although copper is an essential nutrient crucial for many biological processes, an excessive concentration can be toxic and lead to cell death. The metabolism of this two-faced metal must be strictly regulated at the cell level. In this study, we investigated copper homeostasis in two related unicellular organisms: nonpathogenic Naegleria gruberi and the "brain-eating amoeba" Naegleria fowleri. We identified and confirmed the function of their specific copper transporters securing the main pathway of copper acquisition. Adjusting to different environments with varying copper levels during the life cycle of these organisms requires various metabolic adaptations. Using comparative proteomic analyses, measuring oxygen consumption, and enzymatic determination of NADH dehydrogenase, we showed that both amoebas respond to copper deprivation by upregulating the components of the branched electron transport chain: the alternative oxidase and alternative NADH dehydrogenase. Interestingly, analysis of iron acquisition indicated that this system is copper-dependent in N. gruberi but not in its pathogenic relative. Importantly, we identified a potential key protein of copper metabolism of N. gruberi, the homolog of human DJ-1 protein, which is known to be linked to Parkinson's disease. Altogether, our study reveals the mechanisms underlying copper metabolism in the model amoeba N. gruberi and the fatal pathogen N. fowleri and highlights the differences between the two amoebas.
PXD031598	35479414	Selective activation of ABCA1/ApoA1 signaling in the V1 by magnetoelectric stimulation ameliorates depression via regulation of synaptic plasticity. 	Depression mice primary visual cortex proteome	depression, primary visual cortex	Emerging evidence suggests that dysfunction of the visual cortex may be involved in major depressive disorder (MDD). However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We previously established that combined magnetic stimulation system treatment (c-MSST) resulted in an antidepressant effect in mice. In the present study, we found that V1-targeted c-MSST induced significant antidepressant effects in chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)- and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-treated mice. Proteomic screening investigation and repeatable validation revealed that expression of the V1 neuronal ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) and apolipoprotein A-1 (ApoA1) was downregulated in CUMS mice, an effect that was normalized by c-MSST. Neuron-specific knockdown of ABCA1 in V1 blocked c-MSST's antidepressant effects. Mechanistically, CUMS reduced dendritic spine density and long-term plasticity in V1, and these deficits were reversed by c-MSST. V1-targeted c-MSST was found to induce rapid antidepressant effects that are mediated by alterations in synaptic plasticity via the ABCA1/ApoA1 signaling pathway in V1.
PXD032749	35479629	Secretome Analysis of Macrophomina phaseolina Identifies an Array of Putative Virulence Factors Responsible for Charcoal Rot Disease in Plants. 	Macrophomina phaseolina Secretome LC-ESI-MS-MS	LC-ESI-MS-MS, Macrophomina phaseolina, Secretome	Macrophomina phaseolina is a global devastating necrotrophic fungal pathogen. It causes charcoal rot disease in more than 500 host plants including major food crops, pulse crops, fiber crops, and oil crops. Despite having the whole-genome sequence of M. phaseolina, understanding the M. phaseolina genome-based plant-pathogen interactions is limited in the absence of direct experimental proof of secretion. Thus, it is essential to understand the host-microbe interaction and the disease pathogenesis, which can ensure global agricultural crop production and security. An in silico-predicted secretome of M. phaseolina is unable to represent the actual secretome. We could identify 117 proteins present in the secretome of M. phaseolina using liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD032749. An array of putative virulence factors of M. phaseolina were identified in the present study using solid-state culture. Similar virulence factors have been reported in other plant pathogenic fungi also. Among the secretory fungal proteins with positive economic impacts, lignocellulolytic enzymes are of prime importance. Further, we validated our results by detecting the cell wall-degrading enzymes xylanase, endoglucanase, and amylase in the secretome of M. phaseolina. The present study may provide a better understanding about the necrotrophic fungi M. phaseolina, which modulate the host plant defense barriers using secretory proteins.
PXD028322	35481270	Transcriptome and Proteome Analysis in LUHMES Cells Overexpressing Alpha-Synuclein. 	Transcriptome and proteome analysis in LUHMES cells overexpressing alpha-synculein	LUHMES cells, Neurodegenerative Diseases, Parkinson's disease (PD), SNCA, Transcriptome, alpha-synculein	LUHMES cells share many characteristics with human dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, the cells, the demise of which is responsible for the motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease (PD). LUHMES cells can, therefore, be used bona fide as a model to study pathophysiological processes involved in PD. Previously, we showed that LUHMES cells degenerate after 6 days upon overexpression of wild-type alpha-synuclein. In the present study, we performed a transcriptome and proteome expression analysis in alpha-synuclein-overexpressing cells and GFP-expressing control cells in order to identify genes and proteins that are differentially regulated upon overexpression of alpha-synuclein. The analysis was performed 4 days after the initiation of alpha-synuclein or GFP overexpression, before the cells died, in order to identify processes that preceded cell death. After adjustments for multiple testing, we found 765 genes being differentially regulated (439 upregulated, 326 downregulated) and 122 proteins being differentially expressed (75 upregulated, 47 downregulated). In total, 21 genes and corresponding proteins were significantly differentially regulated in the same direction in both datasets, of these 13 were upregulated and 8 were downregulated. In total, 13 genes and 9 proteins were differentially regulated in our cell model, which had been previously associated with PD in recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS). In the gene ontology (GO) analysis of all upregulated genes, the top terms were "regulation of cell death," "positive regulation of programmed cell death," and "regulation of apoptotic signaling pathway," showing a regulation of cell death-associated genes and proteins already 2 days before the cells started to die. In the GO analysis of the regulated proteins, among the strongest enriched GO terms were "vesicle," "synapse," and "lysosome." In total, 33 differentially regulated proteins were associated with synapses, and 12 differentially regulated proteins were associated with the "lysosome", suggesting that these intracellular mechanisms, which had been previously associated with PD, also play an important role in our cell model.
PXD032767	35481283	Characterization of plasma circulating small extracellular vesicles in patients with metastatic solid tumors and newly diagnosed brain metastasis. 	Characterization of plasma circulating small extracellular vesicles in patients with metastatic solid tumors and newly diagnosed brain metastasis	brain metastasis, exosomes, plasma	Nearly 40% of the advanced cancer patients will present brain metastases during the course of their disease, with a 2-year life expectancy of less than 10%. Immune system impairment, including the modulation of both STAT3 and PD-L1, is one of the hallmarks of brain metastases. Liquid biopsy could offer several advantages in brain metastases management, such as the possibility of noninvasive dynamic monitoring. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been recently proposed as novel biomarkers especially useful in liquid biopsy due to their secretion in biofluids and their role in cell communication during tumor progression. The main aim of this work was to characterize the size and protein cargo of plasma circulating EVs in patients with solid tumors and their correlation with newly diagnosed brain metastases, in addition to their association with other relevant clinical variables. We analyzed circulating EVs in the plasma of 123 patients: 42 patients with brain metastases, 50 without brain metastases and 31 healthy controls. Patients with newly diagnosed brain metastases had a lower number of circulating EVs in the plasma and a higher protein concentration in small EVs (sEVs) compared to patients without brain metastases and healthy controls. Interestingly, melanoma patients with brain metastases presented decreased STAT3 activation and increased PD-L1 levels in circulating sEVs compared to patients without central nervous system metastases. Decreased STAT3 activation and increased PD-L1 in plasma circulating sEVs identify melanoma patients with brain metastasis.
PXD030331	35481895	Characterizing the N- and O-linked glycans of the PGF-CTERM sorting domain-containing S-layer protein of Methanoculleus marisnigri. 	Identification of novel glycan modification on S-layer protein from Methanoculleus Marisnigri	Archaea, N-Glycosylation, O-Glycosylation, Post-translational modification, S-layer protein	The glycosylation of structural proteins is a widespread posttranslational modification in Archaea. Although only a handful of archaeal N-glycan structures have been determined to date, it is evident that the diversity of structures expressed is greater than in the other domains of life. Here, we report on our investigation of the N- and O-glycan modifications expressed by Methanoculleus marisnigri, a mesophilic methanogen from the Order Methanomicrobiales. Unusually, mass spectrometry (MS) analysis of purified archaella revealed no evidence for N- or O-glycosylation of the constituent archaellins, In contrast, the S-layer protein, identified as a PGF-CTERM sorting domain-containing protein encoded by MEMAR_RS02690, is both N- and O-glycosylated. Two N-glycans were identified by NMR and MS analysis: a trisaccharide alpha-GlcNAc-4-beta-GlcNAc3NGaAN-4-beta-Glc-Asn where the second residue is 2-N-acetyl, 3-N-glyceryl-glucosamide and a disaccharide beta-GlcNAc3NAcAN-4-beta-Glc-Asn, where the terminal residue is 2,3 di-N-acetyl-glucosamide. The same trisaccharide was also found N-linked to a type IV pilin. The S-layer protein is also extensively modified in the threonine-rich region near the C-terminus with O-glycans composed exclusively of hexoses. While the S-layer protein has a predicted PGF-CTERM processing site, no evidence of a truncated and lipidated C-terminus, the expected product of processing by an archaeosortase, was found. Finally, NMR also identified a polysaccharide expressed by M. marisnigri and composed of a repeating tetrasaccharide unit of [-2-beta-Ribf-3-alpha-Rha2OMe-3-alpha-Rha - 2-alpha-Rha-]. This is the first report of N- and O-glycosylation in an archaeon from the Order Methanomicrobiales.
PXD030421	35482949	Impact of Carbon Source Supplementations on Pseudomonas aeruginosa Physiology. 	Impact of carbon source supplementations on Pseudomonas aeruginosa physiology	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, antibiotic resistance, biofilm, carbon sources, physiologi-cal changes, virulence	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen highly resistant to a wide range of antimicrobial agents, making its infections very difficult to treat. Since microorganisms need to perpetually adapt to their surrounding environment, understanding the effect of carbon sources on P. aeruginosa physiology is therefore essential to avoid increasing drug-resistance and better fight this pathogen. By a global proteomic approach and phenotypic assays, we investigated the impact of various carbon source supplementations (glucose, glutamate, succinate, and citrate) on the physiology of the P. aeruginosa PA14 strain. A total of 581 proteins were identified as differentially expressed in the 4 conditions. Most of them were more abundant in citrate supplementation and were involved in virulence, motility, biofilm development, and antibiotic resistance. Phenotypic assays were performed to check these hypotheses. By coupling all this data, we highlight the importance of the environment in which the bacterium evolves on its metabolism, and thus the necessity to better understand the metabolic pathways implied in its adaptative response according to the nutrient availability.
PXD029649	35483652	Integrated insights into the mechanisms underlying sepsis-induced myocardial depression using a quantitative global proteomic analysis. 	Quantitative analysis of the global proteome of heart tissue in septic shock	myocardial depression, sepsis, shock	Sepsis-induced myocardial depression is common among patients in the intensive care unit; however, the exact mechanisms underlying this condition remain unclear. We investigated differences in the expression of specific proteins and determined the potential functions of the proteins in a rat model of lipopolysaccharide-induced septic shock. Left ventricular tissue was excised from 16 rats (sepsis group, 8; control group, 8) and analysed. Quantitative analysis of the global proteome was performed using 4D label-free technique. Bioinformatic analyses were conducted based on differentially expressed (DE) proteins. Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) validation for selected proteins and western blotting for selected global protein modifications in heart tissues were also performed. As a result, out of 3653 proteins identified, 108 were expressed differentially between the two groups. The bioinformatic analyses revealed that DE proteins play important roles in metabolism- and immune-related pathways. PRM results supported the plausibility and reliability of the proteomics data. Modification of heart tissue acetyllysine, succinyllysine, 2-hydroxyisobutyryllysine, and lactyllysine revealed clear differences between the two groups, indicating the effects of protein modification. Our study suggested that expression patterns of global proteins in heart tissue were different between the two groups. These results provide new valuable information on the possible mechanisms underlying sepsis-induced myocardial depression. SIGNIFICANCE: The expression patterns of global proteins in the heart tissues of patients with sepsis and control groups remain unknown. In this study, we used the 4D label-free proteomics technique to compare differentially expressed (DE) proteins between the sepsis and control groups. We identified 3653 proteins, 108 of which were expressed differentially between the sepsis and control groups. Further bioinformatic analyses revealed that DE proteins play critical roles in metabolism- and immune-related processes and pathways. Interestingly, modification of heart tissue acetyllysine, succinyllysine, 2-hydroxyisobutyryllysine, and lactyllysine revealed clear differences between the sepsis and control groups. The findings of this study improve our understanding of the basic molecular mechanisms underlying sepsis-induced myocardial depression.
PXD028753	35484284	Protein N-glycosylation aberrations and glycoproteomic network alterations in osteoarthritis and osteoarthritis with type 2 diabetes. 	Protein N-glycosylation aberrations and glycoproteomic network alterations in Osteoarthritis and Osteoarthritis with Type 2 diabetes	Glycoproteomic, N-glycosylation, Osteoarthritis, Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus	Whether the relationship between type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and osteoarthritis (OA) can be solely attributed to the shared risk factors, such as obesity, remains controversial. Several studies have revealed the critical role of abnormal glycosylation in the pathogenesis of OA and T2DM. Therefore, we speculate that T2DM may contribute to the pathogenesis of OA through the intrinsic mechanisms of N-glycosylation aberrations. Using N-glycoproteomics, we compared the changes in N-glycosylated protein abundance in cartilage samples from patients with OA without and with T2DM (DM-OA), and from patients with traumatic joint injury (NC) as controls. We identified 847 N-glycosylation sites corresponding to 729 peptides fragments from 374 proteins. The number of N-glycosylated proteins in the DM-OA group tended to decrease compared with that in the OA and NC groups. We identified 22 upregulated and 1 down-regulated N-glycosylated peptides in the OA group compared to the NC group, while only fibronectin 1 (FN1) at position N1007, cartilage intermediate layer protein 1 (CILP) at N346, and collagen type VI alpha 1 chain (COL6A1) at N804, were also identified in the DM-OA group. Compared to the OA group, the downregulation of secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC) at N116, collagen type VI alpha 1 chain (COL6A2) at N785, and asporin (ASPN) at N282, and the upregulation of complement component C8 alpha chain (C8alpha) at N437, were the most remarkable alterations in the DM-OA group. The differentially expressed N-glycosylated proteins between the OA and DM-OA groups were mainly located extracellularly and enriched in the KEGG pathways involving PI3K/Akt signaling, focal adhesion, and ECM-receptor interaction. Their predicted protein-protein interactions were also depicted. We were thus able to show the general characteristics of N-glycosylation aberrations in OA and DM-OA. Moreover, the upregulated glycosylated complement C8alpha in the DM-OA group might augment membrane attack complex activity, thereby exacerbating cartilage destruction. Although further confirmation is required, our hypothesis proposes a possible explanation for the deduction that T2DM is an independent risk factor for OA.
PXD026657	35484434	Target deconvolution of HDAC pharmacopoeia reveals MBLAC2 as common off-target. 	Target deconvolution of HDAC pharmacopoeia highlights MBLAC2 as common off-target	Cancer cell lines, DDA, affinity pulldown	Drugs that target histone deacetylase (HDAC) entered the pharmacopoeia in the 2000s. However, some enigmatic phenotypes suggest off-target engagement. Here, we developed a quantitative chemical proteomics assay using immobilized HDAC inhibitors and mass spectrometry that we deployed to establish the target landscape of 53 drugs. The assay covers 9 of the 11 human zinc-dependent HDACs, questions the reported selectivity of some widely-used molecules (notably for HDAC6) and delineates how the composition of HDAC complexes influences drug potency. Unexpectedly, metallo-beta-lactamase domain-containing protein 2 (MBLAC2) featured as a frequent off-target of hydroxamate drugs. This poorly characterized palmitoyl-CoA hydrolase is inhibited by 24 HDAC inhibitors at low nanomolar potency. MBLAC2 enzymatic inhibition and knockdown led to the accumulation of extracellular vesicles. Given the importance of extracellular vesicle biology in neurological diseases and cancer, this HDAC-independent drug effect may qualify MBLAC2 as a target for drug discovery.
PXD031246	35485935	PACTS-Assisted Thermal Proteome Profiling for Use in Identifying Peptide-Interacting Proteins. 	PACTS-assisted thermal proteome profiling identifies peptide-interacting proteins	Amyloid beta 1-42, Peptide-protein interaction, Protein stability, TMT labeling, Thermal proteome profiling	Bioactive peptides play important roles in various biological processes. However, the traditional methods for profiling the peptide-interacting proteins require modifications to the peptide molecules, often leading to false identifications. We found that the interaction between peptide ligands and protein receptors induced significant changes in the abundance of the interacting proteins, which is a signature indicating the interaction and providing complementary information for use in the classical thermal proteome profiling (TPP) technique. Herein, we developed a novel Peptide-ligand-induced Abundance Change of proTeinS (PACTS)-assisted TPP strategy for the identification of peptide-interacting proteins based on the peptide-ligand-induced change in protein abundance. The utility and efficacy of this approach were demonstrated by the identification of the interaction of the protein 3-phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase 1 (PDPK1) and PDPK1-interacting fragment (PIF) pair and by large-scale profiling of the interacting proteins of PIF. The PACTS-assisted TPP approach was applied to describe the interactome of amyloid beta (Abeta) 1-42 in THP-1 cells and resulted in the identification of 103 interacting proteins. Validation experiments indicated that Abeta1-42 interacted directly with fatty acid synthase and inhibited its enzymatic activity, providing insights into fatty acid metabolic disorders in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Overall, PACTS-assisted TPP is an efficient approach, and the newly identified Abeta-interacting proteins provide rich resources for the research on AD.
PXD032138	35487243	Protein proximity networks and functional evaluation of the casein kinase 1 gamma family reveal unique roles for CK1gamma3 in WNT signaling. 	Protein proximity networks and functional evaluation of the Casein Kinase 1 gamma family reveals unique roles for CK1gamma3 in WNT signaling	WNT signaling, casein kinase 1 gamma	Aberrant activation or suppression of WNT/beta-catenin signaling contributes to cancer initiation and progression, neurodegeneration, and bone disease. However, despite great need and more than 40 years of research, targeted therapies for the WNT pathway have yet to be fully realized. Kinases are considered exceptionally druggable and occupy key nodes within the WNT signaling network, but several pathway-relevant kinases remain understudied and "dark." Here, we studied the function of the casein kinase 1gamma (CSNK1gamma) subfamily of human kinases and their roles in WNT signaling. miniTurbo-based proximity biotinylation and mass spectrometry analysis of CSNK1gamma1, CSNK1gamma2, and CSNK1gamma3 revealed numerous components of the beta-catenin-dependent and beta-catenin-independent WNT pathways. In gain-of-function experiments, we found that CSNK1gamma3 but not CSNK1gamma1 or CSNK1gamma2 activated beta-catenin-dependent WNT signaling, with minimal effect on other signaling pathways. We also show that within the family, CSNK1gamma3 expression uniquely induced low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 phosphorylation, which mediates downstream WNT signaling transduction. Conversely, siRNA-mediated silencing of CSNK1gamma3 alone had no impact on WNT signaling, though cosilencing of all three family members decreased WNT pathway activity. Finally, we characterized two moderately selective and potent small-molecule inhibitors of the CSNK1gamma family. We show that these inhibitors and a CSNK1gamma3 kinase-dead mutant suppressed but did not eliminate WNT-driven low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 phosphorylation and beta-catenin stabilization. Our data suggest that while CSNK1gamma3 expression uniquely drives pathway activity, potential functional redundancy within the family necessitates loss of all three family members to suppress the WNT signaling pathway.
PXD033057	35487244	Discovery of two distinct aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase complexes anchored to the Plasmodium surface tRNA import protein. 	Two aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase complexes anchored to the Plasmodium surface tRNA import protein	Cell surface protein  Multi-aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase complex (MARS/MSC), GST-like domain, RNA binding protein, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase, aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase-interacting multifunctional proteins (AIMP), protein complex, tRNA	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (aaRSs) attach amino acids to their cognate transfer RNAs. In eukaryotes, a subset of cytosolic aaRSs is organized into a multisynthetase complex (MSC), along with specialized scaffolding proteins referred to as aaRS-interacting multifunctional proteins (AIMPs). In Plasmodium, the causative agent of malaria, the tRNA import protein (tRip), is a membrane protein that participates in tRNA trafficking; we show that tRip also functions as an AIMP. We identified three aaRSs, the glutamyl-tRNA synthetase (ERS), glutaminyl-tRNA synthetase (QRS), and methionyl-tRNA synthetase (MRS), which were specifically coimmunoprecipitated with tRip in Plasmodium berghei blood stage parasites. All four proteins contain an N-terminal glutathione-S-transferase (GST)-like domain that was demonstrated to be involved in MSC assembly. In contrast to previous studies, further dissection of GST-like interactions identified two exclusive heterotrimeric complexes: the Q-complex (tRip-ERS-QRS) and the M-complex (tRip-ERS-MRS). Gel filtration and light scattering suggest a 2:2:2 stoichiometry for both complexes but with distinct biophysical properties and mutational analysis further revealed that the GST-like domains of QRS and MRS use different strategies to bind ERS. Taken together, our results demonstrate that neither the singular homodimerization of tRip nor its localization in the parasite plasma membrane prevents the formation of MSCs in Plasmodium. Besides, the extracellular localization of the tRNA-binding module of tRip is compensated by the presence of additional tRNA-binding modules fused to MRS and QRS, providing each MSC with two spatially distinct functions: aminoacylation of intraparasitic tRNAs and binding of extracellular tRNAs. This unique host-pathogen interaction is discussed.
PXD028534	35489065	Phosphorylation of the FACT histone chaperone subunit SPT16 affects chromatin at RNA polymerase II transcriptional start sites in Arabidopsis. 	Phosphorylation of the FACT histone chaperone subunit SPT16 modulates Arabidopsis development and affects chromatin at RNA polymerase II transcriptional start sites	FACT complex, acetylation, phosphorylation	The heterodimeric histone chaperone FACT, consisting of SSRP1 and SPT16, contributes to dynamic nucleosome rearrangements during various DNA-dependent processes including transcription. In search of post-translational modifications that may regulate the activity of FACT, SSRP1 and SPT16 were isolated from Arabidopsis cells and analysed by mass spectrometry. Four acetylated lysine residues could be mapped within the basic C-terminal region of SSRP1, while three phosphorylated serine/threonine residues were identified in the acidic C-terminal region of SPT16. Mutational analysis of the SSRP1 acetylation sites revealed only mild effects. However, phosphorylation of SPT16 that is catalysed by protein kinase CK2, modulates histone interactions. A non-phosphorylatable version of SPT16 displayed reduced histone binding and proved inactive in complementing the growth and developmental phenotypes of spt16 mutant plants. In plants expressing the non-phosphorylatable SPT16 version we detected at a subset of genes enrichment of histone H3 directly upstream of RNA polymerase II transcriptional start sites (TSSs) in a region that usually is nucleosome-depleted. This suggests that some genes require phosphorylation of the SPT16 acidic region for establishing the correct nucleosome occupancy at the TSS of active genes.
PXD029701	35489070	Reovirus mu2 protein modulates host cell alternative splicing by reducing protein levels of U5 snRNP core components. 	IP-MS of GFP tagged MRV Î¼2 protein	Virus IP-MS AP-MS GFP MRV reovirus Î¼2	Mammalian orthoreovirus (MRV) is a double-stranded RNA virus from the Reoviridae family presenting a promising activity as an oncolytic virus. Recent studies have underlined MRV's ability to alter cellular alternative splicing (AS) during infection, with a limited understanding of the mechanisms at play. In this study, we investigated how MRV modulates AS. Using a combination of cell biology and reverse genetics experiments, we demonstrated that the M1 gene segment, encoding the mu2 protein, is the primary determinant of MRV's ability to alter AS, and that the amino acid at position 208 in mu2 is critical to induce these changes. Moreover, we showed that the expression of mu2 by itself is sufficient to trigger AS changes, and its ability to enter the nucleus is not required for all these changes. Moreover, we identified core components of the U5 snRNP (i.e. EFTUD2, PRPF8, and SNRNP200) as interactors of mu2 that are required for MRV modulation of AS. Finally, these U5 snRNP components are reduced at the protein level by both MRV infection and mu2 expression. Our findings identify the reduction of U5 snRNP components levels as a new mechanism by which viruses alter cellular AS.
PXD031985	35489072	Conformational rearrangements upon start codon recognition in human 48S translation initiation complex. 	Conformational rearrangements upon start codon recognition in human 48S translation initiation complex	48S initiation comples, Ribosome, eIF1	Selection of the translation start codon is a key step during protein synthesis in human cells. We obtained cryo-EM structures of human 48S initiation complexes and characterized the intermediates of codon recognition by kinetic methods using eIF1A as a reporter. Both approaches capture two distinct ribosome populations formed on an mRNA with a cognate AUG codon in the presence of eIF1, eIF1A, eIF2-GTP-Met-tRNAiMet and eIF3. The 'open' 40S subunit conformation differs from the human 48S scanning complex and represents an intermediate preceding the codon recognition step. The 'closed' form is similar to reported structures of complexes from yeast and mammals formed upon codon recognition, except for the orientation of eIF1A, which is unique in our structure. Kinetic experiments show how various initiation factors mediate the population distribution of open and closed conformations until 60S subunit docking. Our results provide insights into the timing and structure of human translation initiation intermediates and suggest the differences in the mechanisms of start codon selection between mammals and yeast.
PXD030714	35489684	A ubiquitinome analysis to study the functional roles of the proteasome associated deubiquitinating enzymes USP14 and UCH37. 	A ubiquitinome analysis to study the functional roles of the proteasome associated deubiquitinating enzymes USP14 and UCH37	SILAC, UCH37/UCHL5, USP14, deubiquitinase (DUB), parallel reaction monitoring, proteasome, quantitative mass spectrometry, ubiquitin, ubiquitinome, ubiquitinomics	The removal of (poly)ubiquitin chains at the proteasome is a key step in the protein degradation pathway that determines which proteins are degraded and ultimately decides cell fate. Three different deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) are associated to the human proteasome, PSMD14 (RPN11), USP14 and UCH37 (UCHL5). However, the functional roles and specificities of these proteasomal DUBs remain elusive. To reveal the specificities of proteasome associated DUBs, we used SILAC based quantitative ubiquitinomics to study the effects of CRISPR-Cas9 based knockout of each of these DUBs on the dynamic cellular ubiquitinome. We observed distinct effects on the global ubiquitinome upon removal of either USP14 or UCH37, while the simultaneous removal of both DUBs suggested less functional redundancy than previously anticipated. We also investigated whether the small molecule inhibitor b-AP15 has the potential to specifically target USP14 and UCH37 by comparing treatment of wild-type versus USP14/UCH37 double-knockout cells with this drug. Strikingly, broad and severe off-target effects were observed, questioning the alleged specificity of this inhibitor. In conclusion, this work presents novel insights into the function of proteasome associated DUBs and illustrates the power of in-depth ubiquitinomics for screening the activity of DUBs and of DUB modulating compounds. SIGNIFICANCE: Introduction: The removal of (poly)ubiquitin chains at the proteasome is a key step in the protein degradation pathway that determines which proteins are degraded and ultimately decides cell fate. Three different deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) are associated to the human proteasome, PSMD14/RPN11, USP14 and UCH37/UCHL5. However, the functional roles and specificities of these proteasomal DUBs remains elusive. MATERIALS & METHODS: We have applied a SILAC based quantitative ubiquitinomics to study the effects of CRISPR-Cas9 based knockout of each of these DUBs on the dynamic cellular ubiquitinome. Also, we have studied the function of the small molecule inhibitor b-AP15, which has the potential to specifically target USP14 and UCH37. RESULTS: We report distinct effects on the ubiquitinome and the ability of the proteasome to clear proteins upon removal of either USP14 or UCH37, while the simultaneous removal of both DUBs suggests less redundancy than previously anticipated. In addition, broad and severe off-target effects were observed for b-AP15, questioning the alleged specificity of this inhibitor. CONCLUSIONS: This work presents novel insights into the function of proteasome associated DUBs and illustrates the power of in-depth ubiquitinomics for screening the activity of DUBs and of DUB modulating compounds.
PXD031884	35491676	Liver gene therapy with intein-mediated F8 trans-splicing corrects mouse haemophilia A. 	F8 intein precise CodopN6 reconstitution	AAV-intein, Liver gene therapy, full length protein reconstitution, haemophilia A, protein trans-splicing	Liver gene therapy with adeno-associated viral (AAV) vectors is under clinical investigation for haemophilia A (HemA), the most common inherited X-linked bleeding disorder. Major limitations are the large size of the F8 transgene, which makes packaging in a single AAV vector a challenge, as well as the development of circulating anti-F8 antibodies which neutralise F8 activity. Taking advantage of split-intein-mediated protein trans-splicing, we divided the coding sequence of the large and highly secreted F8-N6 variant in two separate AAV-intein vectors whose co-administration to HemA mice results in the expression of therapeutic levels of F8 over time. This occurred without eliciting circulating anti-F8 antibodies unlike animals treated with the single oversized AAV-F8 vector under clinical development. Therefore, liver gene therapy with AAV-F8-N6 intein should be considered as a potential therapeutic strategy for HemA.
PXD029952	35495653	Cas1 and Fen1 Display Equivalent Functions During Archaeal DNA Repair. 	Cas1 and Fen1 Display Commutable Functions During Archaeal DNA Damage Repair	CRISPR, Cas1, DNA damage, Fen1, archaea	CRISPR-Cas constitutes an adaptive prokaryotic defence system against invasive nucleic acids like viruses and plasmids. Beyond their role in immunity, CRISPR-Cas systems have been shown to closely interact with components of cellular DNA repair pathways, either by regulating their expression or via direct protein-protein contact and enzymatic activity. The integrase Cas1 is usually involved in the adaptation phase of CRISPR-Cas immunity but an additional role in cellular DNA repair pathways has been proposed previously. Here, we analysed the capacity of an archaeal Cas1 from Haloferax volcanii to act upon DNA damage induced by oxidative stress and found that a deletion of the cas1 gene led to reduced survival rates following stress induction. In addition, our results indicate that Cas1 is directly involved in DNA repair as the enzymatically active site of the protein is crucial for growth under oxidative conditions. Based on biochemical assays, we propose a mechanism by which Cas1 plays a similar function to DNA repair protein Fen1 by cleaving branched intermediate structures. The present study broadens our understanding of the functional link between CRISPR-Cas immunity and DNA repair by demonstrating that Cas1 and Fen1 display equivalent roles during archaeal DNA damage repair.
PXD030761	35495665	BasS/BasR Two-Component System Affects the Sensitivity of Escherichia coli to Plantaricin BM-1 by Regulating the Tricarboxylic Acid Cycle. 	BasS/BasR two-component system affects the sensitivity of Escherichia coli to class IIa bacteriocins by regulating the tricarboxylic acid cycle	Escherichia coli, TMT, Two-component system, bacteriocin	Plantaricin BM-1, a class IIa bacteriocin produced by Lactiplantibacillus plantarum BM-1, exhibits significant antibacterial activity against many gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria. However, the mechanism underlying the action of class IIa bacteriocins against gram-negative bacteria remains to be explored. This study aimed to investigate the role of the BasS/BasR two-component system (TCS) in Escherichia coli (E. coli) K12 response to plantaricin BM-1. The IC50 values for plantaricin BM-1 in E. coli K12, basS mutant (E. coli JW4073), and basR mutant (E. coli JW4074) strains were found to be 10.85, 8.94, and 7.62 mg/mL, respectively. Growth curve experiments showed that mutations in the BasS/BasR TCS led to an increase in the sensitivity of E. coli K12 to plantaricin BM-1 and that after gene complementation, the complemented mutant strain regained its original sensitivity. Proteomic analysis showed that 100 and 26 proteins were upregulated and 62 and 58 proteins were downregulated in E. coli JW4073 and E. coli JW4074, respectively. These differential proteins, which exhibited different molecular functions and participated in different molecular pathways, were mainly concentrated in the cytoplasm. More specifically, mutations in basS and basR were found to affect the synthesis and metabolism of many substances in E. coli, including many important amino acids and enzymes involved in cellular activities. In addition, 14 proteins, including 8 proteins involved in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, were found to be downregulated in both E. coli JW4073 and E. coli JW4074. Growth curve experiments showed that the deletion of these proteins could increase the sensitivity of E. coli to plantaricin BM-1. Therefore, we speculate that TCA pathway regulation may be an important mechanism by which the BasS/BasR TCS regulates the sensitivity of E. coli to plantaricin BM-1. This finding will facilitate the determination of the mechanism underlying the action of class IIa bacteriocins against gram-negative bacteria.
PXD017467	35495697	Metaproteomic Profile of the Colonic Luminal Microbiota From Patients With Colon Cancer. 	Colon cancer luminal contents metaproteomics	colon cancer, gut, metaproteomics, microbiota	Recent studies have provided evidence of interactions among the gut microbiota (GM), local host immune cells, and intestinal tissues in colon carcinogenesis. However, little is known regarding the functions exerted by the GM in colon cancer (CC), particularly with respect to tumor clinical classification and lymphocyte infiltration. In addition, stool, usually employed as a proxy of the GM, cannot fully represent the original complexity of CC microenvironment. Here, we present a pilot study aimed at characterizing the metaproteome of CC-associated colonic luminal contents and identifying its possible associations with CC clinicopathological features. Colonic luminal contents were collected from 24 CC tissue specimens immediately after surgery. Samples were analyzed by shotgun metaproteomics. Almost 30,000 microbial peptides were quantified in the samples, enabling the achievement of the taxonomic and functional profile of the tumor-associated colonic luminal metaproteome. Upon sample aggregation based on tumor stage, grade, or tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), peptide sets enabling discrimination of sample groups were identified through discriminant analysis (DA). As a result, Bifidobacterium and Bacteroides fragilis were significantly enriched in high-stage and high-grade CC, respectively. Among metabolic functions, formate-tetrahydrofolate ligase was significantly associated with high-stage CC. Finally, based on the results of this pilot study, we assessed the optimal sample size for differential metaproteomic studies analyzing colonic luminal contents. In conclusion, we provide a detailed picture of the microbial and host components of the colonic luminal proteome and propose promising associations between GM taxonomic/functional features and CC clinicopathological features. Future studies will be needed to verify the prognostic value of these data and to fully exploit the potential of metaproteomics in enhancing our knowledge concerning CC progression.
PXD026209	35498732	Proteomic Investigation Reveals Eukaryotic Translation Initiation Factor 5A Involvement in Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome Virus Infection in vitro. 	Application of proteomics to investigation on infectious diseases of livestock and poultry	Infectious disease, Poultry and livestock	Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV), one of the most serious animal pathogens in the world, has caused enormous global swine industry losses. An in-depth investigation of the PRRSV-host interaction would be beneficial for preventing and controlling PRRSV infections and transmission. In this study, we performed label-free quantitative proteomic assays to investigate proteome dynamics of porcine alveolar macrophages (PAMs) during infection with highly pathogenic PRRSV (HP-PRRSV) strain HN07-1. Analysis of the results led to identification of 269 significantly differentially expressed host cellular proteins, of which levels of proteins belonging to the eukaryotic translation initiation factor (eIF) family were found to be decreased in abundance in HP-PRRSV-infected PAMs. Furthermore, knockdown of eIF5A expression was demonstrated to markedly suppress HP-PRRSV propagation, as reflected by reduced progeny virus titers in vitro. These results highlight the importance of eIF5A in PRRSV infection, while also demonstrating that PAMs down-regulate eIF5A expression as a host cell antiviral strategy. Results of the current study deepen our understanding of PRRSV pathogenesis and provide novel insights to guide development of effective strategies to combat the virus.
PXD023790	35499078	HAX1-dependent control of mitochondrial proteostasis governs neutrophil granulocyte differentiation. 	HAX1 controls mitochondrial proteostasis	hematopoiesis, inborn errors of immunity, protein quality control, severe congenital neutropenia	The relevance of molecular mechanisms governing mitochondrial proteostasis to the differentiation and function of hematopoietic and immune cells is largely elusive. Through dissection of the network of proteins related to HCLS1-associated protein X-1, we defined a potentially novel functional CLPB/HAX1/(PRKD2)/HSP27 axis with critical importance for the differentiation of neutrophil granulocytes and, thus, elucidated molecular and metabolic mechanisms underlying congenital neutropenia in patients with HAX1 deficiency as well as bi- and monoallelic mutations in CLPB. As shown by stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) proteomics, CLPB and HAX1 control the balance of mitochondrial protein synthesis and persistence crucial for proper mitochondrial function. Impaired mitochondrial protein dynamics are associated with decreased abundance of the serine-threonine kinase PRKD2 and HSP27 phosphorylated on serines 78 and 82. Cellular defects in HAX1-/- cells can be functionally reconstituted by HSP27. Thus, mitochondrial proteostasis emerges as a critical molecular and metabolic mechanism governing the differentiation and function of neutrophil granulocytes.
PXD031065	35500104	Uptake Mechanisms and Regulatory Responses to MECAM- and DOTAM-Based Artificial Siderophores and Their Antibiotic Conjugates in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	Uptake mechanisms and regulatory responses to MECAM- and DOTAM-based artificial siderophores and their antibiotic conjugates in Pseudomonas aeruginosa	DOTAM, MECAM, Pseudomnas, antibiotic conjugate, siderophore	The development of new antibiotics against Gram-negative bacteria has to deal with the low permeability of the outer membrane. This obstacle can be overcome by utilizing siderophore-dependent iron uptake pathways as entrance routes for antibiotic uptake. Iron-chelating siderophores are actively imported by bacteria, and their conjugation to antibiotics allows smuggling the latter into bacterial cells. Synthetic siderophore mimetics based on MECAM (1,3,5-N,N',N"-tris-(2,3-dihydroxybenzoyl)-triaminomethylbenzene) and DOTAM (1,4,7,10-tetrakis(carbamoylmethyl)-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane) cores, both chelating iron via catechol groups, have been recently applied as versatile carriers of functional cargo. In the present study, we show that MECAM and the MECAM-ampicillin conjugate 3 transport iron into Pseudomonas aeruginosa cells via the catechol-type outer membrane transporters PfeA and PirA and DOTAM solely via PirA. Differential proteomics and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) showed that MECAM import induced the expression of pfeA, whereas 3 led to an increase in the expression of pfeA and ampc, a gene conferring ampicillin resistance. The presence of DOTAM did not induce the expression of pirA but upregulated the expression of two zinc transporters (cntO and PA0781), pointing out that bacteria become zinc starved in the presence of this compound. Iron uptake experiments with radioactive (55)Fe demonstrated that import of this nutrient by MECAM and DOTAM was as efficient as with the natural siderophore enterobactin. The study provides a functional validation for DOTAM- and MECAM-based artificial siderophore mimetics as vehicles for the delivery of cargo into Gram-negative bacteria.
PXD027216	35500842	Stress Responses Elicited by Misfolded Proteins Targeted to Mitochondria. 	Distinct Stress Response to Mitochondrial Inter-membrane Space and Matrix Proteotoxic Stress are Preferentially Modulated by TOM complex and Vms1, respectively	Chaperones, Mitochondrial Unfolded Protein Response, Protein misfolding, Proteostasis, Proteotoxic stress, Ribosome Quality Control, Stress Response, Vms1	The double-membrane-bound architecture of mitochondria, essential for ATP production, sub-divides the organelle into inter-membrane space (IMS) and matrix. IMS and matrix possess contrasting oxido-reductive environments and discrete protein quality control (PQC) machineries resulting inherent differences in their protein folding environments. To understand the nature of stress response elicited by equivalent proteotoxic stress to these sub-mitochondrial compartments, we took misfolding and aggregation-prone stressor proteins and fused it to well described signal sequences to specifically target and impart stress to yeast mitochondrial IMS or matrix. We show, mitochondrial proteotoxicity leads to growth arrest of yeast cells of varying degrees depending on nature of stressor proteins and the intra-mitochondrial location of stress. Next, by employing transcriptomics and proteomics, we report a comprehensive stress response elicited by stressor proteins specifically targeted to mitochondrial matrix or IMS. A general response to proteotoxic stress by mitochondria-targeted misfolded proteins is mitochondrial fragmentation, and an adaptive abrogation of mitochondrial respiration with concomitant upregulation of glycolysis. Beyond shared stress responses, specific signatures due to stress within mitochondrial sub-compartments are also revealed. We report that stress-imparted by bipartite signal sequence-fused stressor proteins to IMS, leads to specific upregulation of IMS-chaperones and TOM complex components. In contrast, matrix-targeted stressors lead to specific upregulation of matrix-chaperones and cytosolic PQC components. Finally, by systematic genetic interaction using deletion strains of differentially upregulated genes, we found prominent modulatory role of TOM complex components during IMS-stress response. In contrast, VMS1 markedly modulates the stress response originated from matrix.
PXD026634	35500907	Identification of Antibiotic Resistance Proteins via MiCId's Augmented Workflow. A Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics Approach. 	Identification of antibiotic resistance proteins via MiCId's augmented workflow.   A mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach	Bacteria identification, Identification of antibiotic resistance proteins	Fast and accurate identifications of pathogenic bacteria along with their associated antibiotic resistance proteins are of paramount importance for patient treatments and public health. To meet this goal from the mass spectrometry aspect, we have augmented the previously published Microorganism Classification and Identification (MiCId) workflow for this capability. To evaluate the performance of this augmented workflow, we have used MS/MS datafiles from samples of 10 antibiotic resistance bacterial strains belonging to three different species: Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The evaluation shows that MiCId's workflow has a sensitivity value around 85% (with a lower bound at about 72%) and a precision greater than 95% in identifying antibiotic resistance proteins. In addition to having high sensitivity and precision, MiCId's workflow is fast and portable, making it a valuable tool for rapid identifications of bacteria as well as detection of their antibiotic resistance proteins. It performs microorganismal identifications, protein identifications, sample biomass estimates, and antibiotic resistance protein identifications in 6-17 min per MS/MS sample using computing resources that are available in most desktop and laptop computers. We have also demonstrated other use of MiCId's workflow. Using MS/MS data sets from samples of two bacterial clonal isolates, one being antibiotic-sensitive while the other being multidrug-resistant, we applied MiCId's workflow to investigate possible mechanisms of antibiotic resistance in these pathogenic bacteria; the results showed that MiCId's conclusions agree with the published study. The new version of MiCId (v.07.01.2021) is freely available for download at https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/CBBresearch/Yu/downloads.html.
PXD029133	35501693	Systematic evaluation and optimization of protein extraction parameters in diagnostic FFPE specimens. 	Systematic Evaluation and Optimization of Protein Extraction Parameters in Diagnostic FFPE Specimens	Protein extraction, antigen retrieval, biomarker, clinical prote-omics, crosslinking reversal, formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue, protein analysis	OBJECTIVES: Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue is the standard material for diagnostic pathology but poses relevant hurdles to accurate protein extraction due to cross-linking and chemical alterations. While numerous extraction protocols and chemicals have been described, systematic comparative analyses are limited. Various parameters were thus investigated in their qualitative and quantitative effects on protein extraction (PE) efficacy. Special emphasis was put on preservation of membrane proteins (MP) as key subgroup of functionally relevant proteins. METHODS: Using the example of urothelial carcinoma, FFPE tissue sections were subjected to various deparaffinization, protein extraction and antigen retrieval protocols and buffers as well as different extraction techniques. Performance was measured by protein concentration and western blot analysis of cellular compartment markers as well as liquid chromatography-coupled mass spectrometry (LC-MS). RESULTS: Commercially available extraction buffers showed reduced extraction of MPs and came at considerably increased costs. On-slide extraction did not improve PE whereas several other preanalytical steps could be simplified. Systematic variation of temperature and exposure duration demonstrated a quantitatively relevant corridor of optimal antigen retrieval. CONCLUSIONS: Preanalytical protein extraction can be optimized at various levels to improve unbiased protein extraction and to reduce time and costs.
PXD027990	35502205	Lipids associated with plant-bacteria interaction identified using a metabolomics approach in an Arabidopsis thaliana model. 	Lipids associated with plant systemic acquired resistance, identified by metabolomics approach in an Arabidopsis thaliana model	lipids, monogalactosyldiacylglycerol, phosphatidic acid, phosphatidylethanolamine, systemic acquired resistance, triacylglycerol	Background: Systemic acquired resistance (SAR) protects plants against a wide variety of pathogens. In recent decades, numerous studies have focused on the induction of SAR, but its molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown. Methods: We used a metabolomics approach based on ultra-high-performance liquid chromatographic (UPLC) and mass spectrometric (MS) techniques to identify SAR-related lipid metabolites in an Arabidopsis thaliana model. Multiple statistical analyses were used to identify the differentially regulated metabolites. Results: Numerous lipids were implicated as potential factors in both plant basal resistance and SAR; these include species of phosphatidic acid (PA), monogalactosyldiacylglycerol (MGDG), phosphatidylcholine (PC), phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), and triacylglycerol (TG). Conclusions: Our findings indicate that lipids accumulated in both local and systemic leaves, while other lipids only accumulated in local leaves or in systemic leaves. PA (16:0_18:2), PE (34:5) and PE (16:0_18:2) had higher levels in both local leaves inoculated with Psm ES4326 or Psm avrRpm1 and systemic leaves of the plants locally infected with Psm avrRpm1 or Psm ES4326. PC (32:5) had high levels in leaves inoculated with Psm ES4326. Other differentially regulated metabolites, including PA (18:2_18:2), PA (16:0_18:3), PA (18:3_18:2), PE (16:0_18:3), PE (16:1_16:1), PE (34:4) and TGs showed higher levels in systemic leaves of the plants locally infected with Psm avrRpm1 or Psm ES4326. These findings will help direct future studies on the molecular mechanisms of SAR.
PXD023909	35502767	Activated brown adipose tissue releases exosomes containing mitochondrial methylene tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (NADP dependent) 1-like protein (MTHFD1L). 	Exosomal Proteins and Brown Fat Activation	Biomarkers, Brown Fat, Exosomes	Brown adipose tissue (BAT) is a promising weapon to combat obesity and metabolic disease. BAT is thermogenic and consumes substantial amounts of glucose and fatty acids as fuel for thermogenesis and energy expenditure. To study BAT function in large human longitudinal cohorts, safe and precise detection methodologies are needed. Although regarded a gold standard, the foray of PET-CT into BAT research and clinical applications is limited by its high ionizing radiation doses. Here, we show that brown adipocytes release exosomes in blood plasma that can be utilized to assess BAT activity. In the present study, we investigated circulating protein biomarkers that can accurately and reliably reflect BAT activation triggered by cold exposure, capsinoids ingestion and thyroid hormone excess in humans. We discovered an exosomal protein, methylene tetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase (NADP+ dependent) 1-like (MTHFD1L), to be overexpressed and detectable in plasma for all three modes of BAT activation in human subjects. This mitochondrial protein is packaged as a cargo within multivesicular bodies of the endosomal compartment and secreted as exosomes via exocytosis from activated brown adipocytes into the circulation. To support MTHFD1L as a conserved BAT activation response in other vertebrates, we examined a rodent model and also proved its presence in blood of rats following BAT activation by cold exposure. Plasma concentration of exosomal MTHFD1L correlated with human BAT activity as confirmed by PET-MR in humans and supported by data from rats. Thus, we deduce that MTHFD1L appears to be overexpressed in activated BAT compared to BAT in the basal nonstimulated state.
PXD027096	35503090	Proteolysis of fibrillin-2 microfibrils is essential for normal skeletal development. 	Proteolysis of fibrillin-2 microfibrils is essential for normal skeletal development	ADAMTS6, HEK293T, extracellular matrix, fibrillin, fibronectin	The embryonic extracellular matrix (ECM) undergoes transition to mature ECM as development progresses, yet few mechanisms ensuring ECM proteostasis during this period are known. Fibrillin microfibrils are macromolecular ECM complexes serving structural and regulatory roles. In mice, Fbn1 and Fbn2, encoding the major microfibrillar components, are strongly expressed during embryogenesis, but fibrillin-1 is the major component observed in adult tissue microfibrils. Here, analysis of Adamts6 and Adamts10 mutant mouse embryos, lacking these homologous secreted metalloproteases individually and in combination, along with in vitro analysis of microfibrils, measurement of ADAMTS6-fibrillin affinities and N-terminomics discovery of ADAMTS6-cleaved sites, identifies a proteostatic mechanism contributing to postnatal fibrillin-2 reduction and fibrillin-1 dominance. The lack of ADAMTS6, alone and in combination with ADAMTS10 led to excess fibrillin-2 in perichondrium, with impaired skeletal development defined by a drastic reduction of aggrecan and cartilage link protein, impaired BMP signaling in cartilage, and increased GDF5 sequestration in fibrillin-2-rich tissue. Although ADAMTS6 cleaves fibrillin-1 and fibrillin-2 as well as fibronectin, which provides the initial scaffold for microfibril assembly, primacy of the protease-substrate relationship between ADAMTS6 and fibrillin-2 was unequivocally established by reversal of the defects in Adamts6(-/-) embryos by genetic reduction of Fbn2, but not Fbn1.
PXD018170	35503420	Bitter taste signaling in tracheal epithelial brush cells elicits innate immune responses to bacterial infection. 	Proteome and Secretome of Denatonium-treated Mouse Trachea Cells	Denatonium, LC-MS, Secretome, Trachea	Constant exposure of the airways to inhaled pathogens requires efficient early immune responses protecting against infections. How bacteria on the epithelial surface are detected and first-line protective mechanisms are initiated are not well understood. We have recently shown that tracheal brush cells (BCs) express functional taste receptors. Here we report that bitter taste signaling in murine BCs induces neurogenic inflammation. We demonstrate that BC signaling stimulates adjacent sensory nerve endings in the trachea to release the neuropeptides CGRP and substance P that mediate plasma extravasation, neutrophil recruitment, and diapedesis. Moreover, we show that bitter tasting quorum-sensing molecules from Pseudomonas aeruginosa activate tracheal BCs. BC signaling depends on the key taste transduction gene Trpm5, triggers secretion of immune mediators, among them the most abundant member of the complement system, and is needed to combat P. aeruginosa infections. Our data provide functional insight into first-line defense mechanisms against bacterial infections of the lung.
PXD024990	35506300	Taxonomical and functional changes in COVID-19 faecal microbiome could be related to SARS-CoV-2 faecal load. 	Metaproteomic profiling of the intestinal microbiota of SARS-CoV-2 infected patients	bioinformatics, biomass, metaproteomics, microbiota	Since the beginning of the pandemic caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) the gastrointestinal (GI) tract has emerged as an important organ influencing the propensity to and potentially the severity of the related COVID-19 disease. However, the contribution of the SARS-CoV-2 intestinal infection on COVID-19 pathogenesis remains to be clarified. In this exploratory study, we highlighted a possible link between alterations in the composition of the gut microbiota and the levels of SARS-CoV-2 RNA in the gastrointestinal tract, which could be more important than the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in the respiratory tract, COVID-19 severity and GI symptoms. As established by metaproteomics, altered molecular functions in the microbiota profiles of high SARS-CoV-2 RNA level faeces highlight mechanisms such as inflammation-induced enterocyte damage, increased intestinal permeability and activation of immune response that may contribute to vicious cycles. Uncovering the role of this gut microbiota dysbiosis could drive the investigation of alternative therapeutic strategies to favour the clearance of the virus and potentially mitigate the effect of the SARS-CoV-2 infection.
PXD030695	35506705	Ion-Based Proteome-Integrated Solubility Alteration Assays for Systemwide Profiling of Protein-Molecule Interactions. 	Ion-based Proteome Integrated Solubility Alteration Assay for System-wide Profiling of Protein-Molecule Interactions	Cancer, drug target deconvolution, mechanism of action, thermal protein profiling	Unbiased drug target engagement deconvolution and mechanism of action elucidation are major challenges in drug development. Modification-free target engagement methods, such as thermal proteome profiling, have gained increasing popularity in the last several years. However, these methods have limitations, and, in any case, new orthogonal approaches are needed. Here, we present a novel isothermal method for comprehensive characterization of protein solubility alterations using the effect on protein solubility of cations and anions in the Hofmeister series. We combine the ion-based protein precipitation approach with Proteome-Integrated Solubility Alteration (PISA) analysis and use this I-PISA assay to delineate the targets of several anticancer drugs both in cell lysates and intact cells. Finally, we demonstrate that I-PISA can detect solubility changes in minute amounts of sample, opening chemical proteomics applications to small and rare biological material.
PXD032852	35508142	Quality-controlled ceramide-based GPI-anchored protein sorting into selective ER exit sites. 	GPI glycan analysis of GPI-anchored protein from yeast	ER, GPI-anchored protein, QC, ceramide remodeling, glycan remodeling, protein sorting	Glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored proteins (GPI-APs) exit the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) through a specialized export pathway in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We have recently shown that a very-long acyl chain (C26) ceramide present in the ER membrane drives clustering and sorting of GPI-APs into selective ER exit sites (ERES). Now, we show that this lipid-based ER sorting also involves the C26 ceramide as a lipid moiety of GPI-APs, which is incorporated into the GPI anchor through a lipid-remodeling process after protein attachment in the ER. Moreover, we also show that a GPI-AP with a C26 ceramide moiety is monitored by the GPI-glycan remodelase Ted1, which, in turn, is required for receptor-mediated export of GPI-APs. Therefore, our study reveals a quality-control system that ensures lipid-based sorting of GPI-APs into selective ERESs for differential ER export, highlighting the physiological need for this specific export pathway.
PXD030111	35508267	Suppressors of amyloid-beta toxicity improve recombinant protein production in yeast by reducing oxidative stress and tuning cellular metabolism. 	Suppressors of amyloid-beta toxicity improve recombinant protein production by reducing oxidative stress and tunning cellular metabolism	Alzheimer's disease, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, TMTpro, amyloid-beta, tandem mass tag	High-level production of recombinant proteins in industrial microorganisms is often limited by the formation of misfolded proteins or protein aggregates, which consequently induce cellular stress responses. We hypothesized that in a yeast Alzheimer's disease (AD) model overexpression of amyloid-beta peptides (Abeta42), one of the main peptides relevant for AD pathologies, induces similar phenotypes of cellular stress. Using this humanized AD model, we previously identified suppressors of Abeta42 cytotoxicity. Here we hypothesize that these suppressors could be used as metabolic engineering targets to alleviate cellular stress and improve recombinant protein production in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Forty-six candidate genes were individually deleted and twenty were individually overexpressed. The positive targets that increased recombinant alpha-amylase production were further combined leading to an 18.7-fold increased recombinant protein production. These target genes are involved in multiple cellular networks including RNA processing, transcription, ER-mitochondrial complex, and protein unfolding. By using transcriptomics and proteomics analyses, combined with reverse metabolic engineering, we showed that reduced oxidative stress, increased membrane lipid biosynthesis and repressed arginine and sulfur amino acid biosynthesis are significant pathways for increased recombinant protein production. Our findings provide new insights towards developing synthetic yeast cell factories for biosynthesis of valuable proteins.
PXD025836	35508466	Integrative proteogenomic characterization of hepatocellular carcinoma across etiologies and stages. 	Phospho-proteomic characterization of human hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) tumor biopsies	Biopsies, Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), QExactive HF, phospho-proteomics	Proteogenomic analyses of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) have focused on early-stage, HBV-associated HCCs. Here we present an integrated proteogenomic analysis of HCCs across clinical stages and etiologies. Pathways related to cell cycle, transcriptional and translational control, signaling transduction, and metabolism are dysregulated and differentially regulated on the genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic and phosphoproteomic levels. We describe candidate copy number-driven driver genes involved in epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition, the Wnt-beta-catenin, AKT/mTOR and Notch pathways, cell cycle and DNA damage regulation. The targetable aurora kinase A and CDKs are upregulated. CTNNB1 and TP53 mutations are associated with altered protein phosphorylation related to actin filament organization and lipid metabolism, respectively. Integrative proteogenomic clusters show that HCC constitutes heterogeneous subgroups with distinct regulation of biological processes, metabolic reprogramming and kinase activation. Our study provides a comprehensive overview of the proteomic and phophoproteomic landscapes of HCCs, revealing the major pathways altered in the (phospho)proteome.
PXD032663	35508541	The dopamine transporter antiports potassium to increase the uptake of dopamine. 	The dopamine transporter antiports potassium to increase the uptake of dopamine	Hydrogen-deuterium exchange, MS, Mass spectroemetry, Membrane proteins, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), Transporter	The dopamine transporter facilitates dopamine reuptake from the extracellular space to terminate neurotransmission. The transporter belongs to the neurotransmitter:sodium symporter family, which includes transporters for serotonin, norepinephrine, and GABA that utilize the Na(+) gradient to drive the uptake of substrate. Decades ago, it was shown that the serotonin transporter also antiports K(+), but investigations of K(+)-coupled transport in other neurotransmitter:sodium symporters have been inconclusive. Here, we show that ligand binding to the Drosophila- and human dopamine transporters are inhibited by K(+), and the conformational dynamics of the Drosophila dopamine transporter in K(+) are divergent from the apo- and Na(+)-states. Furthermore, we find that K(+) increases dopamine uptake by the Drosophila dopamine transporter in liposomes, and visualize Na(+) and K(+) fluxes in single proteoliposomes using fluorescent ion indicators. Our results expand on the fundamentals of dopamine transport and prompt a reevaluation of the impact of K(+) on other transporters in this pharmacologically important family.
PXD028947	35509884	Isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantitation Identification of Blood Proteins Relevant to Paroxetine Response in Patients With Major Depressive Disorder. 	iTRAQ paroxetine response in major depressive disorder	MDD, PBMC, iTRAQ, paroxetine	Objectives: Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) is a proteomic investigation that could be utilized for rapid identification and quantification of proteins, which we would use to identify differentially expressed proteins in treatment responsive patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). Methods: Six treatment responsive patients of MDD were recruited, and their peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) were collected before and after 4 weeks of paroxetine treatment. iTRAQ and Mascot search engine were used to detect differentially expressed proteins, which were then validated by Western blot. Results: Two thousand one hundred and fifty three proteins were screened, and seven proteins showed differences of more than two-fold and 62 proteins with a differences of less than two-fold. Six proteins with commercially available antibodies were identified, and were validated by Western blot in 10 paroxetine responsive MDD patients. Putative hydroxypyruvate isomerase (HYI), eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4H (eIF4H), and RNA binding motif 8A (RBM8A) had statistically significant differences before and after treatment in the validation. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD028947. Conclusions: By using iTRAQ and Western blot, we were able to identify HYI, eIF4H, and RAM8a to be the potential predictors of paroxetine treatment response in patients with MDD. This finding could help establish future individualized medicine.
PXD032265	35510806	Broad-range metalloprotease profiling in plants uncovers immunity provided by defence-related metalloenzyme. 	Broad-range metalloprotease profiling in plants uncovers immunity provided by defence-related metalloenzyme	PRp27, immunity, metalloproteases, photoaffinity labelling	Plants encode > 100 metalloproteases representing > 19 different protein families. Tools to study this large and diverse class of proteases have not yet been introduced into plant research. We describe the use of hydroxamate-based photoaffinity probes to explore plant proteomes for metalloproteases. We detected labelling of 23 metalloproteases in leaf extracts of the model plant Arabidopsis thaliana that belong to nine different metalloprotease families and localize to different subcellular compartments. The probes identified several chloroplastic FtsH proteases, vacuolar aspartyl aminopeptidase DAP1, peroxisomal metalloprotease PMX16, extracellular matrix metalloproteases and many cytosolic metalloproteases. We also identified nonproteolytic metallohydrolases involved in the release of auxin and in the urea cycle. Studies on tobacco plants (Nicotiana benthamiana) infected with the bacterial plant pathogen Pseudomonas syringae uncovered the induced labelling of PRp27, a secreted protein with implicated metalloprotease activity. PRp27 overexpression increases resistance, and PRp27 mutants lacking metal binding site are no longer labelled, but still show increased immunity. Collectively, these studies reveal the power of broad-range metalloprotease profiling in plants using hydroxamate-based probes.
PXD032736	35512017	Application of two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis to identify protein changes between center, margin, and adjacent non-tumor tissues obtained from non-small-cell lung cancer with adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma subtype. 	Application of Two-Dimensional Difference Gel Electrophoresis to Identify Protein Changes between Center, Margin, and Adjacent Non-Tumor Tissues Obtained from Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer with Adenocarcinoma Subtype	2D-DIGE, adenocarcinoma, cancer, lung tissue	Lung cancer is responsible for the most cancer-related mortality worldwide and the mechanism of its development is poorly understood. Proteomics has become a powerful tool offering vital knowledge related to cancer development. Using a two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) approach, we sought to compare tissue samples from non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients taken from the tumor center and tumor margin. Two subtypes of NSCLC, adenocarcinoma (ADC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) were compared. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD032736 and PXD032962 for ADC and SCC, respectively. For ADC proteins, 26 significant canonical pathways were identified, including Rho signaling pathways, a semaphorin neuronal repulsive signaling pathway, and epithelial adherens junction signaling. For SCC proteins, nine significant canonical pathways were identified, including hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha signaling, thyroid hormone biosynthesis, and phagosome maturation. Proteins differentiating the tumor center and tumor margin were linked to cancer invasion and progression, including cell migration, adhesion and invasion, cytoskeletal structure, protein folding, anaerobic metabolism, tumor angiogenesis, EMC transition, epithelial adherens junctions, and inflammatory responses. In conclusion, we identified several proteins that are important for the better characterization of tumor development and molecular specificity of both lung cancer subtypes. We also identified proteins that may be important as biomarkers and/or targets for anticancer therapy.
PXD030527	35512098	MITF deficiency accelerates GNAQ-driven uveal melanoma. 	MITF deficiency accelerates GNAQ-driven uveal melanoma	Zebrafish, mitf, phospho, uveal melanoma	Cutaneous melanoma (CM) and uveal melanoma (UM) both originate from the melanocytic lineage but are primarily driven by distinct oncogenic drivers, BRAF/NRAS or GNAQ/GNA11, respectively. The melanocytic master transcriptional regulator, MITF, is essential for both CM development and maintenance, but its role in UM is largely unexplored. Here, we use zebrafish models to dissect the key UM oncogenic signaling events and establish the role of MITF in UM tumors. Using a melanocytic lineage expression system, we showed that patient-derived mutations of GNAQ (GNAQQ209L) or its upstream CYSLTR2 receptor (CYSLTR2L129Q) both drive UM when combined with a cooperating mutation, tp53M214K/M214K. The tumor-initiating potential of the major GNAQ/11 effector pathways, YAP, and phospholipase C-beta (PLCbeta)-ERK was also investigated in this system and thus showed that while activated YAP (YAPAA) induced UM with high potency, the patient-derived PLCbeta4 mutation (PLCB4D630Y) very rarely yielded UM tumors in the tp53M214K/M214K context. Remarkably, mitfa deficiency was profoundly UM promoting, dramatically accelerating the onset and progression of tumors induced by Tg(mitfa:GNAQQ209L);tp53M214K/M214K or Tg(mitfa:CYSLTR2L129Q);tp53M214K/M214K. Moreover, mitfa loss was sufficient to cooperate with GNAQQ209L to drive tp53-wild type UM development and allowed Tg(mitfa:PLCB4D630Y);tp53M214K/M214K melanocyte lineage cells to readily form tumors. Notably, all of the mitfa-/- UM tumors, including those arising in Tg(mitfa:PLCB4D630Y);tp53M214K/M214K;mitfa-/- zebrafish, displayed nuclear YAP while lacking hyperactive ERK indicative of PLCbeta signaling. Collectively, these data show that YAP signaling is the major mediator of UM and that MITF acts as a bona fide tumor suppressor in UM in direct opposition to its essential role in CM.
PXD033370	35512211	A coiled-coil protein associates Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 with KNOX/BELL transcription factors to maintain silencing of cell differentiation-promoting genes in the shoot apex. 	Rice OsFIE2-FLAG IP-MS analysis	FIE2, PRC2, Rice, SAM	Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2), which mediates the deposition of H3K27me3 histone marks, is important for developmental decisions in animals and plants. In the shoot apical meristem (SAM), Three Amino acid Loop Extension family KNOTTED-LIKE HOMEOBOX /BEL-like (KNOX/BELL) transcription factors are key regulators of meristem cell pluripotency and differentiation. Here, we identified a PRC2-associated coiled-coil protein (PACP) that interacts with KNOX/BELL transcription factors in rice (Oryza sativa) shoot apex cells. A loss-of-function mutation of PACP resulted in differential gene expression similar to that observed in PRC2 gene knockdown plants, reduced H3K27me3 levels, and reduced genome-wide binding of the PRC2 core component EMF2b. The genomic binding of PACP displayed a similar distribution pattern to EMF2b, and genomic regions with high PACP- and EMF2b-binding signals were marked by high levels of H3K27me3. We show that PACP is required for the repression of cell differentiation-promoting genes targeted by a rice KNOX1 protein in the SAM. PACP is involved in the recruitment or stabilization of PRC2 to genes targeted by KNOX/BELL transcription factors to maintain H3K27me3 and gene repression in dividing cells of the shoot apex. Our results provide insight into PRC2-mediated maintenance of H3K27me3 and the mechanism by which KNOX/BELL proteins regulate SAM development.
PXD031504	35512695	The receptor kinase OsWAK11 monitors cell wall pectin changes to fine-tune brassinosteroid signaling and regulate cell elongation in rice. 	Crosstalk between cell wall-sensing and hormone-sensing receptor kinases regulates plant cell elongation	BRI, Brassinosteroid signaling, Cell elongation, Cell wall, Light, Receptor kinase, Rice	Rates of plant cell elongation change with day-night alternation, reflecting differences in metabolism related to cell wall remodeling. Information from cell wall surveillance pathways must be integrated with growth regulation pathways to provide feedback regulation of cell wall modification; such feedback regulation is important to ensure sufficient strength and prevent rupture of the cell wall during growth. Several lines of evidence suggest that cell wall perturbations often influence phytohormone signaling, but the identity of the nexus between these two processes remained elusive. Here, we show that wall-associated kinase11 (OsWAK11) acts as a linker connecting cell wall pectin methyl-esterification changes and brassinosteroid (BR) signaling in rice. Our data show that OsWAK11 controls several important agronomical traits by regulating cell elongation in rice. OsWAK11 directly binds and phosphorylates the BR receptor OsBRI1 at residue Thr752, within a motif conserved across most monocot graminaceous crops, thus hindering OsBRI1 interaction with its co-receptor OsSERK1/OsBAK1 and inhibiting BR signaling. The extracellular domain of OsWAK11 shows a much stronger interaction toward methyl-esterified pectin as compared with de-methyl-esterified pectin. OsWAK11 is stabilized in light but is degraded in darkness, in a process triggered by changes in the ratio of methyl-esterified to de-methyl-esterified pectin, creating fluctuations in plant BR signaling in response to day and night alternation. We conclude that OsWAK11 is a cell wall monitor that regulates cell elongation rates to adapt to the environment from the outside in, which complements the well-established inside-out signaling pathway affecting cell elongation in plants.
PXD024487	35513387	SPIN enables high throughput species identification of archaeological bone by proteomics. 	SPIN - Species by Proteome INvestigation	DDA, DIA, Evosep, Orbitrap Exploris 480, Palaeoproteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, Species identification	Species determination based on genetic evidence is an indispensable tool in archaeology, forensics, ecology, and food authentication. Most available analytical approaches involve compromises with regard to the number of detectable species, high cost due to low throughput, or a labor-intensive manual process. Here, we introduce "Species by Proteome INvestigation" (SPIN), a shotgun proteomics workflow for analyzing archaeological bone capable of querying over 150 mammalian species by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Rapid peptide chromatography and data-independent acquisition (DIA) with throughput of 200 samples per day reduce expensive MS time, whereas streamlined sample preparation and automated data interpretation save labor costs. We confirm the successful classification of known reference bones, including domestic species and great apes, beyond the taxonomic resolution of the conventional peptide mass fingerprinting (PMF)-based Zooarchaeology by Mass Spectrometry (ZooMS) method. In a blinded study of degraded Iron-Age material from Scandinavia, SPIN produces reproducible results between replicates, which are consistent with morphological analysis. Finally, we demonstrate the high throughput capabilities of the method in a high-degradation context by analyzing more than two hundred Middle and Upper Palaeolithic bones from Southern European sites with late Neanderthal occupation. While this initial study is focused on modern and archaeological mammalian bone, SPIN will be open and expandable to other biological tissues and taxa.
PXD029473	35514441	Correlation Between Plasma Proteomics and Adverse Outcomes Among Older Men With Chronic Coronary Syndrome. 	Role of plasma proteomics in predicting the prognosis of older men with chronic coronary syndrome	plasma	Background: Chronic coronary syndrome (CCS) is a newly proposed concept and is hallmarked by more long-term major adverse cardiovascular events (MACEs), calling for accurate prognostic biomarkers for initial risk stratification. Methods: Data-independent acquisition liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (DIA LC-MS/MS) quantitative proteomics was performed on 38 patients with CCS; 19 in the CCS events group and 19 in the non-events group as the controls. We also developed a machine-learning-based pipeline to identify proteins as potential biomarkers and validated the target proteins by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in an independent prospective cohort. Results: Fifty-seven differentially expressed proteins were identified by quantitative proteomics and three final biomarkers were preliminarily selected from the machine-learning-based pipeline. Further validation with the prospective cohort showed that endothelial protein C receptor (EPCR) and cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) levels at admission were significantly higher in the CCS events group than they were in the non-events group, whereas the carboxypeptidase B2 (CPB2) level was similar in the two groups. In the Cox survival analysis, EPCR and CETP were independent risk factors for MACEs. We constructed a new prognostic model by combining the Framingham coronary heart disease (CHD) risk model with EPCR and CETP levels. This new model significantly improved the C-statistics for MACE prediction compared with that of the Framingham CHD risk model alone. Conclusion: Plasma proteomics was used to find biomarkers of predicting MACEs in patients with CCS. EPCR and CETP were identified as promising prognostic biomarkers for CCS.
PXD031498	35514972	Serum Antigenome Profiling Reveals Diagnostic Models for Rheumatoid Arthritis. 	Serum antigenome profiling reveals diagnostic models for rheumatoid arthritis	Rheumatoid arthritis, antigenome, biomarkers, mass-spectrometry	Objective: The study aimed to investigate the serum antigenomic profiling in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and determine potential diagnostic biomarkers using label-free proteomic technology implemented with machine-learning algorithm. Method: Serum antigens were captured from a cohort consisting of 60 RA patients (45 ACPA-positive RA patients and 15 ACPA-negative RA patients), together with sex- and age-matched 30 osteoarthritis (OA) patients and 30 healthy controls. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was then performed. The significantly upregulated and downregulated proteins with fold change > 1.5 (p < 0.05) were selected. Based on these differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), a machine learning model was trained and validated to classify RA, ACPA-positive RA, and ACPA-negative RA. Results: We identified 62, 71, and 49 DEPs in RA, ACPA-positive RA, and ACPA-negative RA, respectively, as compared to OA and healthy controls. Typical pathway enrichment and protein-protein interaction networks were shown among these DEPs. Three panels were constructed to classify RA, ACPA-positive RA, and ACPA-negative RA using random forest models algorithm based on the molecular signature of DEPs, whose area under curve (AUC) were calculated as 0.9949 (95% CI = 0.9792-1), 0.9913 (95% CI = 0.9653-1), and 1.0 (95% CI = 1-1). Conclusion: This study illustrated the serum auto-antigen profiling of RA. Among them, three panels of antigens were identified as diagnostic biomarkers to classify RA, ACPA-positive, and ACPA-negative RA patients.
PXD032342	35515130	A Nicotinamide Phosphoribosyltransferase Inhibitor, FK866, Suppresses the Growth of Anaplastic Meningiomas and Inhibits Immune Checkpoint Expression by Regulating STAT1. 	Proteomics data of WHO I and WHO III meningiomas	anaplastic meningiomas, endothelial meningiomas, fibrous meningiomas	Anaplastic meningioma is classified as a World Health Organization (WHO) grade III tumor and shows a strong tendency to recur. Although the incidence of anaplastic meningioma is low, the high rate of recurrence and death still makes treatment a challenge. A proteomics analysis was performed to investigate the differentially expressed proteins between anaplastic meningiomas and fibrous meningiomas by micro-LC-MS/MS. The key metabolic enzyme nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) showed upregulated expression in anaplastic meningiomas. However, targeting NAMPT to treat anaplastic meningiomas has not been reported. In vitro, NAMPT inhibitor -FK866 reduced the viability of anaplastic meningiomas by inducing cell cycle arrest at the G2/M phase. Intriguingly, the NAMPT inhibitor -FK866 decreased the protein expression of immune checkpoints PD-L1 and B7-H3 by down-regulating the STAT1 and p-STAT1 expression in vitro. Furthermore, FK866 suppressed the growth of anaplastic meningiomas in an in vivo xenograft model. The expression of Ki-67 and immune checkpoint proteins (PD-L1 and B7-H3) showed significant differences between the group treated with FK866 and the control group treated with DMSO. In conclusion, the expression of NAMPT, which plays a crucial role in energy metabolism, was upregulated in anaplastic meningiomas. The NAMPT inhibitor -FK866 significantly suppressed the growth of anaplastic meningiomas in vitro and in vivo. More strikingly, FK866 potently inhibited immune checkpoint protein (PD-L1 and B7-H3) expression by regulating STAT1 in vitro and in vivo. Our results demonstrated that NAMPT inhibitors could potentially be an effective treatment method for patients suffering from anaplastic meningiomas.
PXD019782	35516420	Interactome and Ubiquitinome Analyses Identify Functional Targets of Herpes Simplex Virus 1 Infected Cell Protein 0. 	HSV1 ICP0 associated ubiquitination modulation in N2A neuron cells	HSV1, ICP0, N2A, ubiquitination	Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) can productively infect multiple cell types and establish latent infection in neurons. Infected cell protein 0 (ICP0) is an HSV-1 E3 ubiquitin ligase crucial for productive infection and reactivation from latency. However, our knowledge about its targets especially in neuronal cells is limited. We confirmed that, like in non-neuronal cells, ICP0-null virus exhibited major replication defects in primary mouse neurons and Neuro-2a cells. We identified many ICP0-interacting proteins in Neuro-2a cells, 293T cells, and human foreskin fibroblasts by mass spectrometry-based interactome analysis. Co-immunoprecipitation assays validated ICP0 interactions with acyl-coenzyme A thioesterase 8 (ACOT8), complement C1q binding protein (C1QBP), ovarian tumour domain-containing protein 4 (OTUD4), sorting nexin 9 (SNX9), and vimentin (VIM) in both Neuro-2a and 293T cells. Overexpression and knockdown experiments showed that SNX9 restricted replication of an ICP0-null but not wild-type virus in Neuro-2a cells. Ubiquitinome analysis by immunoprecipitating the trypsin-digested ubiquitin reminant followed by mass spectrometry identified numerous candidate ubiquitination substrates of ICP0 in infected Neuro-2a cells, among which OTUD4 and VIM were novel substrates confirmed to be ubiquitinated by transfected ICP0 in Neuro-2a cells despite no evidence of their degradation by ICP0. Expression of OTUD4 was induced independently of ICP0 during HSV-1 infection. Overexpressed OTUD4 enhanced type I interferon expression during infection with the ICP0-null but not wild-type virus. In summary, by combining two proteomic approaches followed by confirmatory and functional experiments, we identified and validated multiple novel targets of ICP0 and revealed potential restrictive activities of SNX9 and OTUD4 in neuronal cells.
PXD030823	35517865	The Okur-Chung Neurodevelopmental Syndrome Mutation CK2(K198R) Leads to a Rewiring of Kinase Specificity. 	The Okur-Chung Neurodevelopmental Syndrome (OCNDS) mutation CK2K198R leads to a rewiring of kinase specificity	CK2, CKII, Okur-Chung, ProPeL, kinase, mutation, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation	Okur-Chung Neurodevelopmental Syndrome (OCNDS) is caused by heterozygous mutations to the CSNK2A1 gene, which encodes the alpha subunit of protein kinase CK2. The most frequently occurring mutation is lysine 198 to arginine (K198R). To investigate the impact of this mutation, we first generated a high-resolution phosphorylation motif of CK2(WT), including the first characterization of specificity for tyrosine phosphorylation activity. A second high resolution motif representing CK2(K198R) substrate specificity was also generated. Here we report the impact of the OCNDS associated CK2(K198R) mutation. Contrary to prior speculation, the mutation does not result in a complete loss of function, but rather shifts the substrate specificity of the kinase. Broadly speaking the mutation leads to 1) a decreased preference for acidic residues in the +1 position, 2) a decreased preference for threonine phosphorylation, 3) an increased preference for tyrosine phosphorylation, and 4) an alteration of the tyrosine phosphorylation specificity motif. To further investigate the result of this mutation we have developed a probability-based scoring method, allowing us to predict shifts in phosphorylation in the K198R mutant relative to the wild type kinase. As an initial step we have applied the methodology to the set of axonally localized ion channels in an effort to uncover potential alterations of the phosphoproteome associated with the OCNDS disease condition.
PXD029645	35522782	Chemical Proteomics of the Tumor Suppressor Fhit Covalently Bound to the Cofactor Ap3A Elucidates Its Inhibitory Action on Translation. 	The tumor suppressor Fhit in complex with the alarmone Ap3A binds to the ribosome and impedes translation	AP-MS, Ap3A, Fhit, XL-MS, ribosome, translation	The tumor suppressor protein fragile histidine triad (Fhit) is known to be associated with genomic instability and apoptosis. The tumor-suppressive function of Fhit depends on the interaction with the alarmone diadenosine triphosphate (Ap3A), a noncanonical nucleotide whose concentration increases upon cellular stress. How the Fhit-Ap3A complex exerts its signaling function is unknown. Here, guided by a chemical proteomics approach employing a synthetic stable Fhit-Ap3A complex, we found that the Fhit-Ap3A complex, but not Fhit or Ap3A alone, impedes translation. Our findings provide a mechanistic model in which Fhit translocates from the nucleolus into the cytosol upon stress to form an Fhit-Ap3A complex. The Fhit-Ap3A complex impedes translation both in vitro and in vivo, resulting in reduced cell viability. Overall, our findings provide a mechanistic model by which the tumor suppressor Fhit collaborates with the alarmone Ap3A to regulate cellular proliferation.
PXD032698	35522919	Single-Shot 10K Proteome Approach: Over 10,000 Protein Identifications by Data-Independent Acquisition-Based Single-Shot Proteomics with Ion Mobility Spectrometry. 	Deep proteome analysis by DIA-MS	DIA-MS, HEK293 cell, feces, repeated social defeat stress, single-shot proteomics	The evolution of mass spectrometry (MS) and analytical techniques has led to the demand for proteome analysis with high proteome coverage in single-shot measurements. Focus has been placed on data-independent acquisition (DIA)-MS and ion mobility spectrometry as techniques for deep proteome analysis. We aimed to expand the proteome coverage by single-shot measurements using optimizing high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry parameters in DIA-MS. With our established proteome analysis system, more than 10,000 protein groups were identified from HEK293 cell digests within 120 min of MS measurement time. Additionally, we applied our approach to the analysis of host proteins in mouse feces and detected as many as 892 host protein groups (771 upregulated/121 downregulated proteins) in a mouse model of repeated social defeat stress (R-SDS) used in studying depression. Interestingly, 285 proteins elevated by R-SDS were related to mental disorders. The fecal host protein profiling by deep proteome analysis may help us understand mental illness pathologies noninvasively. Thus, our approach will be helpful for an in-depth comparison of protein expression levels for biological and medical research because it enables the analysis of highly proteome coverage in a single-shot measurement.
PXD028532	35523140	Human branching cholangiocyte organoids recapitulate functional bile duct formation. 	Proteome of human branching and non-branching cholangiocyte organoids	Cholangiocyte organoids, branching morphogenesis, cholangiocarcinoma, cholangiocytes, disease modelling, embryonic development, intrahepatic bile duct	Human cholangiocyte organoids show great promise for regenerative therapies and in vitro modeling of bile duct development and diseases. However, the cystic organoids lack the branching morphology of intrahepatic bile ducts (IHBDs). Here, we report establishing human branching cholangiocyte organoid (BRCO) cultures. BRCOs self-organize into complex tubular structures resembling the IHBD architecture. Single-cell transcriptomics and functional analysis showed high similarity to primary cholangiocytes, and importantly, the branching growth mimics aspects of tubular development and is dependent on JAG1/NOTCH2 signaling. When applied to cholangiocarcinoma tumor organoids, the morphology changes to an in vitro morphology like primary tumors. Moreover, these branching cholangiocarcinoma organoids (BRCCAOs) better match the transcriptomic profile of primary tumors and showed increased chemoresistance to gemcitabine and cisplatin. In conclusion, BRCOs recapitulate a complex process of branching morphogenesis in vitro. This provides an improved model to study tubular formation, bile duct functionality, and associated biliary diseases.
PXD025933	35523177	Differentiation of brain and retinal organoids from confluent cultures of pluripotent stem cells connected by nerve-like axonal projections of optic origin. 	Proteomics characterisation of induced pluripotent stem cells and cortical brain organoids.	Organoid, brain, cortical, neural retina, pluripotent, stem cell	Advances in the study of neurological conditions have been possible because of pluripotent stem cell technologies and organoids. Studies have described the generation of neural ectoderm-derived retinal and brain structures from pluripotent stem cells. However, the field is still troubled by technical challenges, including high culture costs and variability. Here, we describe a simple and economical protocol that reproducibly gives rise to the neural retina and cortical brain regions from confluent cultures of stem cells. The spontaneously generated cortical organoids are transcriptionally comparable with organoids generated by other methods. Furthermore, these organoids showed spontaneous functional network activity and proteomic analysis confirmed organoids maturity. The generation of retinal and brain organoids in close proximity enabled their mutual isolation. Suspension culture of this complex organoid system demonstrated the formation of nerve-like structures connecting retinal and brain organoids, which might facilitate the investigation of neurological diseases of the eye and brain.
PXD030651	35523582	Inhibition of Crmp1 Phosphorylation at Ser522 Ameliorates Motor Function and Neuronal Pathology in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Model Mice. 	 MS analysis of phosphopeptides enriched from the lumbar spinal cord of SOD1G93A mice at 20weeks.	SOD1G93A. phosphopeptide	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rapidly progressive and fatal neurodegenerative disorder that affects upper and lower motor neurons; however, its pathomechanism has not been fully elucidated. Using a comprehensive phosphoproteomic approach, we have identified elevated phosphorylation of Collapsin response mediator protein 1 (Crmp1) at serine 522 in the lumbar spinal cord of ALS model mice overexpressing a human superoxide dismutase mutant (SOD1(G93A)). We investigated the effects of Crmp1 phosphorylation and depletion in SOD1(G93A) mice using Crmp1(S522A) (Ser522-->Ala) knock-in (Crmp1(k)(i)(/ki) ) mice in which the S522 phosphorylation site was abolished and Crmp1 knock-out (Crmp1(-/-)) mice, respectively. Crmp1(ki)(/)(ki) /SOD1(G93A) mice showed longer latency to fall in a rotarod test while Crmp1(-/-)/SOD1(G93A) mice showed shorter latency compared with SOD1(G93A) mice. Survival was prolonged in Crmp1(ki)(/)(ki) /SOD1(G93A) mice but not in Crmp1(-/-)/SOD1(G93A) mice. In agreement with these phenotypic findings, residual motor neurons and innervated neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) were comparatively well-preserved in Crmp1(ki)(/)(ki) /SOD1(G93A) mice without affecting microglial and astroglial pathology. Pathway analysis of proteome alterations showed that the sirtuin signaling pathway had opposite effects in Crmp1(ki)(/)(ki) /SOD1(G93A) and Crmp1(-/-)/SOD1(G93A) mice. Our study indicates that modifying CRMP1 phosphorylation is a potential therapeutic strategy for ALS.
PXD032661	35523862	The MFN1 and MFN2 mitofusins promote clustering between mitochondria and peroxisomes. 	Proximity tagging identified mitofusins stimulating mitochondria and peroxisomes clustering	MFNs, Mitochondria, peroxisomes	Mitochondria and peroxisomes are two types of functionally close-related organelles, and both play essential roles in lipid and ROS metabolism. However, how they physically interact with each other is not well understood. In this study, we apply the proximity labeling method with peroxisomal proteins and report that mitochondrial protein mitofusins (MFNs) are in proximity to peroxisomes. Overexpression of MFNs induces not only the mitochondria clustering but also the co-clustering of peroxisomes. We also report the enrichment of MFNs at the mitochondria-peroxisome interface. Induced mitofusin expression gives rise to more mitochondria-peroxisome contacting sites. Furthermore, the tethering of peroxisomes to mitochondria can be inhibited by the expression of a truncated MFN2, which lacks the transmembrane region. Collectively, our study suggests MFNs as regulators for mitochondria-peroxisome contacts. Our findings are essential for future studies of inter-organelle metabolism regulation and signaling, and may help understand the pathogenesis of mitofusin dysfunction-related disease.
PXD028641	35523980	Cytochrome P450 2E1 predicts liver functional recovery from donation after circulatory death using air-ventilated normothermic machine perfusion. 	RAT liver OXYGEN-VENTILATED NMP LC-MS/MS	RAT LIVER NMP PROTEOMICS DCD	The optimal oxygen concentration is unclear for normothermic machine perfusion (NMP) of livers from donation after circulatory death (DCD). Our purposes were to investigate the effect of air-ventilated NMP on the DCD liver, analyze the underlying mechanism and select the targets to predict liver functional recovery with NMP. NMP was performed using the NMP system with either air ventilation or oxygen ventilation for 2 h in the rat liver following warm ischemia and cold-storage preservation. Proteomics and metabolomics were used to reveal the significant molecular networks. The bioinformation analysis was validated by administering peroxisome proliferator activator receptor-gamma (PPARgamma) antagonist and agonist via perfusion circuit in the air-ventilated NMP. Results showed that air-ventilated NMP conferred a better functional recovery and a less inflammatory response in the rat DCD liver; integrated proteomics and metabolomics analysis indicated that intrahepatic docosapentaenoic acid downregulation and upregulation of cytochrome P450 2E1 (CYP2E1) expression and activity were associated with DCD liver functional recovery with air-ventilated NMP; PPARgamma antagonist worsened liver function under air-oxygenated NMP whereas PPARgamma agonist played the opposite role. In conclusion, air-ventilated NMP confers a better liver function from DCD rats through the DAP-PPARgamma-CYP2E1 axis; CYP2E1 activity provides a biomarker of liver functional recovery from DCD.
PXD026663	35524265	Quantitative proteomic analysis of cerebrospinal fluid reveals CD163, A2M and full-length APP as potential diagnostic biomarkers of paediatric bacterial meningitis. 	CSF quantitative proteomics reveals potential diagnostic biomarker of pediatric bacterial meningitis	CSF, bacterial meningitis, diagnostic biomarker	BACKGROUND: Bacterial meningitis (BM) is a life-threatening infectious disease of the central nervous system in infants and children. To date, no diagnostic methods for the early and precise diagnosis of paediatric BM have been developed. METHODS: A label-free cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) quantitative proteomic analysis of 8 patients with confirmed or suspected BM, 9 patients with confirmed or suspected viral meningitis (VM) and 6 non-CNS-infected hospital patients was performed via high-resolution LC-MS/MS. RESULTS: Our CSF proteomic analysis allowed the identification of critical differences between the BM and non-BM groups. Compared to the proteomes of the non-BM groups, the proteome of the paediatric BM group was characterized by upregulation of complement and coagulation cascades, regulation of IGF transport, uptake by IGF-binding proteins and acute inflammatory response, downregulation of developmental growth, and metabolism of carbohydrates. Moreover, the levels of CD163, A2M and full-length APP in CSF showed excellent diagnostic performance for paediatric BM, with AUC values of 0.911 (95% CI: 0.839-0.984), 0.908 (95% CI: 0.816-1.000) and 0.944 (95% CI: 0.86, 1.000), respectively. Among them, A2M and full-length APP are reported here for the first time as potential diagnostic biomarkers of BM. The findings imply that peptidase regulator activity plays an important role in BM and provide potential novel targets for precision medicine in paediatric BM. CONCLUSIONS: CD163, A2M and full-length APP are validated as potential diagnostic biomarkers of paediatric BM.
PXD033930	35524408	KLF16 enhances stress tolerance of colorectal carcinomas by modulating nucleolar homeostasis and translational reprogramming. 	KLF16 enhances stress tolerance of colorectal carcinomas by modulating nucleolar homeostasis and translational reprogramming	ER stress, carcinogenesis, nucleolar homeostasis, stress tolerance, translational reprogramming	Translational reprogramming is part of the unfolded protein response (UPR) during endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, which acts to the advantage of cancer growth and development in different stress conditions, but the mechanism of ER stress-related translational reprogramming in colorectal carcinoma (CRC) progression remains unclear. Here, we identified that Kruppel-like factor 16 (KLF16) can promote CRC progression and stress tolerance through translational reprogramming. The expression of KLF16 was upregulated in CRC tissues and associated with poor prognosis for CRC patients. We found that ER stress inducers can recruit KLF16 to the nucleolus and increase its interaction with two essential proteins for nucleolar homeostasis: nucleophosmin1 (NPM1) and fibrillarin (FBL). Moreover, knockdown of KLF16 can dysregulate nucleolar homeostasis in CRC cells. Translation-reporter system and polysome profiling assays further showed that KLF16 can effectively promote cap-independent translation of ATF4, which can enhance ER-phagy and the proliferation of CRC cells. Overall, our study unveils a previously unrecognized role for KLF16 as an ER stress regulator through mediating translational reprogramming to enhance the stress tolerance of CRC cells and provides a potential therapeutic vulnerability.
PXD026863	35524458	Tetraspanins distinguish separate extracellular vesicle subpopulations in human serum and plasma - Contributions of platelet extracellular vesicles in plasma samples. 	Analysis of tetraspanin distribution on plasma and serum extracellular vesicles indicates that separate subpopulations carries CD9, CD63 and CD81	Plasma, biomarkers, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, microvesicles, serum, subpopulations	BACKGROUND: The ability to isolate extracellular vesicles (EVs) from blood is vital in the development of EVs as disease biomarkers. Both serum and plasma can be used, but few studies have compared these sources in terms of the type of EVs that are obtained. The aim of this study was to determine the presence of different subpopulations of EVs in plasma and serum. METHOD: Blood was collected from healthy subjects, and plasma and serum were isolated in parallel. ACD or EDTA tubes were used for the collection of plasma, while serum was obtained in clot activator tubes. EVs were isolated utilising a combination of density cushion and SEC, a combination of density cushion and gradient or by a bead antibody capturing system (anti-CD63, anti-CD9 and anti-CD81 beads). The subpopulations of EVs were analysed by NTA, Western blot, SP-IRIS, conventional and nano flow cytometry, magnetic bead ELISA and mass spectrometry. Additionally, different isolation protocols for plasma were compared to determine the contribution of residual platelets in the analysis. RESULTS: This study shows that a higher number of CD9(+) EVs were present in EDTA-plasma compared to ACD-plasma and to serum, and the presence of CD41a on these EVs suggests that they were released from platelets. Furthermore, only a very small number of EVs in blood were double-positive for CD63 and CD81. The CD63(+) EVs were enriched in serum, while CD81(+) vesicles were the rarest subpopulation in both plasma and serum. Additionally, EDTA-plasma contained more residual platelets than ACD-plasma and serum, and two centrifugation steps were crucial to reduce the number of platelets in plasma prior to EV isolation. CONCLUSION: These results show that human blood contains multiple subpopulations of EVs that carry different tetraspanins. Blood sampling methods, including the use of anti-coagulants and choice of centrifugation protocols, can affect EV analyses and should always be reported in detail.
PXD028487	35524559	Convergence of SIRT1 and ATR signaling to modulate replication origin dormancy. 	Convergence of SIRT1 and ATR signaling to modulate replication origin dormancy 	SIRT1 interactome	During routine genome duplication, many potential replication origins remain inactive or 'dormant'. Such origin dormancy is achieved, in part, by an interaction with the metabolic sensor SIRT1 deacetylase. We report here that dormant origins are a group of consistent, pre-determined genomic sequences that are distinguished from baseline (i.e. ordinarily active) origins by their preferential association with two phospho-isoforms of the helicase component MCM2. During normal unperturbed cell growth, baseline origins, but not dormant origins, associate with a form of MCM2 that is phosphorylated by DBF4-dependent kinase (DDK) on serine 139 (pS139-MCM2). This association facilitates the initiation of DNA replication from baseline origins. Concomitantly, SIRT1 inhibits Ataxia Telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR)-kinase-mediated phosphorylation of MCM2 on serine 108 (pS108-MCM2) by deacetylating the ATR-interacting protein DNA topoisomerase II binding protein 1 (TOPBP1), thereby preventing ATR recruitment to chromatin. In cells devoid of SIRT1 activity, or challenged by replication stress, this inhibition is circumvented, enabling ATR-mediated S108-MCM2 phosphorylation. In turn, pS108-MCM2 enables DDK-mediated phosphorylation on S139-MCM2 and facilitates replication initiation at dormant origins. These observations suggest that replication origin dormancy and activation are regulated by distinct post-translational MCM modifications that reflect a balance between SIRT1 activity and ATR signaling.
PXD031623	35529865	Proteomic and Antibody Profiles Reveal Antigenic Composition and Signatures of Bacterial Ghost Vaccine of Brucella abortus A19. 	Proteomic and Antibody Profiles Reveals Antigenic Composition and Signatures of Bacterial Ghost Vaccine of Brucella abortus A19	Brucellosis, antibody profiling, bacteria ghost, comparative proteomics, vaccine	Brucellosis is an important zoonotic disease that causes great economic losses. Vaccine immunisation is the main strategy for the prevention and control of brucellosis. Although live attenuated vaccines play important roles in the prevention of this disease, they also have several limitations, such as residual virulence and difficulty in the differentiation of immunisation and infection. We developed and evaluated a new bacterial ghost vaccine of Brucella abortus A19 by a new double inactivation method. The results showed that the bacterial ghost vaccine of Brucella represents a more safe and efficient vaccine for brucellosis. We further characterised the antigenic components and signatures of the vaccine candidate A19BG. Here, we utilised a mass spectrometry-based label-free relative quantitative proteomics approach to investigate the global proteomics changes in A19BGs compared to its parental A19. The proteomic analysis identified 2014 proteins, 1116 of which were differentially expressed compared with those in A19. The common immunological proteins of OMPs (Bcsp31, Omp25, Omp10, Omp19, Omp28, and Omp2a), HSPs (DnaK, GroS, and GroL), and SodC were enriched in the proteome of A19BG. By protein micro array-based antibody profiling, significant differences were observed between A19BG and A19 immune response, and a number of signature immunogenic proteins were identified. Two of these proteins, the BMEII0032 and BMEI0892 proteins were significantly different (P < 0.01) in distinguishing between A19 and A19BG immune sera and were identified as differential diagnostic antigens for the A19BG vaccine candidate. In conclusion, using comparative proteomics and antibody profiling, protein components and signature antigens were identified for the ghost vaccine candidate A19BG, which are valuable for further developing the vaccine and its monitoring assays.
PXD030658	35531313	Large-scale discovery of non-conventional peptides in grape (Vitis vinifera L.) through peptidogenomics. 	non-conventional peptides in grape	EL34, EL36), grape berry, non-conventional peptides, three development stages (EL32	Non-conventional peptides (NCPs), which are peptides derived from previously unannotated coding sequences, play important biological roles in plants. In this study, we used peptidogenomic methods that integrated mass spectrometry (MS) peptidomics and a six-frame translation database to extensively identify NCPs in grape. In total, 188 and 2021 non-redundant peptides from the Arabidopsis thaliana and Vitis vinifera L. protein database at Ensembl/URGI and an individualized peptidogenomic database were identified. Unlike conventional peptides, these NCPs derived mainly from intergenic, intronic, upstream ORF, 5'UTR, 3'UTR, and downstream ORF regions. These results show that unannotated regions are translated more broadly than we thought. We also found that most NCPs were derived from regions related to phenotypic variations, LTR retrotransposons, and domestication selection, indicating that the NCPs have an important function in complex biological processes. We also found that the NCPs were developmentally specific and had transient and specific functions in grape berry development. In summary, our study is the first to extensively identify NCPs in grape. It demonstrated that there was a large amount of translation in the genome. These results lay a foundation for studying the functions of NCPs and also provide a reference for the discovery of new functional genes in grape.
PXD032742	35531971	Developmental disruption to the cortical transcriptome and synaptosome in a model of SETD1A loss-of-function. 	Developmental disruption to the cortical transcriptome and synaptosome in a model of SETD1A loss-of-function	Development, Neuronal, SETD1A, Schizophrenia, Synaptosome	Large-scale genomic studies of schizophrenia implicate genes involved in the epigenetic regulation of transcription by histone methylation and genes encoding components of the synapse. However, the interactions between these pathways in conferring risk to psychiatric illness are unknown. Loss-of-function (LoF) mutations in the gene encoding histone methyltransferase, SETD1A, confer substantial risk to schizophrenia. Among several roles, SETD1A is thought to be involved in the development and function of neuronal circuits. Here, we employed a multi-omics approach to study the effects of heterozygous Setd1a LoF on gene expression and synaptic composition in mouse cortex across five developmental timepoints from embryonic day 14 to postnatal day 70. Using RNA sequencing, we observed that Setd1a LoF resulted in the consistent downregulation of genes enriched for mitochondrial pathways. This effect extended to the synaptosome, in which we found age-specific disruption to both mitochondrial and synaptic proteins. Using large-scale patient genomics data, we observed no enrichment for genetic association with schizophrenia within differentially expressed transcripts or proteins, suggesting they derive from a distinct mechanism of risk from that implicated by genomic studies. This study highlights biological pathways through which SETD1A LOF may confer risk to schizophrenia. Further work is required to determine whether the effects observed in this model reflect human pathology.
PXD032854	35533808	STUB1 regulates antiviral RNAi through inducing ubiquitination and degradation of Dicer and AGO2 in mammals. 	STUB1 regulates antiviral RNAi through inducing ubiquitination and degradation of Dicer and AGO2 in mammals	AGO2, Antiviral RNAi, Dicer, STUB1	RNA interference (RNAi) is an intrinsic antiviral immune mechanism conserved in diverse eukaryotic organisms. However, the mechanism by which antiviral RNAi in mammals is regulated is poorly understood. In this study, we uncovered that the E3 ubiquitin ligase STIP1 homology and U-box-containing protein 1 (STUB1) was a new regulator of the RNAi machinery in mammals. We found that STUB1 interacted with and ubiquitinated AGO2, and targeted it for degradation in a chaperon-dependent manner. STUB1 promoted the formation of Lys48 (K48)-linked polyubiquitin chains on AGO2, and facilitated AGO2 degradation through ubiquitin-proteasome system. In addition to AGO2, STUB1 also induced the protein degradation of AGO1, AGO3 and AGO4. Further investigation revealed that STUB1 also regulated Dicer's ubiquitination via K48-linked polyubiquitin and induced the degradation of Dicer as well as its specialized form, termed antiviral Dicer (aviDicer) that expresses in mammalian stem cells. Moreover, we found that STUB1 deficiency up-regulated Dicer and AGO2, thereby enhancing the RNAi response and efficiently inhibiting viral replication in mammalian cells. Using the newborn mouse model of Enterovirus A71 (EV-A71), we confirmed that STUB1 deficiency enhanced the virus-derived siRNAs production and antiviral RNAi, which elicited a potent antiviral effect against EV-A71 infection in vivo. In summary, our findings uncovered that the E3 ubiquitin ligase STUB1 was a general regulator of the RNAi machinery by targeting Dicer, aviDicer and AGO1-4. Moreover, STUB1 regulated the RNAi response through mediating the abundance of Dicer and AGO2 during viral infection, thereby providing novel insights into the regulation of antiviral RNAi in mammals.
PXD033376	35534502	Identification of oleoylethanolamide as an endogenous ligand for HIF-3alpha. 	Investigating the  conformational changes of OEA on  HIF-3A-ARNT by HDX-MS	HDX-MS, HIF-3A-ARNT, OEA	Hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs) are alpha/beta heterodimeric transcription factors modulating cellular responses to the low oxygen condition. Among three HIF-alpha isoforms, HIF-3alpha is the least studied to date. Here we show that oleoylethanolamide (OEA), a physiological lipid known to regulate food intake and metabolism, binds selectively to HIF-3alpha. Through crystallographic analysis of HIF-3 alpha/beta heterodimer in both apo and OEA-bound forms, hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, and biochemical and cell-based assays, we unveil the molecular mechanism of OEA entry and binding to the PAS-B pocket of HIF-3alpha, and show that it leads to enhanced heterodimer stability and functional modulation of HIF-3. The identification of HIF-3alpha as a selective lipid sensor is consistent with recent human genetic findings linking HIF-3alpha with obesity, and demonstrates that endogenous metabolites can directly interact with HIF-alpha proteins to modulate their activities, potentially as a regulatory mechanism supplementary to the well-known oxygen-dependent HIF-alpha hydroxylation.
PXD031167	35534617	Comparative proteome analysis of the tegument of male and female adult Schistosoma mansoni. 	Comparative proteome analysis of the tegument of male and female adult Schistosoma mansoni	Schistosoma manson, tegument	The tegument, as the surface layer of adult male and female Schistosoma spp. represents the protective barrier of the worms to the hostile environment of the host bloodstream. Here we present the first comparative analysis of sex-specific tegument proteins of paired or virgin Schistosoma mansoni. We applied a new and highly sensitive workflow, allowing detection of even low abundance proteins. Therefore, a streptavidin-biotin affinity purification technique in combination with single pot solid-phase enhanced sample preparation was established for subsequent LC-MS/MS analysis. We were able to identify 1519 tegument proteins for male and female virgin and paired worms and categorized them by sex. Bioinformatic analysis revealed an involvement of female-specific tegument proteins in signaling pathways of cellular processes and antioxidant mechanisms. Male-specific proteins were found to be enriched in processes linked to phosphorylation and signal transduction. This suggests a task sharing between the sexes that might be necessary for survival in the host. Our datasets provide a basis for further studies to understand and ultimately decipher the strategies of the two worm sexes to evade the immune system.
PXD031338	35536179	Design of a Potent, Selective, and Brain-Penetrant Inhibitor of Wnt-Deactivating Enzyme Notum by Optimization of a Crystallographic Fragment Hit. 	Design of a potent, selective and brain penetrant inhibitor of Wnt-deactivating enzyme Notum by optimization of a crystallographic fragment hit	Carboyxlesterase, Inhibitor, Notum, Wnt signalling	Notum is a carboxylesterase that suppresses Wnt signaling through deacylation of an essential palmitoleate group on Wnt proteins. There is a growing understanding of the role Notum plays in human diseases such as colorectal cancer and Alzheimer's disease, supporting the need to discover improved inhibitors, especially for use in models of neurodegeneration. Here, we have described the discovery and profile of 8l (ARUK3001185) as a potent, selective, and brain-penetrant inhibitor of Notum activity suitable for oral dosing in rodent models of disease. Crystallographic fragment screening of the Diamond-SGC Poised Library for binding to Notum, supported by a biochemical enzyme assay to rank inhibition activity, identified 6a and 6b as a pair of outstanding hits. Fragment development of 6 delivered 8l that restored Wnt signaling in the presence of Notum in a cell-based reporter assay. Assessment in pharmacology screens showed 8l to be selective against serine hydrolases, kinases, and drug targets.
PXD023428	35537042	Autophagy in PDGFRalpha+ mesenchymal cells is essential for intestinal stem cell survival. 	Autophagy in PDGFRalpha+ Mesenchymal Cells is Essential for Intestinal Stem Cell Survival: MALDI data	MALDI, PDGFRalpha+ Mesenchymal Cells, autophagy	Autophagy defects are a risk factor for inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) through unknown mechanisms. Whole-body conditional deletion of autophagy-related gene (Atg) Atg7 in adult mice (Atg7Delta/Delta) causes tissue damage and death within 3 mo due to neurodegeneration without substantial effect on intestine. In contrast, we report here that whole-body conditional deletion of other essential Atg genes Atg5 or Fip200/Atg17 in adult mice (Atg5Delta/Delta or Fip200Delta/Delta) caused death within 5 d due to rapid autophagy inhibition, elimination of ileum stem cells, and loss of barrier function. Atg5Delta/Delta mice lost PDGFRalpha+ mesenchymal cells (PMCs) and Wnt signaling essential for stem cell renewal, which were partially rescued by exogenous Wnt. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization coupled to mass spectrometry imaging (MALDI-MSI) of Atg5Delta/Delta ileum revealed depletion of aspartate and nucleotides, consistent with metabolic insufficiency underlying PMC loss. The difference in the autophagy gene knockout phenotypes is likely due to distinct kinetics of autophagy loss, as deletion of Atg5 more gradually extended lifespan phenocopying deletion of Atg7 or Atg12. Thus, autophagy is required for PMC metabolism and ileum stem cell and mammalian survival. Failure to maintain PMCs through autophagy may therefore contribute to IBD.
PXD017278	35537551	Factor inhibiting HIF can catalyze two asparaginyl hydroxylations in VNVN motifs of ankyrin fold proteins. 	Factor Inhibiting HIF catalyses two asparaginyl-hydroxylations in VNVN motifs of ankyrin proteins	ASPP, HIF, Hydroxylation	The aspariginyl hydroxylase human factor inhibiting hypoxia-inducible factor (FIH) is an important regulator of the transcriptional activity of hypoxia-inducible factor. FIH also catalyzes the hydroxylation of asparaginyl and other residues in ankyrin repeat domain-containing proteins, including apoptosis stimulating of p53 protein (ASPP) family members. ASPP2 is reported to undergo a single FIH-catalyzed hydroxylation at Asn-986. We report biochemical and crystallographic evidence showing that FIH catalyzes the unprecedented post-translational hydroxylation of both asparaginyl residues in "VNVN" and related motifs of ankyrin repeat domains in ASPPs (i.e., ASPP1, ASPP2, and iASPP) and the related ASB11 and p18-INK4C proteins. Our biochemical results extend the substrate scope of FIH catalysis and may have implications for its biological roles, including in the hypoxic response and ASPP family function.
PXD030952	35538051	Statin therapy inhibits fatty acid synthase via dynamic protein modifications. 	Statin therapy inhibits Fatty Acid Synthase via dynamic protein modifications	Fatty Acid Synthase, HMGylation, Statin	Statins are a class of drug widely prescribed for the prevention of cardiovascular disease, with pleiotropic cellular effects. Statins inhibit HMG-CoA reductase (HMGCR), which converts the metabolite HMG-CoA into mevalonate. Recent discoveries have shown HMG-CoA is a reactive metabolite that can non-enzymatically modify proteins and impact their activity. Therefore, we predicted that inhibition of HMGCR by statins might increase HMG-CoA levels and protein modifications. Upon statin treatment, we observe a strong increase in HMG-CoA levels and modification of only a single protein. Mass spectrometry identifies this protein as fatty acid synthase (FAS), which is modified on active site residues and, importantly, on non-lysine side-chains. The dynamic modifications occur only on a sub-pool of FAS that is located near HMGCR and alters cellular signaling around the ER and Golgi. These results uncover communication between cholesterol and lipid biosynthesis by the substrate of one pathway inhibiting another in a rapid and reversible manner.
PXD031195	35538155	Acetylome analysis of acetylation providing new insight into sclerotial generation in medicinal fungus Polyporus umbellatus. 	Acetylome analysis of acetylation providing new insight into sclerotial generation in medicinal fungus Polyporus umbellatus	AB Triple TOF5600+, Polyporus umbellatus	Sclerotium-forming fungi are ecologically diverse and possess notable pathogenic or medicinal properties. The sclerotial generation mechanism is still elusive though Polyporus umbellatus sclerotia are typical Traditional Chinese Medicine with diuretic and antitumor effects. Protein acetylation displays a crucial role in several biological processes, but the functions of acetylation in this valuable fungus are unknown at present. In this study, acetylome of P. umbellatus was studied using nano LC-Triple TOF mass spectrometry system following immune-affinity-based enrichment. Totally, 648 acetylated sites in 342 proteins were identified and nine motifs were found to be conserved in P. umbellatus including K(ac)Y, K(ac)A, K(ac)L, K(ac)G, M(ac)S, M(ac)A, R(ac)A, R(ac)L, and R(ac)G. Acetylated proteins taken part in types of biological processes, particularly to those in biological processes associated with reactive oxygen species (ROS) metabolism. Inhibitors complement tests were carried out to verify the role of ROS in acetylation modification. It was concluded that oxidative stress regulated sclerotial generation via proteins acetylation in P. umbellatus. The present study presents new insight into the essential roles of acetylation in sclerotial formation, which may also be applicable for other sclerotium-forming fungi.
PXD030318	35538492	Molecular cloning, characterization, and functional analysis of the uncharacterized C11orf96 gene. 	Rabbit liver tissue infected with rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV) LC-MS	LC-MS, Liver, RHDV, Rabbit	BACKGROUND: The mammalian genome encodes millions of proteins. Although many proteins have been discovered and identified, a large part of proteins encoded by genes are yet to be discovered or fully characterized. In the present study, we successfully identified a host protein C11orf96 that was significantly upregulated after viral infection. RESULTS: First, we successfully cloned the coding sequence (CDS) region of the cat, human, and mouse C11orf96 gene. The CDS region of the C11orf96 gene is 372 bp long, encodes 124 amino acids, and is relatively conserved in different mammals. From bioinformatics analysis, we found that C11orf96 is rich in Ser and has multiple predicted phosphorylation sites. Moreover, protein interaction prediction analysis revealed that the protein is associated with several transmembrane family proteins and zinc finger proteins. Subsequently, we found that C11orf96 is strictly distributed in the cytoplasm. According to the tissue distribution characteristics, C11orf96 is distributed in all tissues and organs, with the highest expression levels in the kidney. These results indicate that C11orf96 may play a specific biological role in the kidney. CONCLUSIONS: Summarizing, these data lay the foundation for studying the biological functions of C11orf96 and for exploring its role in viral replication.
PXD030756	35538574	Long noncoding RNA BCRP3 stimulates VPS34 and autophagy activities to promote protein homeostasis and cell survival. 	Long noncoding RNA BCRP3 stimulates VPS34 and autophagy activities to promote protein homeostasis and cell survival	LncRNA, TGF-beta signaling, VPS34 complex, autophagy, cell death., protein quality control	BACKGROUND: Autophagy plays important roles in cell homeostasis and protein quality control. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been revealed as an emerging class of autophagy regulators, but the majority of them function in regulating the expression of autophagy-related genes. LncRNAs that directly act on the core autophagic proteins remain to be explored. METHODS: Immunofluorescence staining and Western blotting were used to evaluate the function of BCRP3 in autophagy and aggrephagy. RNA immunoprecipitation and in vitro RNA-protein binding assay were used to evaluate the interaction of BCRP3 with its target proteins. Phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate ELISA assay was used to quantify the enzymatic activity of VPS34 complex. qRT-PCR analysis was used to determine BCRP3 expression under stresses, whereas mass spectrometry and Gene Ontology analyses were employed to evaluate the effect of BCRP3 deficiency on proteome changes. RESULTS: We identified lncRNA BCRP3 as a positive regulator of autophagy. BCRP3 was mainly localized in the cytoplasm and bound VPS34 complex to increase its enzymatic activity. In response to proteotoxicity induced by proteasome inhibition or oxidative stress, BCRP3 was upregulated to promote aggrephagy, thereby facilitating the clearance of ubiquitinated protein aggregates. Proteomics analysis revealed that BCRP3 deficiency under proteotoxicity resulted in a preferential accumulation of proteins acting in growth inhibition, cell death, apoptosis, and Smad signaling. Accordingly, BCRP3 deficiency in proteotoxic cells compromised cell proliferation and survival, which was mediated in part through the upregulation of TGF-beta/Smad2 pathway. CONCLUSIONS: Our study identifies BCRP3 as an RNA activator of the VPS34 complex and a key role of BCRP3-mediated aggrephagy in protein quality control and selective degradation of growth and survival inhibitors to maintain cell fitness.
PXD029727	35543322	Conservation and divergence of myelin proteome and oligodendrocyte transcriptome profiles between humans and mice. 	Conservation and divergence of myelin proteome profiles between humans and mice	Oligodendrocyte, autopsy, central nervous system (CNS), human post mortem brain tissue, label-free proteomics, myelin proteome, translation	Human myelin disorders are commonly studied in mouse models. Since both clades evolutionarily diverged approximately 85 million years ago, it is critical to know to what extent the myelin protein composition has remained similar. Here, we use quantitative proteomics to analyze myelin purified from human white matter and find that the relative abundance of the structural myelin proteins PLP, MBP, CNP, and SEPTIN8 correlates well with that in C57Bl/6N mice. Conversely, multiple other proteins were identified exclusively or predominantly in human or mouse myelin. This is exemplified by peripheral myelin protein 2 (PMP2), which was specific to human central nervous system myelin, while tetraspanin-2 (TSPAN2) and connexin-29 (CX29/GJC3) were confined to mouse myelin. Assessing published scRNA-seq-datasets, human and mouse oligodendrocytes display well-correlating transcriptome profiles but divergent expression of distinct genes, including Pmp2, Tspan2, and Gjc3. A searchable web interface is accessible via www.mpinat.mpg.de/myelin. Species-dependent diversity of oligodendroglial mRNA expression and myelin protein composition can be informative when translating from mouse models to humans.
PXD030711	35544339	Pancreatic INS-1 beta-Cell Response to Thapsigargin and Rotenone: A Comparative Proteomics Analysis Uncovers Key Pathways of beta-Cell Dysfunction. 	QuantitaQuantitative proteomic analysis of beta-cells response to thapsigargin and rotenone uncovers key pathways of rat beta-cell dysfunction tive proteomic analysis of beta-cells response to thapsigargin and rotenone uncovers key pathways of rat beta-cell dysfu	Diabetes (B/D-HPP), Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, INS-1 beta cells, Metascape, Mitochondria stress, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Quantitative proteomics, TMTpro, cells	Insulin-secreting beta-cells in the pancreatic islets are exposed to various endogenous and exogenous stressing conditions, which may lead to beta-cell dysfunction or apoptosis and ultimately to diabetes mellitus. However, the detailed molecular mechanisms underlying beta-cell's inability to survive under severe stresses remain to be explored. This study used two common chemical stressors, thapsigargin and rotenone, to induce endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and mitochondria stress in a rat insuloma INS-1 832/13 beta-cell line, mimicking the conditions experienced by dysfunctional beta-cells. Proteomic changes of cells upon treatment with stressors at IC50 were profiled with TMT-based quantitative proteomics and further verified using label-free quantitive proteomics. The differentially expressed proteins under stress conditions were selected for in-depth bioinformatic analysis. Thapsigargin treatment specifically perturbed unfolded protein response (UPR) related pathways; in addition, 58 proteins not previously linked to the UPR related pathways were identified with consistent upregulation under stress induced by thapsigargin. Conversely, rotenone treatment resulted in significant proteome changes in key mitochondria regulatory pathways such as fatty acid beta-oxidation, cellular respiration, citric acid cycle, and respiratory electron transport. Our data also demonstrated that both stressors increased reactive oxygen species production and depleted adenosine triphosphate synthesis, resulting in significant dysregulation of oxidative phosphorylation signaling pathways. These novel dysregulated proteins may suggest an alternative mechanism of action in beta-cell dysfunction and provide potential targets for probing ER- and mitochondria stress-induced beta-cell death.
PXD032131	35544574	Tankyrase-mediated ADP-ribosylation is a regulator of TNF-induced death. 	Tankyrase-mediated ADP-ribosylation is a novel regulator of TNF-induced death	ADP-ribosylation, TNF-induced cell death, Tankyrase	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is a key component of the innate immune response. Upon binding to its receptor, TNFR1, it promotes production of other cytokines via a membrane-bound complex 1 or induces cell death via a cytosolic complex 2. To understand how TNF-induced cell death is regulated, we performed mass spectrometry of complex 2 and identified tankyrase-1 as a native component that, upon a death stimulus, mediates complex 2 poly-ADP-ribosylation (PARylation). PARylation promotes recruitment of the E3 ligase RNF146, resulting in proteasomal degradation of complex 2, thereby limiting cell death. Expression of the ADP-ribose-binding/hydrolyzing severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 macrodomain sensitizes cells to TNF-induced death via abolishing complex 2 PARylation. This suggests that disruption of ADP-ribosylation during an infection can prime a cell to retaliate with an inflammatory cell death.
PXD032850	35547739	FGFR2-BRD4 Axis Regulates Transcriptional Networks of Histone 3 Modification and Synergy Between Its Inhibitors and PD-1/PD-L1 in a TNBC Mouse Model. 	human Synthesis and preparation of histone3 modification peptides	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Epigenetic Chromatin (B/D-HPP), Histones 3, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP)	Epigenetic reprogramming is an independent mode of gene expression that often involves changes in the transcription and chromatin structure due to tumor initiation and development. In this study, we developed a specifically modified peptide array and searched for a recognized epigenetic reader. Our results demonstrated that BRD4 is not only an acetylation reader but of propionylation as well. We also studied the quantitative binding affinities between modified peptides and epigenetic regulators by isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC). Furthermore, we introduced the Fgfr2-S252W transgenic mouse model to confirm that this acetylation is associated with the activation of c-Myc and drives tumor formation. Targeted disruption of BRD4 in Fgfr2-S252W mouse tumor cells also confirmed that BRD4 is a key regulator of histone 3 acetylation. Finally, we developed a tumor slice culture system and demonstrated the synergy between immune checkpoint blockade and targeted therapy in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). These data extend our understanding of epigenetic reprogramming and epigenetics-based therapies.
PXD028307	35547758	Glycoproteogenomics characterizes the CD44 splicing code associated with bladder cancer invasion. 	Characterization of CD44s glycoproteoforms in bladder tumours and bladder cancer cell culture models	Bladder Cancer, CD44, alternative splicing, glycoproteogenomics, glycosylation	Rationale: Bladder cancer (BC) management demands the introduction of novel molecular targets for precision medicine. Cell surface glycoprotein CD44 has been widely studied as a potential biomarker of BC aggressiveness and cancer stem cells. However, significant alternative splicing and multiple glycosylation generate a myriad of glycoproteoforms with potentially distinct functional roles. The lack of tools for precise molecular characterization has led to conflicting results, delaying clinical applications. Addressing these limitations, we have interrogated the transcriptome and glycoproteome of a large BC patient cohort for splicing signatures. Methods:CD44 gene and its splicing variants were assessed by Real Time-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) and RNAseq in tumor tissues. The co-localization of CD44 and short O-glycans was evaluated by proximity ligation assay (PLA), immunohistochemistry and double-immunofluorescence. An innovative glycoproteogenomics approach, integrating transcriptomics-customized datasets and glycomics for protein annotation from nanoLC-ESI-MS/MS experiments, was developed and implemented to identify CD44 variants and associated glycosignatures. The impact of CD44 silencing on proliferation and invasion of BC cell lines and glycoengineered cells was determined by BrdU ELISA and Matrigel invasion assays, respectively. Antibody phosphoarrays were used to investigate the role of CD44 and its glycoforms in the activation of relevant oncogenic signaling pathways. Results: Transcriptomics analysis revealed remarkable CD44 isoforms heterogeneity in bladder cancer tissues, as well as associations between short CD44 standard splicing isoform (CD44s), invasion and poor prognosis. We further demonstrated that targeting short O-glycoforms such as the Tn and sialyl-Tn antigens was key to overcome the lack of cancer specificity presented by CD44. Glycoproteogenomics allowed, for the first time, the comprehensive characterization of CD44 splicing code at the protein level. The concept was applied to invasive human BC cell lines, glycoengineered cells, and tumor tissues, enabling unequivocal CD44s identification as well as associated glycoforms. Finally, we confirmed the link between CD44 and invasion in CD44s-enriched cells in vitro by small interfering RNA (siRNA) knockdown, supporting findings from BC tissues. The key role played by short-chain O-glycans in CD44-mediated invasion was also demonstrated through glycoengineered cell models. Conclusions: Overall, CD44s emerged as biomarker of poor prognosis and CD44-Tn/ Sialyl-Tn (STn) as promising molecular signatures for targeted interventions. This study materializes the concept of glycoproteogenomics and provides a key vision to address the cancer splicing code at the protein level, which may now be expanded to better understand CD44 functional role in health and disease.
PXD028014	35547804	TMPRSS12 Functions in Meiosis and Spermiogenesis and Is Required for Male Fertility in Mice. 	Differential protein expression profiles of testes in Tmprss12-/- and wild-type mice	TMPRSS12, serine protease, testis	Serine proteases are involved in many physiological activities as initiators of proteolytic cascades, and some members have been reported to play roles in male reproduction. Transmembrane serine protease 12 (TMPRSS12) has been shown to regulate sperm motility and uterotubal junction migration in mice, but its role in the testis remains unknown. In this study, we verified that TMPRSS12 was expressed in the spermatocytes and spermatids of testis and the acrosome of sperm. Mice deficient in Tmprss12 exhibited male sterility. In meiosis, TMPRSS12 was demonstrated to regulate synapsis and double-strand break repair; spermatocytes of Tmprss12 (-/-) mice underwent impaired meiosis and subsequent apoptosis, resulting in reduced sperm counts. During spermiogenesis, TMPRSS12 was found to function in the development of mitochondria; abnormal mitochondrial structure in Tmprss12 (-/-) sperm led to reduced availability of ATP, impacting sperm motility. The differential protein expression profiles of testes in Tmprss12 (-/-) and wild-type mice and further molecule identification revealed potential targets of TMPRSS12 related to meiosis and mitochondrial function. Besides, TMPRSS12 was also found to be involved in a series of sperm functions, including capacitation, acrosome reaction and sperm-egg interaction. These data imply that TMPRSS12 plays a role in multiple aspects of male reproduction.
PXD028545	35548300	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Plasma Membrane Proteins in Rice Leaves Reveals a Vesicle Trafficking Network in Plant Immunity That Is Provoked by Blast Fungi. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of plasma membrane proteins in rice leaves reveals a vesicle trafficking network in plant immunity provoked by blast fungi	plasma membrane, rice	Rice blast, caused by Magnaporthe oryzae, is one of the most devastating diseases in rice and can affect rice production worldwide. Rice plasma membrane (PM) proteins are crucial for rapidly and precisely establishing a defense response in plant immunity when rice and blast fungi interact. However, the plant-immunity-associated vesicle trafficking network mediated by PM proteins is poorly understood. In this study, to explore changes in PM proteins during M. oryzae infection, the PM proteome was analyzed via iTRAQ in the resistant rice landrace Heikezijing. A total of 831 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified, including 434 upregulated and 397 downregulated DEPs. In functional analyses, DEPs associated with vesicle trafficking were significantly enriched, including the "transport" term in a Gene Ontology enrichment analysis, the endocytosis and phagosome pathways in a Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis, and vesicle-associated proteins identified via a protein-protein interaction network analysis. OsNPSN13, a novel plant-specific soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) 13 protein, was identified as an upregulated DEP, and transgenic plants overexpressing this gene showed enhanced blast resistance, while transgenic knockdown plants were more susceptible than wild-type plants. The changes in abundance and putative functions of 20 DEPs revealed a possible vesicle trafficking network in the M. oryzae-rice interaction. A comparative proteomic analysis of plasma membrane proteins in rice leaves revealed a plant-immunity-associated vesicle trafficking network that is provoked by blast fungi; these results provide new insights into rice resistance responses against rice blast fungi.
PXD021528	35549218	A Comprehensive Evaluation of Consensus Spectrum Generation Methods in Proteomics. 	Cullin 4b modulates Wnt signaling and CRL4b targets Irgm1 to fuel intestinal stem cell stemness and niche	Cul4b, Irgm1, intestinal stem cells (ISCs), stem cell niche	Spectrum clustering is a powerful strategy to minimize redundant mass spectra by grouping them based on similarity, with the aim of forming groups of mass spectra from the same repeatedly measured analytes. Each such group of near-identical spectra can be represented by its so-called consensus spectrum for downstream processing. Although several algorithms for spectrum clustering have been adequately benchmarked and tested, the influence of the consensus spectrum generation step is rarely evaluated. Here, we present an implementation and benchmark of common consensus spectrum algorithms, including spectrum averaging, spectrum binning, the most similar spectrum, and the best-identified spectrum. We have analyzed diverse public data sets using two different clustering algorithms (spectra-cluster and MaRaCluster) to evaluate how the consensus spectrum generation procedure influences downstream peptide identification. The BEST and BIN methods were found the most reliable methods for consensus spectrum generation, including for data sets with post-translational modifications (PTM) such as phosphorylation. All source code and data of the present study are freely available on GitHub at https://github.com/statisticalbiotechnology/representative-spectra-benchmark.
PXD022084	35550247	FER-mediated phosphorylation and PIK3R2 recruitment on IRS4 promotes AKT activation and tumorigenesis in ovarian cancer cells. 	FER-mediated phosphorylation and PIK3R2 recruitment on IRS4 promotes AKT activation and tumorigenesis in ovarian cancer	Tyrosine phosphorylation	Tyrosine phosphorylation, orchestrated by tyrosine kinases and phosphatases, modulates a multi-layered signaling network in a time- and space-dependent manner. Dysregulation of this post-translational modification is inevitably associated with pathological diseases. Our previous work has demonstrated that non-receptor tyrosine kinase FER is upregulated in ovarian cancer, knocking down which attenuates metastatic phenotypes. However, due to the limited number of known substrates in the ovarian cancer context, the molecular basis for its pro-proliferation activity remains enigmatic. Here, we employed mass spectrometry and biochemical approaches to identify insulin receptor substrate 4 (IRS4) as a novel substrate of FER. FER engaged its kinase domain to associate with the PH and PTB domains of IRS4. Using a proximity-based tagging system in ovarian carcinoma-derived OVCAR-5 cells, we determined that FER-mediated phosphorylation of Tyr779 enables IRS4 to recruit PIK3R2/p85beta, the regulatory subunit of PI3K, and activate the PI3K-AKT pathway. Rescuing IRS4-null ovarian tumor cells with phosphorylation-defective mutant, but not WT IRS4 delayed ovarian tumor cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. Overall, we revealed a kinase-substrate mode between FER and IRS4, and the pharmacological inhibition of FER kinase may be beneficial for ovarian cancer patients with PI3K-AKT hyperactivation.
PXD031819	35550511	Dual-resolving of positional and geometric isomers of C=C bonds via bifunctional photocycloaddition-photoisomerization reaction system. 	Dual-Resolving of Positional and Geometric Isomerism of C=Cs via Bifunctional Visible-light-activated Photocycloaddition-Photoisomerization Reaction System	Photocycloaddition, Photoisomerization, lipidomic, lisomers	The biological functions of lipids largely depend on their chemical structures. The position and configuration of C=C bonds are two of the essential attributes that determine the structures of unsaturated lipids. However, simultaneous identification of both attributes remains challenging. Here, we develop a bifunctional visible-light-activated photocycloaddition-photoisomerization reaction system, which enables the dual-resolving of the positional and geometric isomerism of C=C bonds in lipids when combines with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The dual-pathway reaction mechanism is demonstrated by experiments and density functional theory calculations. Based on this bifunctional reaction system, a workflow of deep structural lipidomics is established, and allows the revealing of unique patterns of cis-trans-isomers in bacteria, as well as the tracking of C=C positional isomers changes in mouse brain ischemia. This study not only offers a powerful tool for deep lipid structural biology, but also provides a paradigm for developing the multifunctional visible-light-induced reaction.
PXD032849	35551190	Arabidopsis cryptochrome 2 forms photobodies with TCP22 under blue light and regulates the circadian clock. 	Phosphorylation of TCP22 by PPK1 in HEK293 cells	TCP22,PPK1	Cryptochromes are blue light receptors that regulate plant growth and development. They also act as the core components of the central clock oscillator in animals. Although plant cryptochromes have been reported to regulate the circadian clock in blue light, how they do so is unclear. Here we show that Arabidopsis cryptochrome 2 (CRY2) forms photobodies with the TCP22 transcription factor in response to blue light in plant cells. We provide evidence that PPK kinases influence the characteristics of these photobodies and that together these components, along with LWD transcriptional regulators, can positively regulate the expression of CCA1 encoding a central component of the circadian oscillator.
PXD033451	35552390	Active conformation of the p97-p47 unfoldase complex. 	Human P47 interactome for comparison against CryoEM data	Flag, HEK293, affinity purification	The p97 AAA+ATPase is an essential and abundant regulator of protein homeostasis that plays a central role in unfolding ubiquitylated substrates. Here we report two cryo-EM structures of human p97 in complex with its p47 adaptor. One of the conformations is six-fold symmetric, corresponds to previously reported structures of p97, and lacks bound substrate. The other structure adopts a helical conformation, displays substrate running in an extended conformation through the pore of the p97 hexamer, and resembles structures reported for other AAA unfoldases. These findings support the model that p97 utilizes a "hand-over-hand" mechanism in which two residues of the substrate are translocated for hydrolysis of two ATPs, one in each of the two p97 AAA ATPase rings. Proteomics analysis supports the model that one p97 complex can bind multiple substrate adaptors or binding partners, and can process substrates with multiple types of ubiquitin modification.
PXD030520	35554517	The Gut Microbiota Metabolite Succinate Promotes Adipose Tissue Browning in Crohn's Disease. 	The Gut Microbiota Metabolite Succinate promotes Adipose Tissue Browning in Crohn's Disease	Chron Disease, Microbiota	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Crohn's disease [CD] is associated with complex microbe-host interactions, involving changes in microbial communities, and gut barrier defects, leading to the translocation of microorganisms to surrounding adipose tissue [AT]. We evaluated the presence of beige AT depots in CD and questioned whether succinate and/or bacterial translocation promotes white-to-beige transition in adipocytes. METHODS: Visceral [VAT] and subcutaneous [SAT] AT biopsies, serum and plasma were obtained from patients with active [n = 21] or inactive [n = 12] CD, and from healthy controls [n = 15]. Adipose-derived stem cells [ASCs] and AT macrophages [ATMs] were isolated from VAT biopsies. RESULTS: Plasma succinate levels were significantly higher in patients with active CD than in controls and were intermediate in those with inactive disease. Plasma succinate correlated with the inflammatory marker high-sensitivity C-reactive protein. Expression of the succinate receptor SUCNR1 was higher in VAT, ASCs and ATMs from the active CD group than from the inactive or control groups. Succinate treatment of ASCs elevated the expression of several beige AT markers from controls and from patients with inactive disease, including uncoupling protein-1 [UCP1]. Notably, beige AT markers were prominent in ASCs from patients with active CD. Secretome profiling revealed that ASCs from patients with active disease secrete beige AT-related proteins, and co-culture assays showed that bacteria also trigger the white-to-beige switch of ASCs from patients with CD. Finally, AT depots from patients with CD exhibited a conversion from white to beige AT together with high UCP1 expression, which was corroborated by in situ thermal imaging analysis. CONCLUSIONS: Succinate and bacteria trigger white-to-beige AT transition in CD. Understanding the role of beige AT in CD might aid in the development of therapeutic or diagnostic interventions.
PXD022320	35557041	Proteomic characterization of four subtypes of M2 macrophages derived from human THP-1 cells. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of four subtypes of M2 macrophages	M2 macrophage, PRM, biomarker, polarization	Macrophages are widely distributed immune cells that contribute to tissue homeostasis. Human THP-1 cells have been widely used in various macrophage-associated studies, especially those involving pro-inflammatory M1 and anti-inflammatory M2 phenotypes. However, the molecular characterization of four M2 subtypes (M2a, M2b, M2c, and M2d) derived from THP-1 has not been fully investigated. In this study, we systematically analyzed the protein expression profiles of human THP-1-derived macrophages (M0, M1, M2a, M2b, M2c, and M2d) using quantitative proteomics approaches. The commonly and specially regulated proteins of the four M2 subtypes and their potential biological functions were further investigated. The results showed that M2a and M2b, and M2c and M2d have very similar protein expression profiles. These data could serve as an important resource for studies of macrophages using THP-1 cells, and provide a reference to distinguish different M2 subtypes in macrophage-associated diseases for subsequent clinical research.
PXD027640	35557691	Mediator Complex of the Malaria Parasite Plasmodium falciparum Associates with Evolutionarily Novel Subunits. 	The Mediator complex in the malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum contains evolutionarily novel subunits	Plasmodium falciparum, interactome	The eukaryotic Mediator is a large and conserved multisubunit protein complex that directly contacts RNA polymerase II and impinges on multiple aspects of gene expression. The genome of the human malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum has been predicted to encode several Mediator subunits. We provide physical evidence for the presence of a Mediator complex in P. falciparum by using coimmunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry to identify interaction partners of the highly conserved Mediator subunit PfMed31. We identify 11 of 14 predicted Mediator subunits and the products of two uncharacterized genes, PF3D7_0526800 and PF3D7_1363600, which are strongly associated with PfMed31. As expected, several additional interaction partners have known roles in the transcriptional control of gene expression and mRNA processing. Intriguingly, multiple interaction partners are implicated in endoplasmic reticulum function and the ER stress (ERS) response, suggesting crosstalk between the ERS response and the transcriptional machinery. Our results establish for the first time the physical presence of the Mediator complex within P. falciparum and strongly suggest that it plays both conserved and unique roles in the control of gene expression. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD027640.
PXD033124	35557941	Ectopic Endometrial Cell-Derived Exosomal Moesin Induces Eutopic Endometrial Cell Migration, Enhances Angiogenesis and Cytosolic Inflammation in Lesions Contributes to Endometriosis Progression. 	Proteomics of ectopic endometrial cell-derived exosomes in endometriosis	endometriosis, exosomes	Background: Endometriosis (EMs) is the most common gynaecological disorder with its etiology and/or pathophysiology remains enigmatic. Recent studies showed that extracellular vesicles (EVs), exosomes in particular, play a critical role in developing various clinical disorders. However, the implication of exosomes in endometriosis progression has not been well elucidated. Method: The ectopic stromal cellular exosomes (eEVs) were assessed by transwell assay, scratch tests, tube formation assay, western blot, and qRT-PCR analysis. Protein expression profiles of exosomes in endometrial tissue and vaginal discharge collected from patients with EMS and healthy donors were analysed by Mass spectrometry. siRNA interference technology was used to inhibit the expression of exosomal protein for the functional analysis in in-vivo. Finally, in-vitro experiments were performed to validate the results that we observed in EMs mouse model. Results: In vitro, we discovered that eEVs improved NSC migratory potential by upregulating MMP9 expression and activity. eEVs also aided angiogenesis and elevated the expression of inflammatory cytokines in ovarian epithelial cells, according to our findings. Moesin (MSN) levels in ESC exosomes were substantially greater than in NSC exosomes (1.22e(8)+/-5.58e(6) vs. 6.605e(7)+/-4.574e(6), LFQ intensity), as shown by protein mass spectrometry and bioinformatics analysis. In ectopic stromal cells, ERa receptors stimulated the RhoA/Rock-2/MSN pathway. We discovered that downregulating exosomal moesin reduced NSC migration (about 3-fold change) and MMP9 expression (about 2-fold change). On the other hand, Exomsni inhibited angiogenesis and inflammatory cytokine release. In vivo the result of immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence demonstrated that exosomal MSN substantially modified the expression of MM9, VEGFR and p-VEGFR in polyclonal lesions. In addition, we discovered an elevation in the expression of proinflammatory factors in the surrounding tissue. Conclusion: Exosomal MSN derived from ectopic stromal cells can contribute to endometriosis progression by mediating the construction of a "migration-vascularization-inflammation" loop in the ectopic environment.
PXD028893	35558126	The W-Acidic Motif of Histidine Kinase WalK Is Required for Signaling and Transcriptional Regulation in Streptococcus mutans. 	A C-terminal tail deletion of histidine kinase WalK/VicK disrupted transcriptional regulation in Streptococcus mutans	WalK, biofilm, histidine kinase, response regulator, two-component system	In Streptococcus mutans, we find that the histidine kinase WalK possesses the longest C-terminal tail (CTT) among all 14 TCSs, and this tail plays a key role in the interaction of WalK with its response regulator WalR. We demonstrate that the intrinsically disordered CTT is characterized by a conserved tryptophan residue surrounded by acidic amino acids. Mutation in the tryptophan not only disrupts the stable interaction, but also impairs the efficient phosphotransferase and phosphatase activities of WalRK. In addition, the tryptophan is important for WalK to compete with DNA containing a WalR binding motif for the WalR interaction. We further show that the tryptophan is important for in vivo transcriptional regulation and bacterial biofilm formation by S. mutans. Moreover, Staphylococcus aureus WalK also has a characteristic CTT, albeit relatively shorter, with a conserved W-acidic motif, that is required for the WalRK interaction in vitro. Together, these data reveal that the W-acidic motif of WalK is indispensable for its interaction with WalR, thereby playing a key role in the WalRK-dependent signal transduction, transcriptional regulation and biofilm formation.
PXD027795	35559678	Essential role of Cp190 in physical and regulatory boundary formation. 	Essential role of Cp190 in physical and regulatory boundary formation in Drosophila	Drosophila, development, genome architecture	Boundaries in animal genomes delimit contact domains with enhanced internal contact frequencies and have debated functions in limiting regulatory cross-talk between domains and guiding enhancers to target promoters. Most mammalian boundaries form by stalling of chromosomal loop-extruding cohesin by CTCF, but most Drosophila boundaries form CTCF independently. However, how CTCF-independent boundaries form and function remains largely unexplored. Here, we assess genome folding and developmental gene expression in fly embryos lacking the ubiquitous boundary-associated factor Cp190. We find that sequence-specific DNA binding proteins such as CTCF and Su(Hw) directly interact with and recruit Cp190 to form most promoter-distal boundaries. Cp190 is essential for early development and prevents regulatory cross-talk between specific gene loci that pattern the embryo. Cp190 was, in contrast, dispensable for long-range enhancer-promoter communication at tested loci. Cp190 is thus currently the major player in fly boundary formation and function, revealing that diverse mechanisms evolved to partition genomes into independent regulatory domains.
PXD023303	35559835	Increased lipid peroxidation by graphene quantum dots induces ferroptosis in macrophages. 	Down-regulated Glutathione Peroxidase-4 by Graphene Quantum Dots Inducing Ferroptosis in Macrophages	Graphene quantum dots, glutathione peroxidase 4(GPx4)	Graphene quantum dots (GQDs) are an excellent tool for theranostics, and are widely used in nanomedical applications. The biosafety of GQDs has received abundant attention, but their latent toxicological mechanisms remain inadequately understood. To investigate the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying graphene-mediated changes, quantitative proteomics and untargeted lipidomics were integrated. We discovered that glutathione peroxidase 4 as a key regulator of ferroptosis, was down-regulated at the protein level by GQDs. Lipidomics profiling with features of ferroptosis was identified in GQDs-treated RAW264.7 macrophages. Furthermore, GQDs exposure was associated with reduced levels of GSH and increased lipid peroxidation. Overexpression of GPX4 in RAW264.7 cells and pre-treatment of a ferroptosis inhibitor Ferrostatin-1 (Fer-1) not only suppressed cell death, but also alleviated lipid peroxidation. Taken together, our results indicated that GQDs exposure induced ferroptosis in RAW264.7 macrophages, and provided essential data for biosafety evaluations of GQDs.
PXD026644	35559953	Quantitative glycoproteomics of human milk and association with atopic disease. 	Quantitative glycoproteomics of human milk and their association with atopic disease	Milk, N-glycoproteins	The prevalence of allergic diseases and asthma is increasing rapidly worldwide, with environmental and lifestyle behaviors implicated as a reason. Epidemiological studies have shown that children who grow up on farms are at lower risk of developing childhood atopic disease, indicating the presence of a protective "farm effect". The Old Order Mennonite (OOM) community in Upstate New York have traditional, agrarian lifestyles, a low rate of atopic disease, and long periods of exclusive breastfeeding. Human milk proteins are heavily glycosylated, although there is a paucity of studies investigating the milk glycoproteome. In this study, we have used quantitative glycoproteomics to compare the N-glycoprotein profiles of 54 milk samples from Rochester urban/suburban and OOM mothers, two populations with different lifestyles, exposures, and risk of atopic disease. We also compared N-glycoprotein profiles according to the presence or absence of atopic disease in the mothers and, separately, the children. We identified 79 N-glycopeptides from 15 different proteins and found that proteins including immunoglobulin A1, polymeric immunoglobulin receptor, and lactotransferrin displayed significant glycan heterogeneity. We found that the abundances of 38 glycopeptides differed significantly between Rochester and OOM mothers and also identified four glycopeptides with significantly different abundances between all comparisons. These four glycopeptides may be associated with the development of atopic disease. The findings of this study suggest that the differential glycosylation of milk proteins could be linked to atopic disease.
PXD031694	35561848	Proteome reallocation enables the selective de novo biosynthesis of non-linear, branched-chain acetate esters. 	Proteome reallocation enables the selective de novo biosynthesis of non-linear, branched-chain acetate esters	ester biosynthesis, isoamyl acetate, metabolic burden, pathway selectivity, proteome reallocation	The one-carbon recursive ketoacid elongation pathway is responsible for making various branched-chain amino acids, aldehydes, alcohols, ketoacids, and acetate esters in living cells. Controlling selective microbial biosynthesis of these target molecules at high efficiency is challenging due to enzyme promiscuity, regulation, and metabolic burden. In this study, we present a systematic modular design approach to control proteome reallocation for selective microbial biosynthesis of branched-chain acetate esters. Through pathway modularization, we partitioned the branched-chain ester pathways into four submodules including ketoisovalerate submodule for converting pyruvate to ketoisovalerate, ketoacid elongation submodule for producing longer carbon-chain ketoacids, ketoacid decarboxylase submodule for converting ketoacids to alcohols, and alcohol acyltransferase submodule for producing branched-chain acetate esters by condensing alcohols and acetyl-CoA. By systematic manipulation of pathway gene replication and transcription, enzyme specificity of the first committed steps of these submodules, and downstream competing pathways, we demonstrated selective microbial production of isoamyl acetate over isobutyl acetate. We found that the optimized isoamyl acetate pathway globally redistributed the amino acid fractions in the proteomes and required up to 23-31% proteome reallocation at the expense of other cellular resources, such as those required to generate precursor metabolites and energy for growth and amino acid biosynthesis. From glucose fed-batch fermentation, the engineered strains produced isoamyl acetate up to a titer of 8.8 g/L (>0.25 g/L toxicity limit), a yield of 0.22 g/g (61% of maximal theoretical value), and 86% selectivity, achieving the highest titers, yields and selectivity of isoamyl acetate reported to date.
PXD033198	35562374	Mechanical instability generated by Myosin 19 contributes to mitochondria cristae architecture and OXPHOS. 	Myo19 Interacting Proteins IP-MS	Myo19 IP-MS	The folded mitochondria inner membrane-cristae is the structural foundation for oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and energy production. By mechanically simulating mitochondria morphogenesis, we speculate that efficient sculpting of the cristae is organelle non-autonomous. It has long been inferred that folding requires buckling in living systems. However, the tethering force for cristae formation and regulation has not been identified. Combining electron tomography, proteomics strategies, super resolution live cell imaging and mathematical modeling, we reveal that the mitochondria localized actin motor-myosin 19 (Myo19) is critical for maintaining cristae structure, by associating with the SAM-MICOS super complex. We discover that depletion of Myo19 or disruption of its motor activity leads to altered mitochondria membrane potential and decreased OXPHOS. We propose that Myo19 may act as a mechanical tether for effective ridging of the mitochondria cristae, thus sustaining the energy homeostasis essential for various cellular functions.
PXD032844	35563452	Novel Antibody-Peptide Binding Assay Indicates Presence of Immunoglobulins against EGFR Phospho-Site S1166 in High-Grade Glioma. 	Novel antibody-peptide binding assay indicates presence of immunoglobulins against EGFR phospho-site S1166 in high-grade glioma.	Melon Gel, autoantibodies, glioblastoma, immunoglobulin G, peptide antigen	We investigated the feasibility of detecting the presence of specific autoantibodies against potential tumor-associated peptide antigens by enriching these antibody-peptide complexes using Melon Gel resin and mass spectrometry. Our goal was to find tumor-associated phospho-sites that trigger immunoreactions and raise autoantibodies that are detectable in plasma of glioma patients. Such immunoglobulins can potentially be used as targets in immunotherapy. To that aim, we describe a method to detect the presence of antibodies in biological samples that are specific to selected clinically relevant peptides. The method is based on the formation of antibody-peptide complexes by mixing patient plasma with a glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) derived peptide library, enrichment of antibodies and antibody-peptide complexes, the separation of peptides after they are released from immunoglobulins by molecular weight filtration and finally mass spectrometric quantification of these peptides. As proof of concept, we successfully applied the method to dinitrophenyl (DNP)-labeled alpha-casein peptides mixed with anti-DNP. Further, we incubated human plasma with a phospho-peptide library and conducted targeted analysis on EGFR and GFAP phospho-peptides. As a result, immunoaffinity against phospho-peptide GSHQIS[+80]LDNPDYQQDFFPK (EGFR phospho-site S1166) was detected in high-grade glioma (HGG) patient plasma but not in healthy donor plasma. For the GFAP phospho-sites selected, such immunoaffinity was not observed.
PXD015393	35563518	Phosphoproteomics Unravel HBV Triggered Rewiring of Host Phosphosignaling Events. 	Phosphoproteome profiling unravels rewiring of chromatin organization factors in host cells upon HBV infection	Chromatin remodelling, HBV host response, Hepatitis B virus, Phosphoproteome	Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection persists as a major global health problem despite the availability of HBV vaccines for disease prevention. However, vaccination rates remains low in some regions of the world, driving the need for novel strategies to minimise infections and prevent disease progression. Thus, understanding of perturbed molecular signaling events during early phases of HBV infection is required. Phosphosignaling is known to be involved in the HBV infection processes, yet systems-level changes in phosphosignaling pathways in the host during infection remain unclear. To this end, we performed phosphoproteome profiling on HBV-infected HepG2-NTCP cells. Our results showed that HBV infection drastically altered the host phosphoproteome and its associated proteins, including kinases. Computational analysis of this phosphoproteome revealed dysregulation of the pathways involved in immune responses, cell cycle processes, and RNA processing during HBV infection. Kinase Substrate Enrichment Analysis (KSEA) identified the dysregulated activities of important kinases, including those from CMGC (CDK, MAPK, GSK, and CLK), AGC (protein kinase A, G, and C), and TK (Tyrosine Kinase) families. Of note, the inhibition of CLKs significantly reduced HBV infection in HepG2-NTCP cells. In all, our study unravelled the aberrated phosphosignaling pathways and the associated kinases, presenting potential entry points for developing novel therapeutic strategies for HBV treatment.
PXD022868	35563635	Multiomic Profiling Identified EGF Receptor Signaling as a Potential Inhibitor of Type I Interferon Response in Models of Oncolytic Therapy by Vesicular Stomatitis Virus. 	Comparative proteomics for identifying specific alterations within interferon response pathways in human glioblastoma multiforme and osteosarcoma cells	JAK/STAT pathway, Shotgun proteomics, glioblastoma multiforme, interferon signaling alterations, oncolytic virotherapy	Cancer cell lines responded differentially to type I interferon treatment in models of oncolytic therapy using vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV). Two opposite cases were considered in this study, glioblastoma DBTRG-05MG and osteosarcoma HOS cell lines exhibiting resistance and sensitivity to VSV after the treatment, respectively. Type I interferon responses were compared for these cell lines by integrative analysis of the transcriptome, proteome, and RNA editome to identify molecular factors determining differential effects observed. Adenosine-to-inosine RNA editing was equally induced in both cell lines. However, transcriptome analysis showed that the number of differentially expressed genes was much higher in DBTRG-05MG with a specific enrichment in inflammatory proteins. Further, it was found that two genes, EGFR and HER2, were overexpressed in HOS cells compared with DBTRG-05MG, supporting recent reports that EGF receptor signaling attenuates interferon responses via HER2 co-receptor activity. Accordingly, combined treatment of cells with EGF receptor inhibitors such as gefitinib and type I interferon increases the resistance of sensitive cell lines to VSV. Moreover, sensitive cell lines had increased levels of HER2 protein compared with non-sensitive DBTRG-05MG. Presumably, the level of this protein expression in tumor cells might be a predictive biomarker of their resistance to oncolytic viral therapy.
PXD033683	35563680	Short-Term Blockade of Pro-Inflammatory Alarmin S100A9 Favorably Modulates Left Ventricle Proteome and Related Signaling Pathways Involved in Post-Myocardial Infarction Recovery. 	Short-term blockade of pro-inflammatory alarmin S100A9 fa-vorably modulates left ventricle proteome and related signaling pathways involved in post - myocardial infarction recovery	S100A9, apoptosis, cardiac repair, hypertrophy, myocardial infarction	Prognosis after myocardial infarction (MI) varies greatly depending on the extent of damaged area and the management of biological processes during recovery. Reportedly, the inhibition of the pro-inflammatory S100A9 reduces myocardial damage after MI. We hypothesize that a S100A9 blockade induces changes of major signaling pathways implicated in post-MI healing. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics and gene analyses of infarcted mice left ventricle were performed. The S100A9 blocker (ABR-23890) was given for 3 days after coronary ligation. At 3 and 7 days post-MI, ventricle samples were analyzed versus control and Sham-operated mice. Blockade of S100A9 modulated the expressed proteins involved in five biological processes: leukocyte cell-cell adhesion, regulation of the muscle cell apoptotic process, regulation of the intrinsic apoptotic signaling pathway, sarcomere organization and cardiac muscle hypertrophy. The blocker induced regulation of 36 proteins interacting with or targeted by the cellular tumor antigen p53, prevented myocardial compensatory hypertrophy, and reduced cardiac markers of post-ischemic stress. The blockade effect was prominent at day 7 post-MI when the quantitative features of the ventricle proteome were closer to controls. Blockade of S100A9 restores key biological processes altered post-MI. These processes could be valuable new pharmacological targets for the treatment of ischemic heart. Mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD033683.
PXD030966	35563714	Human Wharton's Jelly Mesenchymal Stem Cells Secretome Inhibits Human SARS-CoV-2 and Avian Infectious Bronchitis Coronaviruses. 	Human Wharton's jelly mesenchymal stem cells secretome inhibits human SARS-CoV-2 and avian IBV coronaviruses	LCMSMS, Proteomcis, SARS-CoV-2, mesenchymal stem cells	Human SARS-CoV-2 and avian infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) are highly contagious and deadly coronaviruses, causing devastating respiratory diseases in humans and chickens. The lack of effective therapeutics exacerbates the impact of outbreaks associated with SARS-CoV-2 and IBV infections. Thus, novel drugs or therapeutic agents are highly in demand for controlling viral transmission and disease progression. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) secreted factors (secretome) are safe and efficient alternatives to stem cells in MSC-based therapies. This study aimed to investigate the antiviral potentials of human Wharton's jelly MSC secretome (hWJ-MSC-S) against SARS-CoV-2 and IBV infections in vitro and in ovo. The half-maximal inhibitory concentrations (IC50), cytotoxic concentration (CC50), and selective index (SI) values of hWJ-MSC-S were determined using Vero-E6 cells. The virucidal, anti-adsorption, and anti-replication antiviral mechanisms of hWJ-MSC-S were evaluated. The hWJ-MSC-S significantly inhibited infection of SARS-CoV-2 and IBV, without affecting the viability of cells and embryos. Interestingly, hWJ-MSC-S reduced viral infection by >90%, in vitro. The IC50 and SI of hWJ-MSC secretome against SARS-CoV-2 were 166.6 and 235.29 microg/mL, respectively, while for IBV, IC50 and SI were 439.9 and 89.11 microg/mL, respectively. The virucidal and anti-replication antiviral effects of hWJ-MSC-S were very prominent compared to the anti-adsorption effect. In the in ovo model, hWJ-MSC-S reduced IBV titer by >99%. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS-MS) analysis of hWJ-MSC-S revealed a significant enrichment of immunomodulatory and antiviral proteins. Collectively, our results not only uncovered the antiviral potency of hWJ-MSC-S against SARS-CoV-2 and IBV, but also described the mechanism by which hWJ-MSC-S inhibits viral infection. These findings indicate that hWJ-MSC-S could be utilized in future pre-clinical and clinical studies to develop effective therapeutic approaches against human COVID-19 and avian IB respiratory diseases.
PXD008949	35563885	Proteomic, Biochemical, and Morphological Analyses of the Effect of Silver Nanoparticles Mixed with Organic and Inorganic Chemicals on Wheat Growth. 	TK02_TK04: Proteomic and Biochemical Analyses of the Effect of Organic and Inorganic Chemicals with Silver Nanoparticles on Wheat Growth	chemicals, silver nanoparticles, wheat	Wheat is vulnerable to numerous diseases; on the other hand, silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) exhibit a sterilizing action. To understand the combined effects of AgNPs with nicotinate and potassium nitrate (KNO3) for plant growth and sterilization, a gel- and label-free proteomics was performed. Root weight was promoted by the treatment of AgNPs mixed with nicotinate and KNO3. From a total of 5557 detected proteins, 90 proteins were changed by the mixture of AgNPs, nicotinate, and KNO3; among them, 25 and 65 proteins increased and decreased, respectively. The changed proteins were mainly associated with redox and biotic stress in the functional categorization. By immunoblot analysis, the abundance of glutathione reductase/peroxiredoxin and pathogen-related protein three significantly decreased with the mixture. Furthermore, from the changed proteins, the abundance of starch synthase and lipoxygenase significantly increased and decreased, respectively. Through biochemical analysis, the starch contents increased with the mixture. The application of esculetin, which is a lipoxygenase inhibitor, increased the weight and length of the root. These results suggest that the AgNPs mixed with nicotinate and KNO3 cause positive effects on wheat seedlings by regulating pathogen-related protein and reactive-oxygen species scavenging. Furthermore, increasing starch and decreasing lipoxygenase might improve wheat growth.
PXD031676	35565272	Skin Cancer-Associated S. aureus Strains Can Induce DNA Damage in Human Keratinocytes by Downregulating DNA Repair and Promoting Oxidative Stress. 	Skin cancer-associated S. aureus downregulates DNA repair mechanisms, and promotes oxidative stress and DNA damage in human keratinocytes	DNA damage, S. aureus secretome, Skin, actinic keratosis, multiomics, squamous cell carcinoma	Actinic keratosis (AK) is a premalignant lesion, common on severely photodamaged skin, that can progress over time to cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). A high bacterial load of Staphylococcus aureus is associated with AK and SCC, but it is unknown whether this has a direct impact on skin cancer development. To determine whether S. aureus can have cancer-promoting effects on skin cells, we performed RNA sequencing and shotgun proteomics on primary human keratinocytes after challenge with sterile culture supernatant ('secretome') from four S. aureus clinical strains isolated from AK and SCC. Secretomes of two of the S. aureus strains induced keratinocytes to overexpress biomarkers associated with skin carcinogenesis and upregulated the expression of enzymes linked to reduced skin barrier function. Further, these strains induced oxidative stress markers and all secretomes downregulated DNA repair mechanisms. Subsequent experiments on an expanded set of lesion-associated S. aureus strains confirmed that exposure to their secretomes led to increased oxidative stress and DNA damage in primary human keratinocytes. A significant correlation between the concentration of S. aureus phenol soluble modulin toxins in secretome and the secretome-induced level of oxidative stress and genotoxicity in keratinocytes was observed. Taken together, these data demonstrate that secreted compounds from lesion-associated clinical isolates of S. aureus can have cancer-promoting effects in keratinocytes that may be relevant to skin oncogenesis.
PXD032819	35565298	Arginine Methyltransferase PRMT7 Deregulates Expression of RUNX1 Target Genes in T-Cell Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. 	MS-based arginine monomethylation study in Jurkat PRMT7 KO cells	Jurkat, PRMT7, T-ALL, arginine monomethylation	T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) is an aggressive hematological malignancy with no well-established prognostic biomarkers. We examined the expression of protein arginine methyltransferases across hematological malignancies and discovered high levels of PRMT7 mRNA in T-ALL, particularly in the mature subtypes of T-ALL. The genetic deletion of PRMT7 by CRISPR-Cas9 reduced the colony formation of T-ALL cells and changed arginine monomethylation patterns in protein complexes associated with the RNA and DNA processing and the T-ALL pathogenesis. Among them was RUNX1, whose target gene expression was consequently deregulated. These results suggest that PRMT7 plays an active role in the pathogenesis of T-ALL.
PXD025403	35568198	Molecular basis for coordinating secondary metabolite production by bacterial and plant signaling molecules. 	Molecular basis for coordinating secondary metabolite production by bacterial and plant signaling molecules	2, 4-DAPG, Pseudomonas fluorescens, secondary metabolite	The production of secondary metabolites is a major mechanism used by beneficial rhizobacteria to antagonize plant pathogens. These bacteria have evolved to coordinate the production of different secondary metabolites due to the heavy metabolic burden imposed by secondary metabolism. However, for most secondary metabolites produced by bacteria, it is not known how their biosynthesis is coordinated. Here, we showed that PhlH from the rhizobacterium Pseudomonas fluorescens is a TetR-family regulator coordinating the expression of enzymes related to the biosynthesis of several secondary metabolites, including 2,4-diacetylphloroglucinol (2,4-DAPG), mupirocin, and pyoverdine. We present structures of PhlH in both its apo form and 2,4-DAPG-bound form and elucidate its ligand-recognizing and allosteric switching mechanisms. Moreover, we found that dissociation of 2,4-DAPG from the ligand-binding domain of PhlH was sufficient to allosterically trigger a pendulum-like movement of the DNA-binding domains within the PhlH dimer, leading to a closed-to-open conformational transition. Finally, molecular dynamics simulations confirmed that two distinct conformational states were stabilized by specific hydrogen bonding interactions and that disruption of these hydrogen bonds had profound effects on the conformational transition. Our findings not only reveal a well-conserved route of allosteric signal transduction in TetR-family regulators but also provide novel mechanistic insights into bacterial metabolic coregulation.
PXD024226	35568694	Mammalian eIF4E2-GSK3beta maintains basal phosphorylation of p53 to resist senescence under hypoxia. 	eIF4E2 regulates GSK3b kinase activity	GSK3b, eIF4E2, phosphorylation	Hypoxia modulates senescence, but their physiological link remains unclear. Here, we found that eIF4E2, a hypoxia-activated translation initiation factor, interacted with GSK3beta to maintain phosphorylation of p53, thus resisting senescence under hypoxia. RNA-binding protein RBM38 interacted with eIF4E to inhibit the translation of p53, but GSK3beta-mediated Ser195 phosphorylation disrupted the RBM38-eIF4E interaction. Through investigation of RBM38 phosphorylation, we found that the eIF4E2-GSK3beta pathway specifically regulated proline-directed serine/threonine phosphorylation (S/T-P). Importantly, peptides e2-I or G3-I that blocking eIF4E2-GSK3beta interaction can inhibit the basal S/T-P phosphorylation of p53 at multiple sites, therby inducing senescence through transcriptional inhibition. Additionally, a nanobody was screened via the domain where eIF4E2 bound to GSK3beta, and this nanobody inhibited S/T-P phosphorylation to promote senescence. Furthermore, hypoxia inhibited eIF4E2-GSK3beta pathway by mediating S-Nitrosylation of GSK3beta. Blocking eIF4E2-GSK3beta interaction promoted liver senescence under hypoxia, thus leading to liver fibrosis, eventually accelerating N, N-diethylnitrosamine (DEN)-induced tumorigenesis. Interestingly, eIF4E2 isoforms with GSK3beta-binding motif exclusively exist in mammals, which protect zebrafish heart against hypoxia. Together, this study reveals a mammalian eIF4E2-GSK3beta pathway that prevents senescence by maintaining basal S/T-P phosphorylation of p53, which underlies hypoxia adaptation of tissues.
PXD030025	35568798	2D-DIGE based proteome analysis of wheat-Thinopyrum intermedium 7XL/7DS translocation line under drought stress. 	Proteomic analysis of developing grains in the wheat  under drought stress	2D-DIGE, 7XL/7DS translocation, Drought tolerance, Grain proteome, Wheat	BACKGROUND: Drought stress is the most limiting factor for plant growth and crop production worldwide. As a major cereal crop, wheat is susceptible to drought. Thus, discovering and utilizing drought-tolerant gene resources from related species are highly important for improving wheat drought resistance. In this study, the drought tolerance of wheat Zhongmai 8601-Thinopyrum intermedium 7XL/7DS translocation line YW642 was estimated under drought stress, and then two-dimensional difference gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE) based proteome analysis of the developing grains was performed to uncover the drought-resistant proteins. RESULTS: The results showed that 7XL/7DS translocation possessed a better drought-tolerance compared to Zhongmai 8601. 2D-DIGE identified 146 differential accumulation protein (DAP) spots corresponding to 113 unique proteins during five grain developmental stages of YW642 under drought stress. Among them, 55 DAP spots corresponding to 48 unique proteins displayed an upregulated expression, which were mainly involved in stress/defense, energy metabolism, starch metabolism, protein metabolism/folding and transport. The cis-acting element analysis revealed that abundant stress-related elements were present in the promoter regions of the drought-responsive protein genes, which could play important roles in drought defense. RNA-seq and RT-qPCR analyses revealed that some regulated DAP genes also showed a high expression level in response to drought stress. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicated that Wheat-Th. intermedium 7XL/7DS translocation line carried abundant drought-resistant proteins that had potential application values for wheat drought tolerance improvement.
PXD032287	35571066	Label-free Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Cerebrospinal Fluid and Serum in Patients With Relapse-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis. 	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Cerebrospinal Fluid and Serum in Patients with Relapse-remitting Multiple Sclerosis	biomarker, cerebrospinal fluid, diagnosis, label free proteomics, relapse-remitting multiple sclerosis, serum	Background: The lack of effective serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers remains a barrier to early diagnosis and treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS). The study is to identify the diagnostic biomarkers of serum and CSF in patients who suffered MS. Methods: At first, we performed differential analysis of CSF and serum proteomics on control and relapse-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) patients. Secondly, CSF and serum's differential proteins were compared, in order to identify the significative proteins. Finally, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and Gene Ontology (GO) analysis were performed on the differential proteins in serum and CSF respectively to clarify their common biological functions and pathways. Results: At the first step, in CSF, 73 proteins were significantly differentially expressed in the RRMS set compared with the controls. In serum, 22 proteins were differentially expressed. Secondly, we found MMP2 C8G and CFH were the same high expression trend in CSF and serum. Finally, we found the differential proteins in serum and CSF are mostly participated in biological processes: immuno-inflammatory response, neuronal development, cell adhesion and signaling. Conclusion: MMP2, C8G and CFH may participate in the pathogenesis of RRMS, which are the potential diagnostic biomarkers of the disease.
PXD028212	35573732	Nascent Glycoproteome Reveals That N-Linked Glycosylation Inhibitor-1 Suppresses Expression of Glycosylated Lysosome-Associated Membrane Protein-2. 	Nascent glycoproteome reveal the suppressed expression of glycosylated LAMP2 in response to N-linked glycosylation inhibition	Glycosylation, LAMP2, Lysosome, NGI-1, Nascent proteomes	Glycosylation inhibition has great potential in cancer treatment. However, the corresponding cellular response, protein expression and glycosylation changes remain unclear. As a cell-permeable small-molecule inhibitor with reduced cellular toxicity, N-linked glycosylation inhibitor-1 (NGI-1) has become a great approach to regulate glycosylation in mammalian cells. Here for the first time, we applied a nascent proteomic method to investigate the effect of NGI-1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cell line. Besides, hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC) was adopted for the enrichment of glycosylated peptides. Glycoproteomic analysis revealed the abundance of glycopeptides from LAMP2, NICA, and CEIP2 was significantly changed during NGI-1 treatment. Moreover, the alterations of LAMP2 site-specific intact N-glycopeptides were comprehensively assessed. NGI-1 treatment also led to the inhibition of Cathepsin D maturation and the induction of autophagy. In summary, we provided evidence that NGI-1 repressed the expression of glycosylated LAMP2 accompanied with the occurrence of lysosomal defects and autophagy.
PXD031236	35574073	Tetraploidy in Citrus wilsonii Enhances Drought Tolerance via Synergistic Regulation of Photosynthesis, Phosphorylation, and Hormonal Changes. 	Phosphoproteomic analyses the tetraploid Citrus wilsonii enhanced drought tolerance	Citrus, Drought stress, Phosphorylation, Tetrploid	Polyploidy varieties have been reported to exhibit higher stress tolerance relative to their diploid relatives, however, the underlying molecular and physiological mechanisms remain poorly understood. In this study, a batch of autotetraploid Citrus wilsonii were identified from a natural seedling population, and these tetraploid seedlings exhibited greater tolerance to drought stress than their diploids siblings. A global transcriptome analysis revealed that a large number of genes involved in photosynthesis response were enriched in tetraploids under drought stress, which was consistent with the changes in photosynthetic indices including Pn, gs, Tr, Ci, and chlorophyll contents. Compared with diploids, phosphorylation was also modified in the tetraploids after drought stress, as detected through tandem mass tag (TMT)-labeled proteomics. Additionally, tetraploids prioritized the regulation of plant hormone signal transduction at the transcriptional level after drought stress, which was also demonstrated by increased levels of IAA, ABA, and SA and reduced levels of GA3 and JA. Collectively, our results confirmed that the synergistic regulation of photosynthesis response, phosphorylation modification and plant hormone signaling resulted in drought tolerance of autotetraploid C. wilsonii germplasm.
PXD028624	35574122	Proteomics and Co-expression Network Analysis Reveal the Importance of Hub Proteins and Metabolic Pathways in Nicotine Synthesis and Accumulation in Tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum L.). 	Data indpendent acquisition (DIA) proteomics Analysis of Tobacco Root Tip	Data indpendent acquisition, Hybrids and parental, Nicotiana tabacum, Root	Nicotine is a unique alkaloid present in tobacco that is widely used in cigarettes and in the agricultural, chemical, and pharmaceutical industries. However, the research on nicotine is mostly limited to its synthesis pathways, and only a few studies have explored the effects of other metabolic pathways on nicotine precursors. Regulating the nicotine content in tobacco can greatly promoting the application of nicotine in other fields. In this study, we performed global data-independent acquisition proteomics analysis of four tobacco varieties. Of the four varieties, one had high nicotine content and three had a low nicotine content. A total of 31,259 distinct peptides and 6,018 proteins across two samples were identified. A total of 45 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) co-existed in the three comparison groups and were mainly involved in the transport and metallic processes of the substances. Most DEPs were enriched in the biosynthesis of secondary metals, glutathione metabolism, carbon metabolism, and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis. In addition, the weighted gene co-expression network analysis identified an expression module closely related to the nicotine content (Brown, r = 0.74, P = 0.006). Gene Ontology annotation and Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analysis showed that the module proteins were mainly involved in the synthesis and metabolism of nicotine precursors such as arginine, ornithine aspartate, proline, and glutathione. The increased levels of these precursors lead to the synthesis and accumulation of nicotine in plants. More importantly, these proteins regulate nicotine synthesis by affecting the formation of putrescine, which is the core intermediate product in nicotine anabolism. Our results provide a reference for tobacco variety selection with a suitable nicotine content and regulation of the nicotine content. Additionally, the results highlight the importance of other precursor metabolism in nicotine synthesis.
PXD030222	35574395	Multi-Omic Profiling of Multi-Biosamples Reveals the Role of Amino Acid and Nucleotide Metabolism in Endometrial Cancer. 	Multi-omic Profiling of Multi-Biosamples Reveals the Role of Amino Acid and Nucleotide Metabolism in Endometrial Cancer	Endometrial cancer, tissue	Background: Endometrial cancer (EC) is one of the most common gynecological cancers. The traditional diagnosis of EC relies on histopathology, which, however, is invasive and may arouse tumor spread. There have been many studies aiming to find the metabolomic biomarkers of EC to improve the early diagnosis of cancer in a non-invasive or minimally invasive way, which can also provide valuable information for understanding the disease. However, most of these studies only analyze a single type of sample by metabolomics, and cannot provide a comprehensive view of the altered metabolism in EC patients. Our study tries to gain a pathway-based view of multiple types of samples for understanding metabolomic disorders in EC by combining metabolomics and proteomics. Methods: Forty-four EC patients and forty-three controls were recruited for the research. We collected endometrial tissue, urine, and intrauterine brushing samples. Untargeted metabolomics and untargeted proteomics were both performed on the endometrial tissue samples, while only untargeted metabolomics was performed on the urine and intrauterine brushing samples. Results: By integrating the differential metabolites and proteins between EC patients and controls detected in the endometrial tissue samples, we identified several EC-related significant pathways, such as amino acid metabolism and nucleotide metabolism. The significance of these pathways and the potential of metabolite biomarker-based diagnosis were then further verified by using urine and intrauterine brushing samples. It was found that the regulation of metabolites involved in the significant pathways showed similar trends in the intrauterine brushings and the endometrial tissue samples, while opposite trends in the urine and the endometrial tissue samples. Conclusions: With multi-omics characterization of multi-biosamples, the metabolomic changes related to EC are illustrated in a pathway-based way. The network of altered metabolites and related proteins provides a comprehensive view of altered metabolism in the endometrial tissue samples. The verification of these critical pathways by using urine and intrauterine brushing samples provides evidence for the possible non-invasive or minimally invasive biopsy for EC diagnosis in the future.
PXD027314	35574494	Juvenile Hormone Membrane Signaling Enhances its Intracellular Signaling Through Phosphorylation of Met and Hsp83. 	Juvenile hormone membrane signaling phosphorylates Hsp83 and promotes Met nuclear import	Hsp83, Met, juvenile hormone	Juvenile hormone (JH) regulates insect development and reproduction through both intracellular and membrane signaling, and the two pathways might crosstalk with each other. Recent studies have reported that JH membrane signaling induces phosphorylation of the JH intracellular receptor Met, thus enhancing its transcriptional activity. To gain more insights into JH-induced Met phosphorylation, we here performed phosphoproteomics to identify potential phosphorylation sites of Met and its paralog Germ-cell expressed (Gce) in Drosophila Kc cells. In vitro experiments demonstrate that JH-induced phosphorylation sites in the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) domain, but not in the Per-Arnt-Sim-B (PAS-B) domain, are required for maximization of Met transcriptional activity. Moreover, phosphoproteomics analysis reveale that JH also induces the phosphorylation of Hsp83, a chaperone protein involved in JH-activated Met nuclear import. The JH-induced Hsp83 phosphorylation at S219 facilitates Hsp83-Met binding, thus promoting Met nuclear import and its transcription. By using proteomics, subcellular distribution, and co-immunoprecipitation approaches, we further characterized 14-3-3 proteins as negative regulators of Met nuclear import through physical interaction with Hsp83. These results show that JH membrane signaling induces phosphorylation of the key components in JH intracellular signaling, such as Met and Hsp83, and consequently facilitating JH intracellular signaling.
PXD057418	35576643	The heart-brain axis: A proteomics study of meditation on the cardiovascular system of Tibetan Monks. 	Systematic Proteomics Revealed The mechanism of How Long-term Tibetan Buddhist Meditation Enhanced Cardiovascular Protection	CD5L, Tibetan Buddhist meditation, cardiovascular protection, data independent acquisition and parallel reaction monitoring proteomics	BACKGROUND: There have been mixed reports on the beneficial effects of meditation in cardiovascular disease (CVD), which is widely considered the leading cause of death worldwide. METHODS: To clarify the role of meditation in modulating the heart-brain axis, we implemented an extreme phenotype strategy, i.e., Tibetan monks (BMI > 30) who practised 19.20 +/- 7.82 years of meditation on average and their strictly matched non-meditative Tibetan controls. Hypothesis-free advanced proteomics strategies (Data Independent Acquisition and Targeted Parallel Reaction Monitoring) were jointly applied to systematically investigate and target the plasma proteome underlying meditation. Total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol  (LDL-C), apolipoprotein B (Apo B) and lipoprotein (a) [Lp(a)] as the potential cardiovascular risk factors were evaluated. Heart rate variability (HRV) was assessed by electrocardiogram. FINDINGS: Obesity, hypertension, and reduced HRV is offset by long-term meditation. Notably, meditative monks have blood pressure and HRV comparable to their matched Tibetan controls. Meditative monks have a protective plasma proteome, related to decreased atherosclerosis, enhanced glycolysis, and oxygen release, that confers resilience to the development of CVD. In addition, clinical risk factors in plasma were significantly decreased in monks compared with controls, including total cholesterol, LDL-C, Apo B, and Lp(a). INTERPRETATION: To our knowledge, this work is the first well-controlled proteomics investigation of long-term meditation, which opens up a window for individuals characterized by a sedentary lifestyle to improve their cardiovascular health with an accessible method practised for more than two millennia. FUNDING: See the Acknowledgements section.
PXD040258	35577096	Mechanistic insights into phenanthrene acropetal translocation via wheat xylem: Separation and identification of transfer proteins. 	Identification of phenanthrene transfer proteins in soybeanxylem sap	Glycine max, protein, xylem sap	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) have the potential to cause cancer, teratogenicity, and mutagenesis in humans. Long-term plant safe production relies on how PAHs are transported and coordinated across organs. However, the acropetal transfer mechanism of PAHs in staple crop stems, particularly in xylem, a critical path, is unknown. Herein, we first confirmed the presence of specific interaction between the proteins and phenanthrene by employing the magnetic phenanthrene-bound bead immunoassay and label free liquid chromatograph mass spectrometer (LC-MS/MS), suggesting that peroxidase (uniprot accession: A0A3B5XXD0) and unidentified proteins (uniprot accession: A0A3B6LUC6) may function as the carriers to load and acropetally translocate phenanthrene (a model PAH) in wheat xylem. This specified binding of protein-phenanthrene may form through hydrophobic interactions in the conservative binding region, as revealed by protein structural investigations and molecular docking. To further investigate the role of these proteins in phenanthrene solubilization, phenanthrene exposure was conducted: a substantial quantity of peroxidase was produced; an unusually high expression of uncharacterized proteins was observed, indicating their positive effects in the acropetal transfer of phenanthrene in wheat xylem. These data confirmed that the two proteins are crucial in the solubilization of phenanthrene in wheat xylem sap. Our findings provide fresh light on the molecular mechanism of PAH loading in plant xylem and techniques for ensuring the security of staple crops and improving the efficacy of phytoremediation in a PAH-contaminated environment.
PXD027175	35577770	Mitochondria preserve an autarkic one-carbon cycle to confer growth-independent cancer cell migration and metastasis. 	Mitochondrial One-Carbon Flux has a Growth-Independent Role in Promoting Breast Cancer Metastasis	cancer, formate, metastasis	Metastasis is the most common cause of death in cancer patients. Canonical drugs target mainly the proliferative capacity of cancer cells, which leaves slow-proliferating, persistent cancer cells unaffected. Metabolic determinants that contribute to growth-independent functions are still poorly understood. Here we show that antifolate treatment results in an uncoupled and autarkic mitochondrial one-carbon (1C) metabolism during cytosolic 1C metabolism impairment. Interestingly, antifolate dependent growth-arrest does not correlate with decreased migration capacity. Therefore, using methotrexate as a tool compound allows us to disentangle proliferation and migration to profile the metabolic phenotype of migrating cells. We observe that increased serine de novo synthesis (SSP) supports mitochondrial serine catabolism and inhibition of SSP using the competitive PHGDH-inhibitor BI-4916 reduces cancer cell migration. Furthermore, we show that sole inhibition of mitochondrial serine catabolism does not affect primary breast tumor growth but strongly inhibits pulmonary metastasis. We conclude that mitochondrial 1C metabolism, despite being dispensable for proliferative capacities, confers an advantage to cancer cells by supporting their motility potential.
PXD027722	35579278	Dynamic human liver proteome atlas reveals functional insights into disease pathways. 	Dynamic human liver proteome atlas reveals functional insights into disease pathways	NASH, atlas, cirrhosis, liver, liver disease, primary cell culture	Deeper understanding of liver pathophysiology would benefit from a comprehensive quantitative proteome resource at cell type resolution to predict outcome and design therapy. Here, we quantify more than 150,000 sequence-unique peptides aggregated into 10,000 proteins across total liver, the major liver cell types, time course of primary cell cultures, and liver disease states. Bioinformatic analysis reveals that half of hepatocyte protein mass is comprised of enzymes and 23% of mitochondrial proteins, twice the proportion of other liver cell types. Using primary cell cultures, we capture dynamic proteome remodeling from tissue states to cell line states, providing useful information for biological or pharmaceutical research. Our extensive data serve as spectral library to characterize a human cohort of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and cirrhosis. Dramatic proteome changes in liver tissue include signatures of hepatic stellate cell activation resembling liver cirrhosis and providing functional insights. We built a web-based dashboard application for the interactive exploration of our resource (www.liverproteome.org).
PXD029311	35579693	The potential of remdesivir to affect function, metabolism and proliferation of cardiac and kidney cells in vitro. 	The potential of remdesivir to affect function, metabolism and proliferation of in vitro heart and kidney models	Covid-19, cardiotoxicity, mitochondrial toxicity, nephrotoxicity, nucleoside analogue, remdesivir	Remdesivir is a prodrug of a nucleoside analog and the first antiviral therapeutic approved for coronavirus disease. Recent cardiac safety concerns and reports on remdesivir-related acute kidney injury call for a better characterization of remdesivir toxicity and understanding of the underlying mechanisms. Here, we performed an in vitro toxicity assessment of remdesivir around clinically relevant concentrations (Cmax 9 microM) using H9c2 rat cardiomyoblasts, neonatal mouse cardiomyocytes (NMCM), rat NRK-52E and human RPTEC/TERT1 cells as cell models for the assessment of cardiotoxicity or nephrotoxicity, respectively. Due to the known potential of nucleoside analogs for the induction of mitochondrial toxicity, we assessed mitochondrial function in response to remdesivir treatment, early proteomic changes in NMCM and RPTEC/TERT1 cells and the contractile function of NMCM. Short-term treatments (24 h) of H9c2 and NRK-52E cells with remdesivir adversely affected cell viability by inhibition of proliferation as determined by significantly decreased (3)H-thymidine uptake. Mitochondrial toxicity of remdesivir (1.6-3.1 microM) in cardiac cells was evident by a significant decrease in oxygen consumption, a collapse of mitochondrial membrane potential and an increase in lactate secretion after a 24-48-h treatment. This was supported by early proteomic changes of respiratory chain proteins and intermediate filaments that are typically involved in mitochondrial reorganization. Functionally, an impedance-based analysis showed that remdesivir (6.25 microM) affected the beat rate and contractility of NMCM. In conclusion, we identified adverse effects of remdesivir in cardiac and kidney cells at clinically relevant concentrations, suggesting a careful evaluation of therapeutic use in patients at risk for cardiovascular or kidney disease.
PXD030723	35579911	Proteomic profiling of idiopathic Parkinson's disease primary patient cells by SWATH-MS. 	Proteomic profiling of idiopathic Parkinson's disease primary patient cells by SWATH-MS	Parkinsons, SWATH	PURPOSE: Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disease. It is generally diagnosed clinically after the irreversible loss of dopaminergic neurons and no general biomarkers currently exist. To gain insight into the underlying cellular causes of PD we aimed to quantify the proteomic differences between healthy control and PD patient cells. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Sequential Window Acquisition of all THeoretical Mass Spectra was performed on primary cells from healthy controls and PD patients. RESULTS: In total, 1948 proteins were quantified and 228 proteins were significantly differentially expressed in PD patient cells. In PD patient cells, we identified seven significantly increased proteins involved in the unfolded protein response (UPR) and focused on cells with high and low amounts of PDIA6 and HYOU1. We discovered that PD patients with high amounts of PDIA6 and HYOU1 proteins were more sensitive to endoplasmic reticulum stress, in particular to tunicamycin. Data is available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD030723. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This data from primary patient cells has uncovered a critical role of the UPR in patients with PD and may provide insight to the underlying cellular dysfunctions in these patients.
PXD031831	35580046	A loosened gating mechanism of RIG-I leads to autoimmune disorders. 	RIGI autoimmune variants conformational changes	HDX-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), RIG-I	DDX58 encodes RIG-I, a cytosolic RNA sensor that ensures immune surveillance of nonself RNAs. Individuals with RIG-IE510V and RIG-IQ517H mutations have increased susceptibility to Singleton-Merten syndrome (SMS) defects, resulting in tissue-specific (mild) and classic (severe) phenotypes. The coupling between RNA recognition and conformational changes is central to RIG-I RNA proofreading, but the molecular determinants leading to dissociated disease phenotypes remain unknown. Herein, we employed hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) and single molecule magnetic tweezers (MT) to precisely examine how subtle conformational changes in the helicase insertion domain (HEL2i) promote impaired ATPase and erroneous RNA proofreading activities. We showed that the mutations cause a loosened latch-gate engagement in apo RIG-I, which in turn gradually dampens its self RNA (Cap2 moiety:m7G cap and N1-2-2'-O-methylation RNA) proofreading ability, leading to increased immunopathy. These results reveal HEL2i as a unique checkpoint directing two specialized functions, i.e. stabilizing the CARD2-HEL2i interface and gating the helicase from incoming self RNAs; thus, these findings add new insights into the role of HEL2i in the control of antiviral innate immunity and autoimmunity diseases.
PXD030217	35580369	In uveal melanoma Galpha-protein GNA11 mutations convey a shorter disease-specific survival and are more strongly associated with loss of BAP1 and chromosomal alterations than Galpha-protein GNAQ mutations. 	Oncogenic mutations in the Galpha-protein GNA11 convey a shorter disease specific survival and are more strongly associated with loss of BAP1 and chromosomal alterations than GNAQ mutations in uveal melanoma	ASAP1, BAP1, GNA11, GNAQ, metastasis risk	BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: Mutations in the Galpha-genes GNAQ and GNA11 are found in 85-90% of uveal melanomas (UM). Aim of the study is to understand whether the mutations in both genes differentially affect tumor characteristics and outcome and if so, to identify potential mechanisms. METHODS: We analyzed the association between GNAQ and GNA11 mutations with disease-specific survival, gene expression profiles, and cytogenetic alterations in 219 UMs. We used tandem-affinity-purification, mass spectrometry and immunoprecipitation to identify protein interaction partners of the two G-proteins and analyzed their impact on DNA-methylation. RESULTS: GNA11 mutation was associated with: i) an increased frequency of loss of BRCA1-associated protein 1 (BAP1) expression (p = 0.0005), ii) monosomy of chromosome 3 (p < 0.001), iii) amplification of chr8q (p = 0.038), iv) the combination of the latter two (p = 0.0002), and inversely with v) chr6p gain (p = 0.003). Our analysis also showed a shorter disease-specific survival of GNA11-mutated cases as compared to those carrying a GNAQ mutation (HR = 1.97 [95%CI 1.12-3.46], p = 0.02). GNAQ and GNA11 encoded G-proteins have different protein interaction partners. Specifically, the Tet Methylcytosine Dioxygenase 2 (TET2), a protein that is involved in DNA demethylation, physically interacts with the GNAQ protein but not with GNA11, as confirmed by immunoprecipitation analyses. High-risk UM cases show a clearly different DNA-methylation pattern, suggesting that a different regulation of DNA methylation by the two G-proteins might convey a different risk of progression. CONCLUSIONS: GNA11 mutated uveal melanoma has worse prognosis and is associated with high risk cytogenetic, mutational and molecular tumor characteristics that might be determined at least in part by differential DNA-methylation.
PXD027766	35580925	Soluble HLA peptidome of pleural effusions is a valuable source for tumor antigens. 	Mapping the soluble human leukocyte antigen peptidome of pleural effusions reveals lung and tumor-associated antigens	HLA peptidome, Pleural effusion, cancer/testis antigens, immunopeptisome, lung cancer, tumor antigens	BACKGROUND: Soluble human leucocyte antigen (sHLA) molecules, released into the plasma, carry their original peptide cargo and provide insight into the protein synthesis and degradation schemes of their source cells and tissues. Other body fluids, such as pleural effusions, may also contain sHLA-peptide complexes, and can potentially serve as a source of tumor antigens since these fluids are drained from the tumor microenvironment. We explored this possibility by developing a methodology for purifying and analyzing large pleural effusion sHLA class I peptidomes of patients with malignancies or benign diseases. METHODS: Cleared pleural fluids, cell pellets present in the pleural effusions, and the primary tumor cells cultured from cancer patients' effusions, were used for immunoaffinity purification of the HLA molecules. The recovered HLA peptides were analyzed by liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and the resulting LC-MS/MS data were analyzed with the MaxQuant software tool. Selected tumor antigen peptides were tested for their immunogenicity potential with donor peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) in an in vitro assay. RESULTS: Mass spectrometry analysis of the pleural effusions revealed 39,669 peptides attributable to 11,305 source proteins. The majority of peptides identified from the pleural effusions were defined as HLA ligands that fit the patients' HLA consensus sequence motifs. The membranal and soluble HLA peptidomes of each individual patient correlated to each other. Additionally, soluble HLA peptidomes from the same patient, obtained at different visits to the clinic, were highly similar. Compared with benign effusions, the soluble HLA peptidomes of malignant pleural effusions were larger and included HLA peptides derived from known tumor-associated antigens, including cancer/testis antigens, lung-related proteins, and vascular endothelial growth factor pathway proteins. Selected tumor-associated antigens that were identified by the immunopeptidomics were able to successfully prime CD8(+) T cells. CONCLUSIONS: Pleural effusions contain sHLA-peptide complexes, and the pleural effusion HLA peptidome of patients with malignant tumors can serve as a rich source of biomarkers for tumor diagnosis and potential candidates for personalized immunotherapy.
PXD031381	35581222	Nucleotide-amino acid pi-stacking interactions initiate photo cross-linking in RNA-protein complexes. 	Structural requirements for photo-induced RNA-protein cross-linking	CLIR-MS, FOX1, MBNL1, PTBP1, RNA-protein, RNA-protein complex, SF3A1, U1, U2, UV cross-linking, XL-MS, cross-linking, protein-RNA, protein-RNA complex, structural proteomics	Photo-induced cross-linking is a mainstay technique to characterize RNA-protein interactions. However, UV-induced cross-linking between RNA and proteins at "zero-distance" is poorly understood. Here, we investigate cross-linking of the RBFOX alternative splicing factor with its hepta-ribonucleotide binding element as a model system. We examine the influence of nucleobase, nucleotide position and amino acid composition using CLIR-MS technology (crosslinking-of-isotope-labelled-RNA-and-tandem-mass-spectrometry), that locates cross-links on RNA and protein with site-specific resolution. Surprisingly, cross-linking occurs only at nucleotides that are pi-stacked to phenylalanines. Notably, this pi-stacking interaction is also necessary for the amino-acids flanking phenylalanines to partake in UV-cross-linking. We confirmed these observations in several published datasets where cross-linking sites could be mapped to a high resolution structure. We hypothesize that pi-stacking to aromatic amino acids activates cross-linking in RNA-protein complexes, whereafter nucleotide and peptide radicals recombine. These findings will facilitate interpretation of cross-linking data from structural studies and from genome-wide datasets generated using CLIP (cross-linking-and-immunoprecipitation) methods.
PXD029266	35584218	A basement membrane discovery pipeline uncovers network complexity, regulators, and human disease associations. 	MATN2 knock-down human immortalized podocytes LC-MS/MS	MATN2, Q Exactive HF, Shotgun mass spectrometry, podocyte	Basement membranes (BMs) are ubiquitous extracellular matrices whose composition remains elusive, limiting our understanding of BM regulation and function. By developing a bioinformatic and in vivo discovery pipeline, we define a network of 222 human proteins and their animal orthologs localized to BMs. Network analysis and screening in C. elegans and zebrafish uncovered BM regulators, including ADAMTS, ROBO, and TGFbeta. More than 100 BM network genes associate with human phenotypes, and by screening 63,039 genomes from families with rare disorders, we found loss-of-function variants in LAMA5, MPZL2, and MATN2 and show that they regulate BM composition and function. This cross-disciplinary study establishes the immense complexity of BMs and their impact on in human health.
PXD031707	35584224	Structural basis for long-chain isoprenoid synthesis by cis-prenyltransferases. 	Structural analysis of human cis-prenyltransferase	H/D exchange mass spectrometry, cis-prenyltransferase, isoprenoid synthesis	Isoprenoids are synthesized by the prenyltransferase superfamily, which is subdivided according to the product stereoisomerism and length. In short- and medium-chain isoprenoids, product length correlates with active site volume. However, enzymes synthesizing long-chain products and rubber synthases fail to conform to this paradigm, because of an unexpectedly small active site. Here, we focused on the human cis-prenyltransferase complex (hcis-PT), residing at the endoplasmic reticulum membrane and playing a crucial role in protein glycosylation. Crystallographic investigation of hcis-PT along the reaction cycle revealed an outlet for the elongating product. Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry analysis showed that the hydrophobic active site core is flanked by dynamic regions consistent with separate inlet and outlet orifices. Last, using a fluorescence substrate analog, we show that product elongation and membrane association are closely correlated. Together, our results support direct membrane insertion of the elongating isoprenoid during catalysis, uncoupling active site volume from product length.
PXD031238	35584362	Accurate Proteomewide Measurement of Methionine Oxidation in Aging Mouse Brains. 	Accurate proteome-wide measurement of methionine oxidation in aging mouse brains	aging, brain, methionine oxidation	The oxidation of methionine has emerged as an important post-translational modification of proteins. A number of studies have suggested that the oxidation of methionines in select proteins can have diverse impacts on cell physiology, ranging from detrimental effects on protein stability to functional roles in cell signaling. Despite its importance, the large-scale investigation of methionine oxidation in a complex matrix, such as the cellular proteome, has been hampered by technical limitations. We report a methodology, methionine oxidation by blocking (MobB), that allows for accurate and precise quantification of low levels of methionine oxidation typically observed in vivo. To demonstrate the utility of this methodology, we analyzed the brain tissues of young (6 m.o.) and old (20 m.o.) mice and identified over 280 novel sites for in vivo methionine oxidation. We further demonstrated that oxidation stoichiometries for specific methionine residues are highly consistent between individual animals and methionine sulfoxides are enriched in clusters of functionally related gene products including membrane and extracellular proteins. However, we did not detect significant changes in methionine oxidation in brains of old mice. Our results suggest that under normal conditions, methionine oxidation may be a biologically regulated process rather than a result of stochastic chemical damage.
PXD029020	35584604	TRPC5OS induces tumorigenesis by increasing ENO1-mediated glucose uptake in breast cancer. 	Human breast cancer cell LC-MS/MS	breast cancer, cell	Breast cancer is the most common malignant tumor worldwide and the leading cause of cancer-related deaths in female. Metabolic reprogramming plays critical roles in breast tumorigenesis and induces enhanced glucose uptake and glycolysis. TRPC5OS is encoded by short transient receptor potential channel 5 opposite strand, and predicted to correlate with tumor metabolic reprogramming. Here we aim to elucidate the function of TRPC5OS in aberrant metabolism mediated tumorigenesis. We detected TRPC5OS expression levels in cell lines and tissues by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction and immunohistochemistry. Then we assessed the effects of TRPC5OS on proliferation and cell cycle progression in breast cancer cells by cell counting kit-8, colony-formation, EdU-incorporation assays and flow cytometry. Tumor growth in vivo was observed in a mouse xenograft model. Mass spectrum analyses were performed to identify potential interactors of TRPC5OS in tumor cells, and the interaction between TRPC5OS and interactors was validated by co-immunoprecipitation (CO-IP), western blots, and immunofluorescent staining. Glucose uptake was measured by liquid scintillation spectrometry. TRPC5OS highly expresses both in breast tumors and cell lines, and might be an independent prognostic marker for breast cancer patients. Overexpressed TRPC5OS promotes breast cancer cell proliferation, cell cycle progression, and enhances tumor xenograft growth. Mass spectral and CO-IP data showed that TRPC5OS interacts with ENO1. We also demonstrate that TRPC5OS could enhance ENO1/PI3K/Akt-mediated glucose uptake in breast cancer cells. Our study demonstrated that TRPC5OS promotes breast tumorigenesis by ENO1/PI3K/Akt-mediated glucose uptake. TRPC5OS might be an independent prognostic marker and potential therapeutic target for breast cancer patients.
PXD028687	35584675	Zng1 is a GTP-dependent zinc transferase needed for activation of methionine aminopeptidase. 	A conserved nucleotide-dependent metal chaperone for managing the cellular zinc economy during zinc limitation	GTPase, MetAP, nutrient limitation, zinc starvation	The evolution of zinc (Zn) as a protein cofactor altered the functional landscape of biology, but dependency on Zn also created an Achilles' heel, necessitating adaptive mechanisms to ensure Zn availability to proteins. A debated strategy is whether metallochaperones exist to prioritize essential Zn-dependent proteins. Here, we present evidence for a conserved family of putative metal transferases in human and fungi, which interact with Zn-dependent methionine aminopeptidase type I (MetAP1/Map1p/Fma1). Deletion of the putative metal transferase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (ZNG1; formerly YNR029c) leads to defective Map1p function and a Zn-deficiency growth defect. In vitro, Zng1p can transfer Zn(2+) or Co(2+) to apo-Map1p, but unlike characterized copper chaperones, transfer is dependent on GTP hydrolysis. Proteomics reveal mis-regulation of the Zap1p transcription factor regulon because of loss of ZNG1 and Map1p activity, suggesting that Zng1p is required to avoid a compounding effect of Map1p dysfunction on survival during Zn limitation.
PXD027482	35584695	Mpe1 senses the binding of pre-mRNA and controls 3' end processing by CPF. 	Mpe1 senses the polyadenylation signal in pre-mRNA to promote efficient cleavage and control polyadenylation	Crosslinking, protein complex, sulfo-SDA	Most eukaryotic messenger RNAs (mRNAs) are processed at their 3' end by the cleavage and polyadenylation specificity factor (CPF/CPSF). CPF mediates the endonucleolytic cleavage of the pre-mRNA and addition of a polyadenosine (poly(A)) tail, which together define the 3' end of the mature transcript. The activation of CPF is highly regulated to maintain the fidelity of RNA processing. Here, using cryo-EM of yeast CPF, we show that the Mpe1 subunit directly contacts the polyadenylation signal sequence in nascent pre-mRNA. The region of Mpe1 that contacts RNA also promotes the activation of CPF endonuclease activity and controls polyadenylation. The Cft2 subunit of CPF antagonizes the RNA-stabilized configuration of Mpe1. In vivo, the depletion or mutation of Mpe1 leads to widespread defects in transcription termination by RNA polymerase II, resulting in transcription interference on neighboring genes. Together, our data suggest that Mpe1 plays a major role in accurate 3' end processing, activating CPF, and ensuring timely transcription termination.
PXD031516	35584702	Zn-regulated GTPase metalloprotein activator 1 modulates vertebrate zinc homeostasis. 	Mouse kidney and cell lines LC-MS/MS	shotgun, targeteed, zinc	Zinc (Zn) is an essential micronutrient and cofactor for up to 10% of proteins in living organisms. During Zn limitation, specialized enzymes called metallochaperones are predicted to allocate Zn to specific metalloproteins. This function has been putatively assigned to G3E GTPase COG0523 proteins, yet no Zn metallochaperone has been experimentally identified in any organism. Here, we functionally characterize a family of COG0523 proteins that is conserved across vertebrates. We identify Zn metalloprotease methionine aminopeptidase 1 (METAP1) as a COG0523 client, leading to the redesignation of this group of COG0523 proteins as the Zn-regulated GTPase metalloprotein activator (ZNG1) family. Using biochemical, structural, genetic, and pharmacological approaches across evolutionarily divergent models, including zebrafish and mice, we demonstrate a critical role for ZNG1 proteins in regulating cellular Zn homeostasis. Collectively, these data reveal the existence of a family of Zn metallochaperones and assign ZNG1 an important role for intracellular Zn trafficking.
PXD018313	35585045	HDLBP binds ER-targeted mRNAs by multivalent interactions to promote protein synthesis of transmembrane and secreted proteins. 	Vigilin/HDLBP promotes translation of endoplasmic reticulum-targeted mRNAs	HDLBP, KH-domain, QExactive HF, RNA-binding protein, Vigilin, endoplasmic reticulum, homo sapiens, translation	The biological role of RNA-binding proteins in the secretory pathway is not well established. Here, we describe that human HDLBP/Vigilin directly interacts with more than 80% of ER-localized mRNAs. PAR-CLIP analysis reveals that these transcripts represent high affinity HDLBP substrates and are specifically bound in their coding sequences (CDS), in contrast to CDS/3'UTR-bound cytosolic mRNAs. HDLBP crosslinks strongly to long CU-rich motifs, which frequently reside in CDS of ER-localized mRNAs and result in high affinity multivalent interactions. In addition to HDLBP-ncRNA interactome, quantification of HDLBP-proximal proteome confirms association with components of the translational apparatus and the signal recognition particle. Absence of HDLBP results in decreased translation efficiency of HDLBP target mRNAs, impaired protein synthesis and secretion in model cell lines, as well as decreased tumor growth in a lung cancer mouse model. These results highlight a general function for HDLBP in the translation of ER-localized mRNAs and its relevance for tumor progression.
PXD030644	35585066	Deubiquitinating enzymes and the proteasome regulate preferential sets of ubiquitin substrates. 	Deubiquitinating enzymes and the proteasome regulate unique sets of ubiquitin substrates.	DIA, The ubiquitin-proteasome system	The ubiquitin-proteasome axis has been extensively explored at a system-wide level, but the impact of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) on the ubiquitinome remains largely unknown. Here, we compare the contributions of the proteasome and DUBs on the global ubiquitinome, using UbiSite technology, inhibitors and mass spectrometry. We uncover large dynamic ubiquitin signalling networks with substrates and sites preferentially regulated by DUBs or by the proteasome, highlighting the role of DUBs in degradation-independent ubiquitination. DUBs regulate substrates via at least 40,000 unique sites. Regulated networks of ubiquitin substrates are involved in autophagy, apoptosis, genome integrity, telomere integrity, cell cycle progression, mitochondrial function, vesicle transport, signal transduction, transcription, pre-mRNA splicing and many other cellular processes. Moreover, we show that ubiquitin conjugated to SUMO2/3 forms a strong proteasomal degradation signal. Interestingly, PARP1 is hyper-ubiquitinated in response to DUB inhibition, which increases its enzymatic activity. Our study uncovers key regulatory roles of DUBs and provides a resource of endogenous ubiquitination sites to aid the analysis of substrate specific ubiquitin signalling.
PXD031934	35585086	IL-1R-IRAKM-Slc25a1 signaling axis reprograms lipogenesis in adipocytes to promote diet-induced obesity in mice. 	The role of IRAKM in IL-1beta-treated adipocytes	IRAKM, Pgc1a acetylation, Slc25a1, adipocytes, fatty acid synthesis	Toll-like receptors/Interleukin-1 receptor signaling plays an important role in high-fat diet-induced adipose tissue dysfunction contributing to obesity-associated metabolic syndromes. Here, we show an unconventional IL-1R-IRAKM-Slc25a1 signaling axis in adipocytes that reprograms  lipogenesis to promote diet-induced obesity. Adipocyte-specific deficiency of IRAKM reduces high-fat diet-induced body weight gain, increases whole body energy expenditure and improves insulin resistance, associated with decreased lipid accumulation and adipocyte cell sizes. IL-1beta stimulation induces the translocation of IRAKM Myddosome to mitochondria to promote de novo lipogenesis in adipocytes. Mechanistically, IRAKM interacts with and phosphorylates mitochondrial citrate carrier Slc25a1 to promote IL-1beta-induced mitochondrial citrate transport to cytosol and de novo lipogenesis.  Moreover, IRAKM-Slc25a1 axis mediates IL-1beta induced Pgc1a  acetylation to regulate thermogenic gene expression in adipocytes. IRAKM kinase-inactivation also attenuates high-fat diet-induced obesity.  Taken together, our study suggests that the IL-1R-IRAKM-Slc25a1 signaling axis tightly links inflammation and adipocyte metabolism, indicating a potential therapeutic target for obesity.
PXD017470	35585231	Distinct gene clusters drive formation of ferrosome organelles in bacteria. 	Distinct gene clusters drive formation of ferrosome organelles in bacteria	anaerobic, bacteria, iron, organelle	Cellular iron homeostasis is vital and maintained through tight regulation of iron import, efflux, storage and detoxification(1-3). The most common modes of iron storage use proteinaceous compartments, such as ferritins and related proteins(4,5). Although lipid-bounded iron compartments have also been described, the basis for their formation and function remains unknown(6,7). Here we focus on one such compartment, herein named the 'ferrosome', that was previously observed in the anaerobic bacterium Desulfovibrio magneticus(6). Using a proteomic approach, we identify three ferrosome-associated (Fez) proteins that are responsible for forming ferrosomes in D. magneticus. Fez proteins are encoded in a putative operon and include FezB, a P1B-6-ATPase found in phylogenetically and metabolically diverse species of bacteria and archaea. We show that two other bacterial species, Rhodopseudomonas palustris and Shewanella putrefaciens, make ferrosomes through the action of their six-gene fez operon. Additionally, we find that fez operons are sufficient for ferrosome formation in foreign hosts. Using S. putrefaciens as a model, we show that ferrosomes probably have a role in the anaerobic adaptation to iron starvation. Overall, this work establishes ferrosomes as a new class of iron storage organelles and sets the stage for studying their formation and structure in diverse microorganisms.
PXD031722	35585665	Complete Sequences of the Velvet Worm Slime Proteins Reveal that Slime Formation is Enabled by Disulfide Bonds and Intrinsically Disordered Regions. 	Complete sequences of the velvet worm slime proteins reveal that slime formation is enabled by disulfide bonds and intrinsically disordered regions	Velvetworm slime biofabrication, biopolymers, transcriptomics	The slime of velvet worms (Onychophora) is a strong and fully biodegradable protein material, which upon ejection undergoes a fast liquid-to-solid transition to ensnare prey. However, the molecular mechanisms of slime self-assembly are still not well understood, notably because the primary structures of slime proteins are yet unknown. Combining transcriptomic and proteomic studies, the authors have obtained the complete primary sequences of slime proteins and identified key features for slime self-assembly. The high molecular weight slime proteins contain cysteine residues at the N- and C-termini that mediate the formation of multi-protein complexes via disulfide bonding. Low complexity domains in the N-termini are also identified and their propensity for liquid-liquid phase separation is established, which may play a central role in slime biofabrication. Using solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance, rigid and flexible domains of the slime proteins are mapped to specific peptide domains. The complete sequencing of major slime proteins is an important step toward sustainable fabrication of polymers inspired by the velvet worm slime.
PXD031907	35586951	T-cell-derived Hodgkin lymphoma has motility characteristics intermediate between Hodgkin and anaplastic large cell lymphoma. 	T-cell-derived Hodgkin lymphoma has motility characteristics intermediate between Hodgkin and anaplastic large cell lymphoma	Anaplastic large cell lymphoma, Hodgkin lymphoma, cell motility, global proteome	Classic Hodgkin lymphoma (cHL) is usually characterized by a low tumour cell content, derived from crippled germinal centre B cells. Rare cases have been described in which the tumour cells show clonal T-cell receptor rearrangements. From a clinicopathological perspective, it is unclear if these cases should be classified as cHL or anaplastic large T-cell lymphoma (ALCL). Since we recently observed differences in the motility of ALCL and cHL tumour cells, here, we aimed to obtain a better understanding of T-cell-derived cHL by investigating their global proteomic profiles and their motility. In a proteomics analysis, when only motility-associated proteins were regarded, T-cell-derived cHL cell lines showed the highest similarity to ALK(-) ALCL cell lines. In contrast, T-cell-derived cHL cell lines presented a very low overall motility, similar to that observed in conventional cHL. Whereas all ALCL cell lines, as well as T-cell-derived cHL, predominantly presented an amoeboid migration pattern with uropod at the rear, conventional cHL never presented with uropods. The migration of ALCL cell lines was strongly impaired upon application of different inhibitors. This effect was less pronounced in cHL cell lines and almost invisible in T-cell-derived cHL. In summary, our cell line-derived data suggest that based on proteomics and migration behaviour, T-cell-derived cHL is a neoplasm that shares features with both cHL and ALCL and is not an ALCL with low tumour cell content. Complementary clinical studies on this lymphoma are warranted.
PXD032063	35587152	Genetic background and mistranslation frequency determine the impact of mistranslating tRNASerUGG. 	Detecting mistranslation from a serine tRNA with proline anticodon expressed in yeast	mistranslation, tRNA	Transfer RNA variants increase the frequency of mistranslation, the misincorporation of an amino acid not specified by the "standard" genetic code, to frequencies approaching 10% in yeast and bacteria. Cells cope with these variants by having multiple copies of each tRNA isodecoder and through pathways that deal with proteotoxic stress. In this study, we define the genetic interactions of the gene encoding tRNASerUGG,G26A, which mistranslates serine at proline codons. Using a collection of yeast temperature-sensitive alleles, we identify negative synthetic genetic interactions between the mistranslating tRNA and 109 alleles representing 91 genes, with nearly half of the genes having roles in RNA processing or protein folding and turnover. By regulating tRNA expression, we then compare the strength of the negative genetic interaction for a subset of identified alleles under differing amounts of mistranslation. The frequency of mistranslation correlated with the impact on cell growth for all strains analyzed; however, there were notable differences in the extent of the synthetic interaction at different frequencies of mistranslation depending on the genetic background. For many of the strains, the extent of the negative interaction with tRNASerUGG,G26A was proportional to the frequency of mistranslation or only observed at intermediate or high frequencies. For others, the synthetic interaction was approximately equivalent at all frequencies of mistranslation. As humans contain similar mistranslating tRNAs, these results are important when analyzing the impact of tRNA variants on disease, where both the individual's genetic background and the expression of the mistranslating tRNA variant need to be considered.
PXD027705	35587358	Regulated targeting of the monotopic hairpin membrane protein Erg1 requires the GET pathway. 	Regulated biogenesis and targeting of monotopic squalene monooxygenase requires the GET pathway	Erg1, GET pathway, Get3, LFQ, in-gel digestion, lipotoxicity, squalene monooxygenase, terbinafine	The guided entry of tail-anchored proteins (GET) pathway targets C-terminally anchored transmembrane proteins and protects cells from lipotoxicity. Here, we reveal perturbed ergosterol production in incrementget3 cells and demonstrate the sensitivity of GET pathway mutants to the sterol synthesis inhibiting drug terbinafine. Our data uncover a key enzyme of sterol synthesis, the hairpin membrane protein squalene monooxygenase (Erg1), as a non-canonical GET pathway client, thus rationalizing the lipotoxicity phenotypes of GET pathway mutants. Get3 recognizes the hairpin targeting element of Erg1 via its classical client-binding pocket. Intriguingly, we find that the GET pathway is especially important for the acute upregulation of Erg1 induced by low sterol conditions. We further identify several other proteins anchored to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane exclusively via a hairpin as putative clients of the GET pathway. Our findings emphasize the necessity of dedicated targeting pathways for high-efficiency targeting of particular clients during dynamic cellular adaptation and highlight hairpin proteins as a potential novel class of GET clients.
PXD032727	35587511	Human OTULIN haploinsufficiency impairs cell-intrinsic immunity to staphylococcal alpha-toxin. 	Large-scale proteome and ubiquitination landscape of patients with OTULIN haploinsufficiency Part1 of 3	OTULIN, TMT, ubiquitin	The molecular basis of interindividual clinical variability upon infection with Staphylococcus aureus is unclear. We describe patients with haploinsufficiency for the linear deubiquitinase OTULIN, encoded by a gene on chromosome 5p. Patients suffer from episodes of life-threatening necrosis, typically triggered by S. aureus infection. The disorder is phenocopied in patients with the 5p- (Cri-du-Chat) chromosomal deletion syndrome. OTULIN haploinsufficiency causes an accumulation of linear ubiquitin in dermal fibroblasts, but tumor necrosis factor receptor-mediated nuclear factor kappaB signaling remains intact. Blood leukocyte subsets are unaffected. The OTULIN-dependent accumulation of caveolin-1 in dermal fibroblasts, but not leukocytes, facilitates the cytotoxic damage inflicted by the staphylococcal virulence factor alpha-toxin. Naturally elicited antibodies against alpha-toxin contribute to incomplete clinical penetrance. Human OTULIN haploinsufficiency underlies life-threatening staphylococcal disease by disrupting cell-intrinsic immunity to alpha-toxin in nonleukocytic cells.
PXD033359	35589707	TUBB4A interacts with MYH9 to protect the nucleus during cell migration and promotes prostate cancer via GSK3beta/beta-catenin signalling. 	Human prostate cancer cell TUBB4A LC-MS	Antibodies (B/D-HPP), Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, LC-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), TUBB4A, prostate cancer	Human tubulin beta class IVa (TUBB4A) is a member of the beta-tubulin family. In most normal tissues, expression of TUBB4A is little to none, but it is highly expressed in human prostate cancer. Here we show that high expression levels of TUBB4A are associated with aggressive prostate cancers and poor patient survival, especially for African-American men. Additionally, in prostate cancer cells, TUBB4A knockout (KO) reduces cell growth and migration but induces DNA damage through increased gammaH2AX and 53BP1. Furthermore, during constricted cell migration, TUBB4A interacts with MYH9 to protect the nucleus, but either TUBB4A KO or MYH9 knockdown leads to severe DNA damage and reduces the NF-kappaB signaling response. Also, TUBB4A KO retards tumor growth and metastasis. Functional analysis reveals that TUBB4A/GSK3beta binds to the N-terminal of MYH9, and that TUBB4A KO reduces MYH9-mediated GSK3beta ubiquitination and degradation, leading to decreased activation of beta-catenin signaling and its relevant epithelial-mesenchymal transition. Likewise, prostate-specific deletion of Tubb4a reduces spontaneous tumor growth and metastasis via inhibition of NF-kappaB, cyclin D1, and c-MYC signaling activation. Our results suggest an oncogenic role of TUBB4A and provide a potentially actionable therapeutic target for prostate cancers with TUBB4A overexpression.
PXD028492	35589717	The ubiquitin ligase Cul5 regulates CD4(+) T cell fate choice and allergic inflammation. 	Cul5 regulates CD4+ T cell fate choice and allergic inflammation	Allergy, Asthma, CD4, CIS, CRL5, Cul5, T-cell, Ubiquitin	Antigen encounter directs CD4(+) T cells to differentiate into T helper or regulatory cells. This process focuses the immune response on the invading pathogen and limits tissue damage. Mechanisms that govern T helper cell versus T regulatory cell fate remain poorly understood. Here, we show that the E3 ubiquitin ligase Cul5 determines fate selection in CD4(+) T cells by regulating IL-4 receptor signaling. Mice lacking Cul5 in T cells develop Th2 and Th9 inflammation and show pathophysiological features of atopic asthma. Following T cell activation, Cul5 forms a complex with CIS and pJak1. Cul5 deletion reduces ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of pJak1, leading to an increase in pJak1 and pSTAT6 levels and reducing the threshold of IL-4 receptor signaling. As a consequence, Cul5 deficient CD4(+) T cells deviate from Treg to Th9 differentiation in low IL-4 conditions. These data support the notion that Cul5 promotes a tolerogenic T cell fate choice and reduces susceptibility to allergic asthma.
PXD032291	35589723	Noninvasive urinary protein signatures associated with colorectal cancer diagnosis and metastasis. 	Noninvasive urinary protein signatures associated with colorectal cancer diagnosis and metastasis	CRC urine PRM	Currently, imaging, fecal immunochemical tests (FITs) and serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) tests are not adequate for the early detection and evaluation of metastasis and recurrence in colorectal cancer (CRC). To comprehensively identify and validate more accurate noninvasive biomarkers in urine, we implement a staged discovery-verification-validation pipeline in 657 urine and 993 tissue samples from healthy controls and CRC patients with a distinct metastatic risk. The generated diagnostic signature combined with the FIT test reveals a significantly increased sensitivity (+21.2% in the training set, +43.7% in the validation set) compared to FIT alone. Moreover, the generated metastatic signature for risk stratification correctly predicts over 50% of CEA-negative metastatic patients. The tissue validation shows that elevated urinary protein biomarkers reflect their alterations in tissue. Here, we show promising urinary protein signatures and provide potential interventional targets to reliably detect CRC, although further multi-center external validation is needed to generalize the findings.
PXD023904	35590073	Deep Visual Proteomics defines single-cell identity and heterogeneity. 	Deep Visual Proteomics defines single-cell identity and heterogeneity	Digital Pathology, Laser Microdissection, Microscopy	Despite the availabilty of imaging-based and mass-spectrometry-based methods for spatial proteomics, a key challenge remains connecting images with single-cell-resolution protein abundance measurements. Here, we introduce Deep Visual Proteomics (DVP), which combines artificial-intelligence-driven image analysis of cellular phenotypes with automated single-cell or single-nucleus laser microdissection and ultra-high-sensitivity mass spectrometry. DVP links protein abundance to complex cellular or subcellular phenotypes while preserving spatial context. By individually excising nuclei from cell culture, we classified distinct cell states with proteomic profiles defined by known and uncharacterized proteins. In an archived primary melanoma tissue, DVP identified spatially resolved proteome changes as normal melanocytes transition to fully invasive melanoma, revealing pathways that change in a spatial manner as cancer progresses, such as mRNA splicing dysregulation in metastatic vertical growth that coincides with reduced interferon signaling and antigen presentation. The ability of DVP to retain precise spatial proteomic information in the tissue context has implications for the molecular profiling of clinical samples.
PXD028715	35590248	(13)C(15)N: glucagon-based novel isotope dilution mass spectrometry method for measurement of glucagon metabolism in humans. 	13C15N - Glucagon-based novel isotope dilution mass spectrometry method for measurement of glucagon metabolism in humans	Glucagon, PRM, stable isotope dilution	BACKGROUND: Glucagon serves as an important regulatory hormone for regulating blood glucose concentration with tight feedback control exerted by insulin and glucose. There are critical gaps in our understanding of glucagon kinetics, pancreatic alpha cell function and intra-islet feedback network that are disrupted in type 1 diabetes. This is important for translational research applications of evolving dual-hormone (insulin + glucagon) closed-loop artificial pancreas algorithms and their usage in type 1 diabetes. Thus, it is important to accurately measure glucagon kinetics in vivo and to develop robust models of glucose-insulin-glucagon interplay that could inform next generation of artificial pancreas algorithms. METHODS: Here, we describe the administration of novel (13)C(15)N heavy isotope-containing glucagon tracers-FF glucagon [(Phe 6 (13)C9,(15)N; Phe 22 (13)C9,(15)N)] and FFLA glucagon [(Phe 6 (13)C9,(15)N; Phe 22 (13)C9,(15)N; Leu 14 (13)C6,(15)N; Ala 19 (13)C3)] followed by anti-glucagon antibody-based enrichment and LC-MS/MS based-targeted assays using high-resolution mass spectrometry to determine levels of infused glucagon in plasma samples. The optimized assay results were applied for measurement of glucagon turnover in subjects with and without type 1 diabetes infused with isotopically labeled glucagon tracers. RESULTS: The limit of quantitation was found to be 1.56 pg/ml using stable isotope-labeled glucagon as an internal standard. Intra and inter-assay variability was < 6% and < 16%, respectively, for FF glucagon while it was < 5% and < 23%, respectively, for FFLA glucagon. Further, we carried out a novel isotope dilution technique using glucagon tracers for studying glucagon kinetics in type 1 diabetes. CONCLUSIONS: The methods described in this study for simultaneous detection and quantitation of glucagon tracers have clinical utility for investigating glucagon kinetics in vivo in humans.
PXD030112	35592564	Application of Parallel Reaction Monitoring in (15)N Labeled Samples for Quantification. 	Parallel Reaction Monitoring of 42 peptide pairs with 15N metabolic labeling	15N Metabolic labeling, Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), Protein Prospector, Quantification, Targeted quantification	Accurate relative quantification is critical in proteomic studies. The incorporation of stable isotope (15)N to plant-expressed proteins in vivo is a powerful tool for accurate quantification with a major advantage of reducing preparative and analytical variabilities. However, (15)N labeling quantification has several challenges. Less identifications are often observed in the heavy-labeled samples because of incomplete labeling, resulting in missing values in reciprocal labeling experiments. Inaccurate quantification can happen when there is contamination from co-eluting peptides or chemical noise in the MS(1) survey scan. These drawbacks in quantification can be more pronounced in less abundant but biologically interesting proteins, which often have very few identified peptides. Here, we demonstrate the application of parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) to (15)N labeled samples on a high resolution, high mass accuracy Orbitrap mass spectrometer to achieve reliable quantification even of low abundance proteins in samples.
PXD032660	35592697	Alterations of Lysine Acetylation Profile in Murine Skeletal Muscles Upon Exercise. 	Long-term aerobic  exercise remodels the Proteome and Acetylome  of mice skeletal muscle	acetylome, aerobic exercise, metabolism, skeletal muscle	Objective: Regular exercise is a powerful tool that enhances skeletal muscle mass and strength. Lysine acetylation is an important post-translational modification (PTM) involved in a broad array of cellular functions. Skeletal muscle protein contains a considerable number of lysine-acetylated (Kac) sites, so we aimed to investigate the effects of exercise-induced lysine acetylation on skeletal muscle proteins. Methods: We randomly divided 20 male C57BL/6 mice into exercise and control groups. After 6 weeks of treadmill exercise, a lysine acetylation proteomics analysis of the gastrocnemius muscles of mice was performed. Results: A total of 2,254 lysine acetylation sites in 693 protein groups were identified, among which 1,916 sites in 528 proteins were quantified. The enrichment analysis suggested that protein acetylation could influence both structural and functional muscle protein properties. Moreover, molecular docking revealed that mimicking protein deacetylation primarily influenced the interaction between substrates and enzymes. Conclusion: Exercise-induced lysine acetylation appears to be a crucial contributor to the alteration of skeletal muscle protein binding free energy, suggesting that its modulation is a potential approach for improving exercise performance.
PXD027753	35592704	Identification of allergenomic signatures in allergic and well-tolerated apple genotypes using LC-MS/MS. 	Identification of allergenomic signatures in allergic and well-tolerated apple genotypes using LC-MS/MS	Mal d proteins, Malus domestica, apple breeding, hypoallergenic	The apple fruit (Malus domestica L. Borkh) is one of the most popular fruits worldwide. Beyond their beneficial properties, apples contain proteins that trigger allergic reactions in susceptible consumers. Mal d1 to d4 are allergens present in a variety of different isoforms in apples. In this study, we used proteomics to quantify all four Mal d proteins in 52 apple genotypes with varying allergenic potentials. A total of 195, 17, 14, and 18 peptides were found to be related to Mal d1, d2, d3, and d4 proteins, respectively of which 25 different Mal d proteins could be unambiguously identified. The allergenic potential of the Mal d isoforms was characterized by comparing the isoform abundance with the allergenic score of genotypes from oral challenge tests. The detected Mal d peptides presumably have different IgE binding properties and could be used as potential molecular markers to discriminate between hypoallergenic and hyperallergenic cultivars.
PXD032682	35592860	Exosome Mediated Cytosolic Cisplatin Delivery Through Clathrin-Independent Endocytosis and Enhanced Anti-cancer Effect via Avoiding Endosome Trapping in Cisplatin-Resistant Ovarian Cancer. 	Milk exosome delivery anti-cancer drugs	exosmes	Background: Ovarian carcinoma is one of the most common gynecologic malignancies, cisplatin resistance has become a key obstacle to the successful treatment of ovarian cancer because ovarian carcinomas are liable to drug resistance. To find an effective drug carrier is an urgent need. Methods: Exosomes and loading-cisplatin exosomes are isolated using differential centrifugation and characterized by transmission, electron, nanoparticle tracking analysis. The anti-cancer effect of cisplatin was detected under the circumstance of delivered by exosomes or without exosomes in vitro and in vivo. Using proteome analysis and bioinformatics analysis, we further discovered the pathways in exosomes delivery process. We employed a con-focal immunofluorescence analysis, to evaluate the effects of milk-exosomes deliver the cisplatin via avoiding endosomal trapping. Results: Exosomes and exosome-cisplatin were characterized including size, typical markers including CD63, Alix and Tsg101. The anti-cancer effect of cisplatin was enhanced when delivered by exosome in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistic studies shown that exosomes deliver cisplatin mostly via clathrin-independent endocytosis pathway. Exosomes deliver cisplatin into cisplatin-resistant cancer cells clathrin-independent endocytosis and enhance the anti-cancer effect through avoiding endosome trapping. Conclusion: Cisplatin could be delivered by exosome through clathrin-independent endocytosis, and could evade the endosome trapping, diffused in the cytosol evenly. Our study clarifies the mechanism of exosomes mediated drug delivery against resistant cancer, indicates that exosomes can be a potential nano-carrier for cisplatin against cisplatin resistant ovarian cancer, which validates and enriches the theory of intracellular exosome trafficking.
PXD022765	35594055	Trafficking regulator of GLUT4-1 (TRARG1) is a GSK3 substrate. 	Identifying a GSK3-TRARG1 signaling axis reveals BCL9L as a novel regulator of GLUT4 trafficking	BCL9L, GLUT4, TRARG1, phosphorylation, trafficking	Trafficking regulator of GLUT4-1, TRARG1, positively regulates insulin-stimulated GLUT4 trafficking and insulin sensitivity. However, the mechanism(s) by which this occurs remain(s) unclear. Using biochemical and mass spectrometry analyses we found that TRARG1 is dephosphorylated in response to insulin in a PI3K/Akt-dependent manner and is a novel substrate for GSK3. Priming phosphorylation of murine TRARG1 at serine 84 allows for GSK3-directed phosphorylation at serines 72, 76 and 80. A similar pattern of phosphorylation was observed in human TRARG1, suggesting that our findings are translatable to human TRARG1. Pharmacological inhibition of GSK3 increased cell surface GLUT4 in cells stimulated with a submaximal insulin dose, and this was impaired following Trarg1 knockdown, suggesting that TRARG1 acts as a GSK3-mediated regulator in GLUT4 trafficking. These data place TRARG1 within the insulin signaling network and provide insights into how GSK3 regulates GLUT4 trafficking in adipocytes.
PXD023994	35594347	Protein lifetimes in aged brains reveal a proteostatic adaptation linking physiological aging to neurodegeneration. 	Precisely measured protein lifetimes in the brain of aged mice	Protein lifetimes, brain turnover, cerebellum, cortex, metabolic labeling, synapse	Aging is a prominent risk factor for neurodegenerative disorders (NDDs); however, the molecular mechanisms rendering the aged brain particularly susceptible to neurodegeneration remain unclear. Here, we aim to determine the link between physiological aging and NDDs by exploring protein turnover using metabolic labeling and quantitative pulse-SILAC proteomics. By comparing protein lifetimes between physiologically aged and young adult mice, we found that in aged brains protein lifetimes are increased by ~20% and that aging affects distinct pathways linked to NDDs. Specifically, a set of neuroprotective proteins are longer-lived in aged brains, while some mitochondrial proteins linked to neurodegeneration are shorter-lived. Strikingly, we observed a previously unknown alteration in proteostasis that correlates to parsimonious turnover of proteins with high biosynthetic costs, revealing an overall metabolic adaptation that preludes neurodegeneration. Our findings suggest that future therapeutic paradigms, aimed at addressing these metabolic adaptations, might be able to delay NDD onset.
PXD029584	35594371	Proteomic Study of the Adaptive Mechanism of Ciprofloxacin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus to the Host Environment. 	Adaptiven mechanism of antibiotic resistant Staphylococus aureus to host environment	Ciprofloxacin-resistant, Host environment, Staphylococcus aureus	Antibiotic-resistant bacteria can escape host immune killing and settle in the host to form persistent infections. In this study we investigated the adaptive mechanism of resistant Staphylococcus aureus to the host environment by data-independent acquisition-based quantitative proteomics and functional validation. The growth curve and minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) indicated that ciprofloxacin-resistant (Cip-R) S. aureus showed a survival advantage over sensitive strains. Cip-R also exhibited a stronger invasion and biofilm formation ability than sensitive bacteria. Cip-R stimulation resulted in the improved production of inflammatory factors of the host cells. Proteomics study combined with biochemical validations showed that Cip-R obtained adaptability to the host via upregulation of the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA cycle) and downregulation of ribosome metabolism and protein folding to maintain energy to support Cip-R's survival. Thus, this study will help us to further explain the growth strategy of resistant bacteria to adapt to the host environment, and provide important information for the development of new antibacterial drugs.
PXD033373	35594991	Discovery Proteomics Analysis Determines That Driver Oncogenes Suppress Antiviral Defense Pathways Through Reduction in Interferon-beta Autocrine Stimulation. 	Label-free whole cell proteomics for oncogene cell lines	AKT, BRAF, EGFR, HER2, KRAS, MEK, MYC, PDAC, osteosarcoma	Since the discovery of oncogenes, there has been tremendous interest to understand their mechanistic basis and to develop broadly actionable therapeutics. Some of the most frequently activated oncogenes driving diverse cancers are c-MYC, EGFR, HER2, AKT, KRAS, BRAF, and MEK. Using a reductionist approach, we explored how cellular proteomes are remodeled in isogenic cell lines engineered with or without these driver oncogenes. The most striking discovery for all oncogenic models was the systematic downregulation of scores of antiviral proteins regulated by type 1 interferon. These findings extended to cancer cell lines and patient-derived xenograft models of highly refractory pancreatic cancer and osteosarcoma driven by KRAS and MYC oncogenes. The oncogenes reduced basal expression of and autocrine stimulation by type 1 interferon causing remarkable convergence on common phenotypic and functional profiles. In particular, there was dramatically lower expression of dsRNA sensors including DDX58 (RIG-I) and OAS proteins, which resulted in attenuated functional responses when the oncogenic cells were treated with the dsRNA mimetic, polyI:C, and increased susceptibility to infection with an RNA virus shown using SARS-CoV-2. Our reductionist approach provides molecular and functional insights connected to immune evasion hallmarks in cancers and suggests therapeutic opportunities.
PXD033647	35595054	Obesity affects the proteome profile of periodontal ligament submitted to mechanical forces induced by orthodontic tooth movement in rats. 	Proteomic profile of rats' periodontal tissues with mechanical orthodontic force on health or obesity	Cathepsin D, Obesity, Orthodontic Tooth Movement, Osteopontin, Vinculin	The prevalence of obesity has increased significantly worldwide. Therefore, this study aimed to evaluate the influence of obesity on the proteomic profile of periodontal ligament (PDL) tissues of rat first maxillary molars (1 M) submitted to orthodontic tooth movement (OTM). Ten Holtzman rats were distributed into two groups (n = 5): the M group (OTM), and the OM group (obesity induction plus OTM). Obesity was induced by a high-fat diet for the entire experimental periods After that period, the animals were euthanized and the hemimaxillae removed and processed for laser capture microdissection of the PDL tissues of the 1 M. Peptide extracts were obtained and analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD033647. Out of the 109 proteins with differential abundance, 49 were identified in the OM group, including Vinculin, Cathepsin D, and Osteopontin, which were selected for in situ localization by immunohistochemistry analysis (IHC). Overall, Gene Ontology (GO) analysis indicated that enriched proteins were related to the GO component cellular category. IHC validated the trends for selected proteins. Our study highlights the differences in the PDL proteome profiling of healthy and obese subjects undergoing OTM. These findings may provide valuable information needed to better understand the mechanisms involved in tissue remodeling in obese patients submitted to orthodontic treatment. SIGNIFICANCE: The prevalence of obesity is increasing worldwide. Emerging findings in the field of dentistry suggest that obesity influences the tissues around the teeth, especially those in the periodontal ligament. Therefore, evaluation of the effect of obesity on periodontal tissues remodeling during orthodontic tooth movement is a relevant research topic. To our knowledge, this is the first study to evaluate proteomic changes in periodontal ligament tissue in response to the association between orthodontic tooth movement and obesity. Our study identified a novel protein profile associated with obesity by using laser microdissection and proteomic analysis, providing new information to increase understanding of the mechanisms involved in obese patients undergoing orthodontic treatment which can lead to a more personalized orthodontic treatment approach.
PXD033032	35595055	Proteomic profile of polar filament and polar tube from fungal pathogen microsporidium Nosema bombycis provides new insights into its unique invasion organelle. 	Proteome of the polar filament and polar tube of Nosema bombycis	polar tube, polar tube Nosema bombycis	Microsporidium is a kind of intracellular fungal pathogen that greatly threatens the human health, breeding industry, and food security. All members of microsporidia possess a unique, highly specialized invasion organelle, described as the polar filament. Like "reversing a finger of gloves", the polar filament discharges out of mature spores to transform as the polar tube, and pathogenic sporoplasm is transported to host cell through polar tube to complete infection. During the invasion process, the structure of polar filament and polar tube has changed, so does the protein composition on them? In this study, we firstly proposed a purification method for polar filament and polar tube from microsporidium Nosema bombycis which was infected silkworm Bombyx mori, and it was also found that the structure of polar filament and polar tube was obviously different. Therefore, the proteome of these two structures was comparatively analyzed. A total of 881 and 1216 proteins were respectively identified from the polar filament and polar tube. Ten potential novel polar tube proteins (PTPs) were screened, providing a reference for the novel PTPs identification. Compared with the polar filament, there were 35 upregulated and 41 downregulated proteins on the polar tube. GO and KEGG pathway analysis of all proteins from the polar filament and polar tube provided us with a profound understanding for the microsporidian germination process, which was of great significance for clarifying the infection mechanism of microsporidia. SIGNIFICANCE: Microsporidia are obligate intracellular parasites that infect a wide variety of hosts, including humans. The polar filament is a unique invasion organelle for microsporidia, and it is also one of the important indexes of microsporidian taxonomy. The polar tube is deformed from the primitive polar filament in mature spores. During the germination, the polar filament turns into a polar tube, like "reversing a finger of gloves", through which pathogenic sporoplasm is transported to host cells to complete infection. Since the structure of the polar filament and polar tube has changed, what about their protein composition? In this study, it was the first time to purify the polar filament and the polar tube from microsporidium Nosema bombycis that was infected silkworm Bombyx mori, which provided new insights for studying the invasion organelle of microsporidia. Comparing the fine structure of polar filament and polar tube, we found that their structure was obviously different. Therefore, the protein composition of these two structures is supposed to be varied. In this case, the proteome of these two structures was comparatively analyzed. A total of 881 and 1216 proteins were respectively identified from the polar filament and polar tube. Ten potential novel polar tube proteins (PTPs) were screened, providing a reference for the novel PTPs identification. Compared with the polar filament, there were 35 upregulated and 41 downregulated proteins on the polar tube. GO and KEGG pathway analysis of all proteins from the polar filament and polar tube provided us with a profound understanding for the microsporidian germination process, which was of great significance for clarifying the infection mechanism of microsporidia.
PXD037080	35598869	Ac-LysargiNase efficiently helps genome reannotation of Mycolicibacterium smegmatis MC(2) 155. 	Ac-LysargiNase Helps Genome Reannotation of Mycolicibacterium smegmatis MC2 155	Ac-LysargiNase, Mycolicibacterium smegmatis MC2 155, proteogenomic	Accurate genome annotation, the foundation of life science research in the genome era, is hampered by limited known gene models, nonstandard start codons, and the limited homology of annotated genes in other organisms. LysargiNase mirrors trypsin at the cleavage sites, providing the opportunity to identify peptides other than tryptic peptides. In this study, we used an in-house developed acetylated LysargiNase (Ac-LysargiNase) with higher activity and stability in non-pathogenic Mycolicibacterium smegmatis MC(2) 155 to supplement the widely used trypsin in proteomic studies. We identified 27,582 peptides from 3844 annotated proteins and 332 novel genome search-specific peptides (GSSPs). Among these GSSPs, 88 peptides were annotated in another M.smegmatis genome database, and 41 were verified as novel peptides by predicted theoretical spectra and their corresponding (15)N-labeling spectra. Further analysis revealed that 17 verified GSSPs corrected the N-terminus of the 13 annotated genes. The other 24 verified GSSPs helped identify 17 novel open reading frames (ORFs) missed in previously annotated M. smegmatis genomes. Among these novel ORFs, four relatively small proteins with amino acid residues less than 100 and three were precisely identified with C-terminal peptides. Ac-LysargiNase helps with genome reannotation by identifying new genes and events in proteogenomic studies. SIGNIFICANCE: Correct genomic annotation is vital in the field of life sciences. The nonstandard start codons seriously affect the confirmation of the translation initiation sites (TISs) of an open reading frame (ORF), and unknown structural genes are easily missed in automated gene prediction. Although proteogenomics presents new avenues for validating gene expression and gene structure refinement based on conventional tryptic peptides, determining the TISs and potential encoding genes is complicated. Thus, validation of TISs and encoding ORFs is crucial and urgent. Therefore, we recommend Ac-LysargiNase, a mirror enzyme of trypsin that can identify additional novel peptides for N-terminal correction and ORF identification.
PXD032195	35599258	Unassembled cell wall proteins form aggregates in the extracellular space of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii strain UVM4. 	UNASSAMBLED CELL WALL PROTEINS FORM AGGREGATES IN THE EXTRACELLULAR SPACE OF CHLAMYDOMONAS REINHARDTII STRAIN UVM4	Chlamydomonas, Microalgae, glycoproteins, pherophorins, recombinant protein, secretome	The green microalga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii is emerging as a promising cell biofactory for secreted recombinant protein (RP) production. In recent years, the generation of the broadly used cell wall-deficient mutant strain UVM4 has allowed for a drastic increase in secreted RP yields. However, purification of secreted RPs from the extracellular space of C. reinhardtii strain UVM4 is challenging. Previous studies suggest that secreted RPs are trapped in a matrix of cell wall protein aggregates populating the secretome of strain UVM4, making it difficult to isolate and purify the RPs. To better understand the nature and behaviour of these extracellular protein aggregates, we analysed and compared the extracellular proteome of the strain UVM4 to its cell-walled ancestor, C. reinhardtii strain 137c. When grown under the same conditions, strain UVM4 produced a unique extracellular proteomic profile, including a higher abundance of secreted cell wall glycoproteins. Further characterization of high molecular weight extracellular protein aggregates in strain UVM4 revealed that they are largely comprised of pherophorins, a specific class of cell wall glycoproteins. Our results offer important new insights into the extracellular space of strain UVM4, including strain-specific secreted cell wall proteins and the composition of the aggregates possibly related to impaired RP purification. The discovery of pherophorins as a major component of extracellular protein aggregates will inform future strategies to remove or prevent aggregate formation, enhance purification of secreted RPs, and improve yields of recombinant biopharmaceuticals in this emerging cell biofactory. KEY POINTS: * Extracellular protein aggregates hinder purification of recombinant proteins in C. reinhardtii * Unassembled cell wall pherophorins are major components of extracellular protein aggregates * Known aggregate composition informs future strategies for recombinant protein purification.
PXD027013	35600368	QKI-6 Suppresses Cell Proliferation, Migration, and EMT in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. 	human NSCLC sh-QKI-6 A549 cell label-free quantification and LC/MS proteomics analysis	NSCLC, QKI-6, label-free quantification	The RNA-binding protein quaking homolog 6 (QKI-6) is a tumor-suppressor gene in several cancers. However, its role in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is unclear. In this study, we aimed to determine the association between QKI-6 expression and survival and clinicopathological features in patients with NSCLC and identify the related mechanisms. Western blot and immunohistochemistry (IHC) were used to detect QKI-6 expression in NSCLC. The effect of QKI-6 on NSCLC cells was determined by overexpression and knockdown assays, and label-free quantitative proteomics and Western blot were used to identify the underlying mechanisms. Low QKI-6 expression level was positively correlated with poor overall survival in patients with NSCLC. Furthermore, QKI-6 overexpression inhibited NSCLC cell proliferation and migration and induced a block in the G0/G1 phase, and QKI-6 downregulation increased proliferation and migration. QKI-6 inhibited EMT processes via EGFR/SRC/STAT3 signaling by upregulating AGR2. In conclusion, QKI-6 could be used to develop novel strategies for the treatment of NSCLC.
PXD007971	35600399	Asporin Interacts With HER2 to Promote Thyroid Cancer Metastasis via the MAPK/EMT Signaling Pathway. 	In-depth analysis of differential protein expression in patients greater than 45 years old with papillary thyroid cancer through quantitative proteomics	45 years, PTC, quantitative proteomics	Approximately 85% of histological subtypes of thyroid cancer are papillary thyroid cancer (PTC), and the morbidity and mortality of PTC patients rapidly increased due to lymph node metastases or distant metastasis. Therefore, it needs to distill an enhanced understanding of the pathogenesis of PTC patients with lymph node metastases or distant metastasis. We employed the TMT-based quantitative proteomics approach to identify and analyze differentially expressed proteins in PTC with different degrees of lymph node metastases. Compared with paired normal tissues, asporin is overexpressed in PTC-N0, PTC-N1a, and PTC-N1b tumorous tissues via proteomics, western blotting, and immunohistochemistry assays. Functionally, asporin is mainly expressed in the extracellular matrix, cell membrane, and cytoplasm of PTC tumorous tissues, and promotes thyroid cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Mechanistically, asporin, interacting with HER2, co-localizes HER2 on the cell membrane and cytoplasm, and the asporin/HER2/SRC/EGFR axis upregulate the expression of EMT-activating transcription factors through the MAPK signaling pathway. Clinically, asporin can be regarded as a serological biomarker to identify PTC patients with or without lymph node metastasis, and high expression of asporin in PTC tumorous tissues is a risk factor for poor prognosis.
PXD031858	35602060	Endoplasmic Reticulum Aminopeptidase 1 Is Involved in Anti-viral Immune Response of Hepatitis B Virus by Trimming Hepatitis B Core Antigen to Generate 9-Mers Peptides. 	The inhibition effect of ERAP1-IN-1 on HepG2.2.15 cells	ERAP1, inhibitor, liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry, peptide length	Endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) is a processing enzyme of antigenic peptides presented to major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules. ERAP1-dependent trimming of epitope repertoire determines an efficacy of adoptive CD8(+) T-cell responses in several viral diseases; however, its role in hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection remains unknown. Here, we show that the serum level of ERAP1 in patients with chronic hepatitis B (CHB) (n = 128) was significantly higher than that of healthy controls (n = 44) (8.78 +/- 1.82 vs. 3.52 +/- 1.61, p < 0.001). Furthermore, peripheral ERAP1 level is moderately correlated with HBV DNA level in patients with CHB (r = 0.731, p < 0.001). HBV-transfected HepG2.2.15 cells had substantially increased ERAP1 expression and secretion than the germline HepG2 cells (p < 0.001). The co-culture of ERAP1-specific inhibitor ERAP1-IN-1 pretreated HepG2.2.15 cells or ERAP1 knockdown HepG2.2.15 cells with CD8(+) T cells led to 14-24% inhibition of the proliferation of CD8(+) T cells. Finally, liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) test demonstrated that ERAP1-IN-1 blocks completely the production of a 9-mers peptide (30-38, LLDTASALY) derived from Hepatitis B core antigen (HBcAg). The predictive analysis by NetMHCpan-4.1 server showed that human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-C*04:01 is a strong binder for the 9-mers peptide in HepG2.2.15 cells. Taken together, our results demonstrated that ERAP1 trims HBcAg to produce 9-mers LLDTASALY peptides for binding onto HLA-C*04:01 in HepG2.2.15 cells, facilitating the potential activation of CD8(+) T cells.
PXD021996	35603428	Ethanolamine-phosphate on the second mannose is a preferential bridge for some GPI-anchored proteins. 	A novel structure of GPI anchored proteins	GPI anchor, LC-ESI- MS, PIGG	Glycosylphosphatidylinositols (GPIs) are glycolipids that anchor many proteins (GPI-APs) on the cell surface. The core glycan of GPI precursor has three mannoses, which in mammals, are all modified by ethanolamine-phosphate (EthN-P). It is postulated that EthN-P on the third mannose (EthN-P-Man3) is the bridge between GPI and the protein and the second (EthN-P-Man2) is removed after GPI-protein attachment. However, EthN-P-Man2 may not be always transient, as mutations of PIGG, the enzyme that transfers EthN-P to Man2, result in inherited GPI deficiencies (IGDs), characterized by neuronal dysfunctions. Here, we show that EthN-P on Man2 is the preferential bridge in some GPI-APs, among them, the Ect-5'-nucleotidase and Netrin G2. We find that CD59, a GPI-AP, is attached via EthN-P-Man2 both in PIGB-knockout cells, in which GPI lacks Man3, and with a small fraction in wild-type cells. Our findings modify the current view of GPI anchoring and provide a mechanistic basis for IGDs caused by PIGG mutations.
PXD033065	35604151	A Spin-Tip Enrichment Strategy for Simultaneous Analysis of N-Glycopeptides and Phosphopeptides from Human Pancreatic Tissues. 	A Spin-Tip Enrichment Strategy for the Simultaneous Analysis of N-Glycopeptides and Phosphopeptides from Human Pancreatic Tissues	N-glycopeptides, dual-functional Ti(IV)-immobilized metal affinity chromatography (IMAC), electrostatic repulsion hydrophilic interaction chromatography, phosphopeptides, post-translational modifications (PTMs), simultaneous enrichment	Mass spectrometry can provide deep coverage of post-translational modifications (PTMs), although enrichment of these modifications from complex biological matrices is often necessary due to their low stoichiometry in comparison to non-modified analytes. Most enrichment workflows of PTMs on peptides in bottom-up proteomics workflows, where proteins are enzymatically digested before the resulting peptides are analyzed, only enrich one type of modification. It is the entire complement of PTMs, however, that leads to biological functions, and enrichment of a single type of PTM may miss such crosstalk of PTMs. PTM crosstalk has been observed between protein glycosylation and phosphorylation, the two most common PTMs in human proteins and also the two most studied PTMs using mass spectrometry workflows. Using the simultaneous enrichment strategy described herein, both PTMs are enriched from post-mortem human pancreatic tissue, a complex biological matrix. Dual-functional Ti(IV)-immobilized metal affinity chromatography is used to separate various forms of glycosylation and phosphorylation simultaneously in multiple fractions in a convenient spin tip-based method, allowing downstream analyses of potential PTM crosstalk interactions. This enrichment workflow for glyco- and phosphopeptides can be applied to various sample types to achieve deep profiling of multiple PTMs and identify potential target molecules for future studies.
PXD021488	35604172	Candida albicans Hyphal Extracellular Vesicles Are Different from Yeast Ones, Carrying an Active Proteasome Complex and Showing a Different Role in Host Immune Response. 	Different protein cargo of extracellular vesicles from yeast or hyphal Candida albicans cells	C. albicans, dimorphic transition, extracelullar vesicles, hyphae	Candida albicans is the principal causative agent of lethal fungal infections, predominantly in immunocompromised hosts. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have been described as crucial in the interaction of microorganisms with their host. Since the yeast-to-hypha transition is an important virulence trait with great impact in invasive candidiasis (IC), we have addressed the characterization of EVs secreted by hyphal cells (HEVs) from C. albicans, comparing them to yeast EVs (YEVs). YEVs comprised a larger population of bigger EVs with mainly cell wall proteins, while HEVs were smaller, in general, and had a much higher protein diversity. YEVs were able to rescue the sensitivity of a cell wall mutant against calcofluor white, presumably due to the larger amount of cell wall proteins they contained. On the other hand, HEVs also contained many cytoplasmic proteins related to protein metabolism and intracellular protein transport and the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) pathway related to exosome biogenesis, pointing to an intracellular origin of HEVs. Interestingly, an active 20S proteasome complex was secreted exclusively in HEVs. Moreover, HEVs contained a greater number of virulence-related proteins. As for their immunogenic role, both types of EV presented immune reactivity with human sera from patients suffering invasive candidiasis; however, under our conditions, only HEVs showed a cytotoxic effect on human macrophages and could elicit the release of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) by these macrophages. IMPORTANCE This first analysis of HEVs of C. albicans has shown clear differences between them and the YEVs of C. albicans, showing their relevance and possible use in the discovery of new diagnostic markers and treatment targets against C. albicans infections. The data obtained point to different mechanisms of biogenesis of YEVs and HEVs, as well as different involvements in cell biology and host interaction. YEVs played a more relevant role in cell wall maintenance, while HEVs were more closely related to virulence, as they had greater effects on human immune cells. Importantly, an active 20S proteosome complex was described as a fungal-EV cargo. A deeper study of its role and those of many other proteins exclusively detected in HEVs and involved in different relevant biological processes of this fungus could open up interesting new areas of research in the battle against C. albicans.
PXD028447	35605723	The Lysine Acetylation Modification in the Porin Aha1 of Aeromonas hydrophila Regulates the Uptake of Multidrug Antibiotics. 	Acetylome reveals the lysine acetylation modifications on outer membrane protein Aha1 in Aeromonas hydrophila regulate the porin permeability to multidrug antibiotics	Aeromonas hydrophila, Aha1, lysine acetylation modifications	Protein lysine acetylation (Kac) modification plays important roles in diverse physiological functions. However, there is little evidence on the role of Kac modification in bacterial antibiotic resistance. Here, we compared the differential expressions of whole-cell proteins and Kac peptides in oxytetracycline sensitive and oxytetracycline resistance (OXY(R)) strains of Aeromonas hydrophila using quantitative proteomics technologies. We observed a porin family protein Aha1 downregulated in the OXY(R) strain, which may have an important role in the OXY resistance. Interestingly, seven of eight Kac peptides of Aha1 decreased abundance in OXY(R) as well. Microbiologic assays showed that the K57R, K187R, and K197R Aha1 mutants significantly increased antibiotic resistance to OXY and reduced the intracellular OXY accumulation in OXY stress. Moreover, these Aha1 mutants displayed multidrug resistance features to tetracyclines and beta-lactam antibiotics. The 3D model prediction showed that the Kac states of K57, K187, and K197 sites located at the extracellular pore vestibule of Aha1 may be involved in the uptake of specific types of antibiotics. Overall, our results indicate a novel antibiotic resistance mechanism mediated by Kac modification, which may provide a clue for the development of antibiotic therapy strategies.
PXD030916	35606510	An animal derivative-free medium enhances Lactobacillus johnsonii LJO02 supernatant selective efficacy against the methicillin (oxacillin)-resistant Staphylococcus aureus virulence through key-metabolites. 	An animal-free medium enhances Lactobacillus johnsonii LJO02 supernatant selective efficacy against the methicillin (oxacillin)-resistant Staphylococcus aureus virulence through key-metabolites	Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus, Lactobacillus johnsonii, SCFAs, Staphylococcus aureus, cell-free supernatants, proteimics	The spread of multidrug-resistant bacteria, such as the skin commensal Staphylococcus aureus, is a worldwide health challenge; new methods to counteract opportunistic pathogen growth and virulence are urgent. We compared the activity of Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus LR06 (DSM 21981) and Lactobacillus johnsonii LJO02 (DSM 33828) cell-free supernatants (CFSs) produced in the conventional animal derivative-based MRS medium and an innovative animal derivative-free broth (TIL) versus the MDR S. aureus (ATCC 43300). CFS influence was assessed towards the viability, metabolic activity, and ability to form biofilm of the MDR strain through optical density, alamarBlue assay, and crystal violet staining; their content in short-chain fatty acids, lactic acid, and proteins was analysed via high-resolution mass spectrometry and gas chromatography. All CFSs reduce viable and metabolically active S. aureus, being TIL more efficient compared to MRS in stimulating lactic acid bacteria metabolism and decreasing S. aureus biofilm formation. Particularly, the CFS from LJO02 grown in TIL has the best efficacy, revealing a high amount of lactic acid and 59 peculiar proteins; its effectiveness is partially maintained upon trypsin and proteinase K treatments, but not by pepsin and pH basification. Therefore, antagonistic CFSs may represent a strategic prevention approach, with bacteriotherapeutic and bio-repair potential.
PXD030395	35608653	In Vitro Kinase-to-Phosphosite Database (iKiP-DB) Predicts Kinase Activity in Phosphoproteomic Datasets. 	TMT proteomics and phosphoproteomics of SARS-CoV-2 infected Calu-3 cells	SARS-CoV-2, TMTpro, lung cell line, phosphoproteomics	Phosphoproteomics routinely quantifies changes in the levels of thousands of phosphorylation sites, but functional analysis of such data remains a major challenge. While databases like PhosphoSitePlus contain information about many phosphorylation sites, the vast majority of known sites is not assigned to any protein kinase. Assigning changes in the phosphoproteome to the activity of individual kinases therefore remains a key challenge. A recent large-scale study systematically identified in vitro substrates for most human protein kinases. Here, we reprocessed and filtered these data to generate an in vitro Kinase-to-Phosphosite database (iKiP-DB). We show that iKiP-DB can accurately predict changes in kinase activity in published phosphoproteomic data sets for both well-studied and poorly characterized kinases. We apply iKiP-DB to a newly generated phosphoproteomic analysis of SARS-CoV-2 infected human lung epithelial cells and provide evidence for coronavirus-induced changes in host cell kinase activity. In summary, we show that iKiP-DB is widely applicable to facilitate the functional analysis of phosphoproteomic data sets.
PXD027953	35609787	Differential Proteome and Interactome Analysis Reveal the Basis of Pleiotropy Associated With the Histidine Methyltransferase Hpm1p. 	Novel roles for ribosomal histidine methylation revealed by proteomics and large-scale cross-linking mass spectrometry	SILAC, cross-linking, histidine methylation	The methylation of histidine is a post-translational modification whose function is poorly understood. Methyltransferase histidine protein methyltransferase 1 (Hpm1p) monomethylates H243 in the ribosomal protein Rpl3p and represents the only known histidine methyltransferase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Interestingly, the hpm1 deletion strain is highly pleiotropic, with many extraribosomal phenotypes including improved growth rates in alternative carbon sources. Here, we investigate how the loss of histidine methyltransferase Hpm1p results in diverse phenotypes, through use of targeted mass spectrometry (MS), growth assays, quantitative proteomics, and differential crosslinking MS. We confirmed the localization and stoichiometry of the H243 methylation site, found unreported sensitivities of Deltahpm1 yeast to nonribosomal stressors, and identified differentially abundant proteins upon hpm1 knockout with clear links to the coordination of sugar metabolism. We adapted the emerging technique of quantitative large-scale stable isotope labeling of amino acids in cell culture crosslinking MS for yeast, which resulted in the identification of 1267 unique in vivo lysine-lysine crosslinks. By reproducibly monitoring over 350 of these in WT and Deltahpm1, we detected changes to protein structure or protein-protein interactions in the ribosome, membrane proteins, chromatin, and mitochondria. Importantly, these occurred independently of changes in protein abundance and could explain a number of phenotypes of Deltahpm1, not addressed by expression analysis. Further to this, some phenotypes were predicted solely from changes in protein structure or interactions and could be validated by orthogonal techniques. Taken together, these studies reveal a broad role for Hpm1p in yeast and illustrate how crosslinking MS will be an essential tool for understanding complex phenotypes.
PXD028992	35609998	Hexokinase 2 is a transcriptional target and a positive modulator of AHR signalling. 	Hexokinase 2 is a transcriptional targetHexokinase 2 is a transcriptional target and a positive modulator of AHR signalling and a positive modulator of AHR signalling	AHR, Hexokinase 2, IOsteosarcoma	The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AHR) regulates the expression of numerous genes in response to activation by agonists including xenobiotics. Although it is well appreciated that environmental signals and cell intrinsic features may modulate this transcriptional response, how it is mechanistically achieved remains poorly understood. We show that hexokinase 2 (HK2) a metabolic enzyme fuelling cancer cell growth, is a transcriptional target of AHR as well as a modulator of its activity. Expression of HK2 is positively regulated by AHR upon exposure to agonists both in human cells and in mice lung tissues. Conversely, over-expression of HK2 regulates the abundance of many proteins involved in the regulation of AHR signalling and these changes are linked with altered AHR expression levels and transcriptional activity. HK2 expression also shows a negative correlation with AHR promoter methylation in tumours, and these tumours with high HK2 expression and low AHR methylation are associated with a worse overall survival in patients. In sum, our study provides novel insights into how AHR signalling is regulated which may help our understanding of the context-specific effects of this pathway and may have implications in cancer.
PXD023368	35610211	The RNA-bound proteome of MRSA reveals post-transcriptional roles for helix-turn-helix DNA-binding and Rossmann-fold proteins. 	Global mapping of RNA-binding proteins in multi-drug resistant Staphylococcus aureus using 2C_1	RBDome, RBPome, RNA-binding proteins, Staphylococcus aureus, UV cross-linking, protein-RNA interactions, silica purification	RNA-binding proteins play key roles in controlling gene expression in many organisms, but relatively few have been identified and characterised in detail in Gram-positive bacteria. Here, we globally analyse RNA-binding proteins in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) using two complementary biochemical approaches. We identify hundreds of putative RNA-binding proteins, many containing unconventional RNA-binding domains such as Rossmann-fold domains. Remarkably, more than half of the proteins containing helix-turn-helix (HTH) domains, which are frequently found in prokaryotic transcription factors, bind RNA in vivo. In particular, the CcpA transcription factor, a master regulator of carbon metabolism, uses its HTH domain to bind hundreds of RNAs near intrinsic transcription terminators in vivo. We propose that CcpA, besides acting as a transcription factor, post-transcriptionally regulates the stability of many RNAs.
PXD031526	35610722	Systematic identification of the lysine lactylation in the protozoan parasite Toxoplasma gondii. 	Systematic Identification of the Lysine lactylation in the Protozoan Parasite Toxoplasma gondii	Toxoplasma gondii, lysine lactylation	BACKGROUND: Lysine lactylation (Kla) is a novelposttranslational modification (PTM) identified in histone and nonhistone proteins of several eukaryotic cells that directly activates gene expression and DNA replication. However, very little is known about the scope and cellular distribution of Kla in apicomplexan parasites despite its significance in public and animal health care. METHODS: Toxoplasma gondii, the causative agent of toxoplasmosis, is an obligate intracellular apicomplexan parasite that can infect different nucleated cell types of animals and humans. We used this parasite as a model organism and extracted the total protein of tachyzoites to produce the first global lysine lactylome profile of T. gondii through liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. We also investigated the level and localization of the Kla protein in T. gondii using western blotting and the indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFA), respectively. RESULTS: A total of 983 Kla sites occurring on 523 lactylated proteins were identified in the total protein extracted from Toxoplasma tachyzoites, the acute toxoplasmosis-causing stage. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that the lactylated proteins were evolutionarily conserved and involved in a wide variety of cellular functions, such as energy metabolism, gene regulation and protein biosynthesis. Subcellular localization analysis and IFA results further revealed that most of the lactylated T. gondii proteins were localized in the nucleus, indicating the potential impact of Kla on gene regulation in the T. gondii model. Notably, an extensive batch of parasite-specific proteins unique to phylum Apicomplexa is lactylated in T. gondii. CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed that Kla is widespread in early dividing eukaryotic cells. Lactylated proteins, including a batch of unique parasite proteins, are involved in a remarkably diverse array of cellular functions. These valuable data will improve our understanding of the evolution of Kla and potentially provide the basis for developing novel therapeutic avenues.
PXD027456	35611312	Proteomic characterization of post-mortem human brain tissue following ultracentrifugation-based subcellular fractionation. 	Proteomic Characterization of Post-Mortem Human Brain Tissue Following Ultracentrifugation-based Subcellular Fractionation	Alzheimers Disease, Human Brain, Label Free Quantitation, Subcellular Fractionation	Proteomic characterization of human brain tissue is increasingly utilized to identify potential novel biomarkers and drug targets for a variety of neurological diseases. In whole-tissue studies, results may be driven by changes in the proportion of the largest and most abundant organelles or tissue cell-type composition. Spatial proteomics approaches enhance our knowledge of disease mechanisms and changing signalling pathways at the subcellular level by taking into account the importance of cellular localization, which critically influences protein function. Density gradient-based ultracentrifugation methods allow for subcellular fractionation and have been utilized in cell lines, mouse and human brain tissue to quantify thousands of proteins in specific enriched organelles such as the pre- and post-synapse. Serial ultracentrifugation methods allow for the analysis of multiple cellular organelles from the same biological sample, and to our knowledge have not been previously applied to frozen post-mortem human brain tissue. The use of frozen human tissue for tissue fractionation faces two major challenges, the post-mortem interval, during which proteins may leach from their usual location into the cytosol, and freezing, which results in membrane breakdown. Despite these challenges, in this proof-of-concept study, we show that the majority of proteins segregate reproducibly into crude density-based centrifugation fractions, that the fractions are enriched for the appropriate organellar markers and that significant differences in protein localization can be observed between tissue from individuals with Alzheimer's disease and control individuals.
PXD032821	35613060	Improved Peptide Backbone Fragmentation Is the Primary Advantage of MS-Cleavable Crosslinkers. 	Improved peptide backbone fragmentation is the primary advantage of MS-cleavable crosslinkers	CLMS, Crosslinking, DSBU, DSSO, MS-cleavable crosslinker	Proteome-wide crosslinking mass spectrometry studies have coincided with the advent of mass spectrometry (MS)-cleavable crosslinkers that can reveal the individual masses of the two crosslinked peptides. However, recently, such studies have also been published with noncleavable crosslinkers, suggesting that MS-cleavability is not essential. We therefore examined in detail the advantages and disadvantages of using the commonly used MS-cleavable crosslinker, disuccinimidyl sulfoxide (DSSO). Indeed, DSSO gave rise to signature peptide fragments with a distinct mass difference (doublet) for nearly all identified crosslinked peptides. Surprisingly, we could show that it was not these peptide masses that proved the main advantage of MS cleavability of the crosslinker, but improved peptide backbone fragmentation which reduces the ambiguity of peptide identifications. This also holds true for another commonly used MS-cleavable crosslinker, DSBU. We show furthermore that the more intricate MS3-based data acquisition approaches lack sensitivity and specificity, causing them to be outperformed by the simpler and faster stepped higher-energy collisional dissociation (HCD) method. This understanding will guide future developments and applications of proteome-wide crosslinking mass spectrometry.
PXD030038	35613471	Engineered SH2 Domains for Targeted Phosphoproteomics. 	Engineering human SH2 domains for targeted phospho-proteomics	K562, SH2 superbinders, Src Homology 2 Domains, phosphoproteomics, phosphotyrosine, protein engineering, structural biology, synthetic biology	A comprehensive analysis of the phosphoproteome is essential for understanding molecular mechanisms of human diseases. However, current tools used to enrich phosphotyrosine (pTyr) are limited in their applicability and scope. Here, we engineered new superbinder Src-Homology 2 (SH2) domains that enrich diverse sets of pTyr-peptides. We used phage display to select a Fes-SH2 domain variant (superFes; sFes(1)) with high affinity for pTyr and solved its structure bound to a pTyr-peptide. We performed systematic structure-function analyses of the superbinding mechanisms of sFes(1) and superSrc-SH2 (sSrc(1)), another SH2 superbinder. We grafted the superbinder motifs from sFes(1) and sSrc(1) into 17 additional SH2 domains and confirmed increased binding affinity for specific pTyr-peptides. Using mass spectrometry (MS), we demonstrated that SH2 superbinders have distinct specificity profiles and superior capabilities to enrich pTyr-peptides. Finally, using combinations of SH2 superbinders as affinity purification (AP) tools we showed that unique subsets of pTyr-peptides can be enriched with unparalleled depth and coverage.
PXD025726	35613580	Redox-sensitive E2 Rad6 controls cellular response to oxidative stress via K63-linked ubiquitination of ribosomes. 	E2 Rad6 controls cellular response to oxidative stress	E1, K63 ubiquitin, Rad6, oxidative stress	Protein ubiquitination is an essential process that rapidly regulates protein synthesis, function, and fate in dynamic environments. Within its non-proteolytic functions, we showed that K63-linked polyubiquitinated conjugates heavily accumulate in yeast cells exposed to oxidative stress, stalling ribosomes at elongation. K63-ubiquitinated conjugates accumulate mostly because of redox inhibition of the deubiquitinating enzyme Ubp2; however, the role and regulation of ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (E2) in this pathway remained unclear. Here, we show that the E2 Rad6 associates and modifies ribosomes during stress. We further demonstrate that Rad6 and its human homolog UBE2A are redox regulated by forming a reversible disulfide with the E1 ubiquitin-activating enzyme (Uba1). This redox regulation is part of a negative feedback regulation, which controls the levels of K63 ubiquitination under stress. Finally, we show that Rad6 activity is necessary to regulate translation, antioxidant defense, and adaptation to stress, thus providing an additional physiological role for this multifunctional enzyme.
PXD032321	35613595	Oxygen level regulates N-terminal translation elongation of selected proteins through deoxyhypusine hydroxylation. 	Oxygen level regulates protein N-terminal translation elongation through deoxyhypusine hydroxylation	Oxygen, SILAC, deoxyhupusine, hypusine	Hypusine is a post-translational modification on eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (eIF5A). The last step of hypusine biosynthesis, deoxyhypusine hydroxylation, is an oxygen-dependent reaction. Here we show that deletion of the deoxyhypusine hydroxylase Lia1 compromises yeast respiration through translation downregulation of selected proteins in the respiration pathway. The translation suppression, because of the lack of deoxyhypusine hydroxylation, mainly affects translation of the N termini of the proteins, independent of the presence of proline residues but likely dependent on the interaction between the N-terminal nascent peptide and the ribosomal peptide exit tunnel. Proteomics and biochemical studies reveal that Lia1 deletion decreases N-terminal translation of proteins involved in mitochondrial respiration, oxidative stress response, and protein folding. Our work uncovers functions of the hypusine modification by considering the substrate requirement of the post-translational modification, highlights the unique challenges of translating the N termini of proteins, and reveals an oxygen-sensing mechanism in eukaryotic cells.
PXD031509	35613844	IL-20 subfamily cytokines impair the oesophageal epithelial barrier by diminishing filaggrin in eosinophilic oesophagitis. 	Aberrant IL-20 Subfamily Signaling Disturbs Epithelial Barrier Function in Eosinophilic Esophagitis	EoE, TMT, inflammation	OBJECTIVE: Disruption of the epithelial barrier plays an essential role in developing eosinophilic oesophagitis (EoE), a disease defined by type 2 helper T cell (Th2)-mediated food-associated and aeroallergen-associated chronic inflammation. Although an increased expression of interleukin (IL)-20 subfamily members, IL-19, IL-20 and IL-24, in Th2-mediated diseases has been reported, their function in EoE remains unknown. DESIGN: Combining transcriptomic, proteomic and functional analyses, we studied the importance of the IL-20 subfamily for EoE using patient-derived oesophageal three-dimensional models and an EoE mouse model. RESULTS: Patients with active EoE have increased expression of IL-20 subfamily cytokines in the oesophagus and serum. In patient-derived oesophageal organoids stimulated with IL-20 cytokines, RNA sequencing and mass spectrometry revealed a downregulation of genes and proteins forming the cornified envelope, including filaggrins. On the contrary, abrogation of IL-20 subfamily signalling in Il20R2 (-/-) animals resulted in attenuated experimental EoE reflected by reduced eosinophil infiltration, lower Th2 cytokine expression and preserved expression of filaggrins in the oesophagus. Mechanistically, these observations were mediated by the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK); extracellular-signal regulated kinases (ERK)1/2) pathway. Its blockade prevented epithelial barrier impairment in patient-derived air-liquid interface cultures stimulated with IL-20 cytokines and attenuated experimental EoE in mice. CONCLUSION: Our findings reveal a previously unknown regulatory role of the IL-20 subfamily for oesophageal barrier function in the context of EoE. We propose that aberrant IL-20 subfamily signalling disturbs the oesophageal epithelial barrier integrity and promotes EoE development. Our study suggests that specific targeting of the IL-20 subfamily signalling pathway may present a novel strategy for the treatment of EoE.
PXD026673	35614104	Proteomic profiling of concurrently isolated primary microvascular endothelial cells, pericytes, and vascular smooth muscle cells from adult mouse heart. 	Proteomic Profiling of Concurrently Isolated Primary Microvascular Endothelial Cells, Pericytes, and Smooth Muscle Cells from Adult Mouse Heart (ALK1571, PSR-OHSU)	PSR-OHSU, TMT labeling, endothelial cells, microvascular, mouse heart, pericytes, primary culture, quantitative proteomics, vascular smooth muscle cells	The microcirculation serves crucial functions in adult heart, distinct from those carried out by epicardial vessels. Microvessels are governed by unique regulatory mechanisms, impairment of which leads to microvessel-specific pathology. There are few treatment options for patients with microvascular heart disease, primarily due to limited understanding of underlying pathology. High throughput mRNA sequencing and protein expression profiling in specific cells can improve our understanding of microvessel biology and disease at the molecular level. Understanding responses of individual microvascular cells to the same physiological or pathophysiological stimuli requires the ability to isolate the specific cell types that comprise the functional units of the microcirculation in the heart, preferably from the same heart, to ensure that different cells have been exposed to the same in-vivo conditions. We developed an integrated process for simultaneous isolation and culture of the main cell types comprising the microcirculation in adult mouse heart: endothelial cells, pericytes, and vascular smooth muscle cells. These cell types were characterized with isobaric labeling quantitative proteomics and mRNA sequencing. We defined microvascular cell proteomes, identified novel protein markers, and confirmed established cell-specific markers. Our results allow identification of unique markers and regulatory proteins that govern microvascular physiology and pathology.
PXD032302	35614983	FIP-fve Stimulates Cell Proliferation and Enhances IL-2 Release by Activating MAP2K3/p38alpha (MAPK14) Signaling Pathway in Jurkat E6-1 Cells. 	FIP-fve stimulates cell proliferation and enhances IL-2 release by activating MAP2K3/p38alpha(MAPK14)signaling pathway in Jurkat E6-1 cells	FIP-fve, IL-2, MAP2K3/p38alpha, immunomodulation mechanism, proteomics analysis	FIP-fve, a fungal fruiting body protein from Flammulina velutipes, has potential immunomodulatory properties. Here, we investigated the immunomodulation mechanism of FIP-fve in Jurkat E6-1 cells by conducting a cell viability assay and IL-2 release assay. Kinase inhibitors experiment and proteomics analysis were also involved in the mechanism study. It was found that FIP-fve stimulated cell proliferation and enhanced IL-2 secretion in a dose-dependent manner in Jurkat E6-1 cells. Unbiased high-throughput proteomics analysis showed that 4 T cell immune activation markers, including ZAP-70, CD69, CD82, and KIF23, were upregulated in response to FIP-fve treatment. Further pathway analysis indicated that MAP2K3/p38 pathway-related proteins, including MAP2K, p38, ELK, AATF, FOS, and JUN-B, were unregulated. In addition, losmapimod (p38 inhibitor) and gossypetin (MAP2K3 inhibitor) inhibited FIP-fve enhanced cell proliferation and IL-2 release in Jurkat E6-1 cells. Our results demonstrate that FIP-fve stimulates cell proliferation and enhances IL-2 secretion through MAP2K3/p38alpha activation.
PXD031652	35615451	Integration of Urine Proteomic and Metabolomic Profiling Reveals Novel Insights Into Neuroinflammation in Autism Spectrum Disorder. 	Integration of Urine Proteomic and Metabolomic profiling Reveals Novel Insights into Neuroimmune Dysfunction in Autism Spectrum Disorder	Autism spectrum disorder, Children, Urine	Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) comprises a group of neurodevelopmental disorders whose etiology and pathogenesis are not fully understood. To gain insight into the molecular basis of ASD, we performed comparative integrated proteomic and metabolomic analyses of urine samples from children diagnosed with ASD and healthy children. All 160 samples underwent proteomics analysis and 60 were analyzed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to obtain metabolite profiles. We identified 77 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs; 21 downregulated and 56 upregulated) and 277 differentially expressed metabolites; 31 of the DEPs including glutathione, leukocyte antigens, glycoproteins, neural adhesion factors, and immunoglobulins, have been implicated in neuroinflammation. The proteomic analysis also revealed 8 signaling pathways that were significantly dysregulated in ASD patients; 3 of these (transendothelial leukocyte migration, antigen processing and presentation, and graft vs. host disease) were associated with the neuroimmune response. The metabolism of tryptophan, which is also related to the neuroimmune response, has been found to play a potential role in ASD. Integrated proteome and metabolome analysis showed that 6 signaling pathways were significantly enriched in ASD patients, 3 of which were correlated with impaired neuroinflammation (glutathione metabolism, metabolism of xenobiotics by cytochrome P450 and transendothelial migration of leukocyte). We also found a correlation between prostaglandin (PG) E2 levels and the inflammatory response in ASD. These results underscore the prominent role of the neuroimmune response in ASD and provide potential biomarkers that can be used for diagnosis or as targets for early intervention.
PXD032021	35615519	Proteomic Analysis Revealed Metabolic Inhibition and Elongation Factor Tu Deamidation by p-Coumaric Acid in Cronobacter sakazakii. 	Proteomic changes of C. sakazakii BAA-894 exposed to p-coumaric acid	Cronobacter sakazakii, p coumaric acid, proteome profiling	Screening drugs and compounds to fight against Cronobacter sakazakii (C. sakazakii), one of the most common pathogens that can cause fatal necrotizing enterocolitis, septicema and meningitis, is still needed. We found that p-coumaric acid (pCA) has an inhibitory effect on C. sakazakii in vitro and in vivo. Proteomic changes of C. sakazakii BAA-894 exposed to pCA were studied to reveal the antibacterial mechanisms involved. A total of 1,553 proteins were identified in C. sakazakii BAA-894 by label-free proteomics analysis. Fuzzy cluster analysis showed that 33 were up-regulated, and 110 were down-regulated with pCA treatment. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis concluded that pCA caused the change of metabolic state of bacteria and generally in the state of metabolic inhibition. KEGG Enrichment Analysis (KEGG) analysis showed that pCA inhibited energy metabolism and distorted the balance of amino acid metabolism. Posttranslational modification analysis showed that pCA affected the deamidation of three proteins, including Elongation factor Tu, one of the vital proteins in bacteria. Molecular docking suggested the hydrogen bond between the pCA carboxyl group and Elongation factor Tu Asn-64 might contribute to deamidation. Overall, we found that pCA interfered with cellular energy and amino acid metabolism and promoted elongation factor Tu deamidation, suggesting that pCA can be an effective natural substitute to control C. sakazakii.
PXD031891	35615594	HIV-1 gp120 Impairs Spatial Memory Through Cyclic AMP Response Element-Binding Protein. 	HIV-1 gp120 impairs spatial memory through CREB	CREB protein, HIV, Mitochondria, Rolipram, neurodegeneration	HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) remain an unsolved problem that persists despite using antiretroviral therapy. We have obtained data showing that HIV-gp120 protein contributes to neurodegeneration through metabolic reprogramming. This led to decreased ATP levels, lower mitochondrial DNA copy numbers, and loss of mitochondria cristae, all-important for mitochondrial biogenesis. gp120 protein also disrupted mitochondrial movement and synaptic plasticity. Searching for the mechanisms involved, we found that gp120 alters the cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation on serine residue 133 necessary for its function as a transcription factor. Since CREB regulates the promoters of PGC1alpha and BDNF genes, we found that CREB dephosphorylation causes PGC1alpha and BDNF loss of functions. The data was validated in vitro and in vivo. The negative effect of gp120 was alleviated in cells and animals in the presence of rolipram, an inhibitor of phosphodiesterase protein 4 (PDE4), restoring CREB phosphorylation. We concluded that HIV-gp120 protein contributes to HAND via inhibition of CREB protein function.
PXD032315	35616533	Development of a Method Combining Peptidiscs and Proteomics to Identify, Stabilize, and Purify a Detergent-Sensitive Membrane Protein Assembly. 	Development of a Method Combining Peptidiscs and Proteomics to Identify, Stabilize and Purify a Detergent-Sensitive Membrane Protein Assembly	Peptidisc, Sec translocon, membrane protein complexes, membrane proteome	The peptidisc membrane mimetic enables global reconstitution of the bacterial membrane proteome into water-soluble detergent-free particles, termed peptidisc libraries. We present here a method that combines peptidisc libraries and chromosomal-level gene tagging technology with affinity purification and mass spectrometry (AP/MS) to stabilize and identify fragile membrane protein complexes that exist at native expression levels. This method circumvents common artifacts caused by bait protein overproduction and protein complex dissociation due to lengthy exposure to detergents during protein isolation. Using the Escherichia coli Sec system as a case study, we identify an expanded version of the translocon, termed the HMD complex, consisting of nine different integral membrane subunits. This complex is stable in peptidiscs but dissociates in detergents. Guided by this native-level proteomic information, we design and validate a procedure that enables purification of the HMD complex with minimal protein dissociation. These results highlight the utility of peptidiscs and AP/MS to discover and stabilize fragile membrane protein assemblies. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD032315.
PXD029264	35617122	Perception of a conserved family of plant signalling peptides by the receptor kinase HSL3. 	Perception of a conserved family of plant signaling peptides by the receptor kinase HSL3	immunity, receptor	Plant genomes encode hundreds of secreted peptides; however, relatively few have been characterised. We report here an uncharacterised, stress-induced family of plant signalling peptides, which we call CTNIPs. Based on the role of the common co-receptor BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1-ASSOCIATED KINASE 1 (BAK1) in CTNIP-induced responses, we identified in Arabidopsis thaliana the orphan receptor kinase HAESA-LIKE 3 (HSL3) as the CTNIP receptor via a proteomics approach. CTNIP-binding, ligand-triggered complex formation with BAK1, and induced downstream responses all involve HSL3. Notably, the HSL3-CTNIP signalling module is evolutionarily conserved amongst most extant angiosperms. The identification of this novel signalling module will further shed light on the diverse functions played by plant signalling peptides and will provide insights into receptor-ligand co-evolution.
PXD031300	35618212	Quantitative proteomics reveals the antibiotics adaptation mechanism of Aeromonas hydrophila under kanamycin stress. 	Quantitative proteomics reveals the antibiotics adaptive mechanism of Aeromonas hydrophila in kanamycin stress	Aeromonas hydrophila, Antibiotics resistance, kanamycin, quantitative proteomics, stress related proteins	Aeromonas hydrophila is a widespread opportunistic pathogen of aquatic fishes in freshwater habitats. The current emergence of antimicrobial-resistant A. hydrophila has been reported in the world while the bacterial antibiotics adaptive mechanism remains poorly explored. In this study, using quantitative proteomics technology, the behavior of A. hydrophila was investigated by comparing the differentially expression proteins between with and without kanamycin (KAN) treatment. A total of 374 altered proteins including 184 increasing and 190 proteins decreasing abundances were quantified when responding to KAN stress. The bioinformatics analysis showed that stress related proteins were hub proteins that significantly increased to reduce the pressure from the misreading of mRNA caused by KAN. Moreover, several metallic pathways, such as oxidative phosphorylation and TCA cycle pathways may affect KAN resistance. Finally, eight selected genes were deleted and their antibiotics susceptibilities to kanamycin were valued, respectively. Results showed that OmpA II family protein A0KI26, and two-component system protein AtoC may involve in the KAN resistance in this study. In general, our results provide an insight into the behaviors of bacterial responding to KAN stress, and demonstrate the intrinsic antibiotics adaptive mechanism of A. hydrophila. BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: In this study, the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) of A. hydrophila strain between with and without kanamycin (KAN) were compared by using a data-independent acquisition (DIA) - based quantitative proteomics method. Bioinformatics analysis showed that stress - related proteins are hub proteins that significantly increased under KAN stress. Moreover, several metallic pathways, such as oxidative phosphorylation and citrate cycle (TCA cycle) pathways, can affect KAN resistance. Finally, our antibiotics susceptibility assay showed that the protein A0KI26 of the OmpA II family, and the AtoC of the two-component system may involve in KAN resistance in this study. These results provide insights into the antibiotics adaptation mechanism of A. hydrophila when responding to KAN stress.
PXD032292	35618225	Identification and Analysis of Six Phosphorylation Sites Within the Xenopus laevis Linker Histone H1.0 C-Terminal Domain Indicate Distinct Effects on Nucleosome Structure. 	Identification and analysis of phosphorylation within Xenopus laevis linker histone H1.0	Identification and analysis of phosphorylation within Xenopus laevis linker histone H1.0	As a key structural component of the chromatin of higher eukaryotes, linker histones (H1s) are involved in stabilizing the folding of extended nucleosome arrays into higher-order chromatin structures and function as a gene-specific regulator of transcription in vivo. The H1 C-terminal domain (CTD) is essential for high-affinity binding of linker histones to chromatin and stabilization of higher-order chromatin structure. Importantly, the H1 CTD is an intrinsically disordered domain that undergoes a drastic condensation upon binding to nucleosomes. Moreover, although phosphorylation is a prevalent post-translational modification within the H1 CTD, exactly where this modification is installed and how phosphorylation influences the structure of the H1 CTD remains unclear for many H1s. Using novel mass spectrometry techniques, we identified six phosphorylation sites within the CTD of the archetypal linker histone Xenopus H1.0. We then analyzed nucleosome-dependent CTD condensation and H1-dependent linker DNA organization for H1.0 in which the phosphorylated serine residues were replaced by glutamic acid residues (phosphomimics) in six independent mutants. We find that phosphomimetics at residues S117E, S155E, S181E, S188E, and S192E resulted in a significant reduction in nucleosome-bound H1.0 CTD condensation compared with unphosphorylated H1.0, whereas S130E did not alter CTD structure. Furthermore, we found distinct effects among the phosphomimetics on H1-dependent linker DNA trajectory, indicating unique mechanisms by which this modification can influence H1 CTD condensation. These results bring to light a novel role for linker histone phosphorylation in directly altering the structure of nucleosome-bound H1 and a potential novel mechanism for its effects on chromatin structure and function.
PXD032769	35618718	The long noncoding RNA ADIPINT regulates human adipocyte metabolism via pyruvate carboxylase. 	The long noncoding RNA ADIPINT regulates human adipocyte metabolism via pyruvate carboxylase	Human Adipocyte TROOPS RNA-Interaction Pyruvate Carboxylase Metabolism	The pleiotropic function of long noncoding RNAs is well recognized, but their direct role in governing metabolic homeostasis is less understood. Here, we describe a human adipocyte-specific lncRNA, ADIPINT, that regulates pyruvate carboxylase, a pivotal enzyme in energy metabolism. We developed an approach, Targeted RNA-protein identification using Orthogonal Organic Phase Separation, which identifies that ADIPINT binds to pyruvate carboxylase and validated the interaction with electron microscopy. ADIPINT knockdown alters the interactome and decreases the abundance and enzymatic activity of pyruvate carboxylase in the mitochondria. Reduced ADIPINT or pyruvate carboxylase expression lowers adipocyte lipid synthesis, breakdown, and lipid content. In human white adipose tissue, ADIPINT expression is increased in obesity and linked to fat cell size, adipose insulin resistance, and pyruvate carboxylase activity. Thus, we identify ADIPINT as a regulator of lipid metabolism in human white adipocytes, which at least in part is mediated through its interaction with pyruvate carboxylase.
PXD029467	35618735	Homophilic ATP1A1 binding induces activin A secretion to promote EMT of tumor cells and myofibroblast activation. 	Identification of homophilic ATP1A1 interaction between tumor cells and fibroblasts	ATP1A1, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), cell-cell contact, fibroblast, membrane protein, pancreatic cancer	Tumor cells with diverse phenotypes and biological behaviors are influenced by stromal cells through secretory factors or direct cell-cell contact. Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is characterized by extensive desmoplasia with fibroblasts as the major cell type. In the present study, we observe enrichment of myofibroblasts in a juxta-tumoral position with tumor cells undergoing epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) that facilitates invasion and correlates with a worse clinical prognosis in PDAC patients. Direct cell-cell contacts forming heterocellular aggregates between fibroblasts and tumor cells are detected in primary pancreatic tumors and circulating tumor microemboli (CTM). Mechanistically, ATP1A1 overexpressed in tumor cells binds to and reorganizes ATP1A1 of fibroblasts that induces calcium oscillations, NF-kappaB activation, and activin A secretion. Silencing ATP1A1 expression or neutralizing activin A secretion suppress tumor invasion and colonization. Taken together, these results elucidate the direct interplay between tumor cells and bound fibroblasts in PDAC progression, thereby providing potential therapeutic opportunities for inhibiting metastasis by interfering with these cell-cell interactions.
PXD032802	35619118	New molecular mechanisms in cholangiocarcinoma: signals triggering interleukin-6 production in tumor cells and KRAS co-opted epigenetic mediators driving metabolic reprogramming. 	New molecular mechanisms in cholangiocarcinoma: signals triggering interleukin-6 production in tumor cells and KRAS co-opted epigenetic mediators driving metabolic reprogramming.	Cholangiocarcinoma, G9a histone methyl-transferase, KRAS, bile, inflammation, interleukin-6, metabolic reprogramming., serine-glycine pathway	BACKGROUND: Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is still a deadly tumour. Histological and molecular aspects of thioacetamide (TAA)-induced intrahepatic CCA (iCCA) in rats mimic those of human iCCA. Carcinogenic changes and therapeutic vulnerabilities in CCA may be captured by molecular investigations in bile, where we performed bile proteomic and metabolomic analyses that help discovery yet unknown pathways relevant to human iCCA. METHODS: Cholangiocarcinogenesis was induced in rats (TAA) and mice (Jnk(Deltahepa) + CCl4 + DEN model). We performed proteomic and metabolomic analyses in bile from control and CCA-bearing rats. Differential expression was validated in rat and human CCAs. Mechanisms were addressed in human CCA cells, including Huh28-KRAS(G12D) cells. Cell signaling, growth, gene regulation and [U-(13)C]-D-glucose-serine fluxomics analyses were performed. In vivo studies were performed in the clinically-relevant iCCA mouse model. RESULTS: Pathways related to inflammation, oxidative stress and glucose metabolism were identified by proteomic analysis. Oxidative stress and high amounts of the oncogenesis-supporting amino acids serine and glycine were discovered by metabolomic studies. Most relevant hits were confirmed in rat and human CCAs (TCGA). Activation of interleukin-6 (IL6) and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) pathways, and key genes in cancer-related glucose metabolic reprogramming, were validated in TAA-CCAs. In TAA-CCAs, G9a, an epigenetic pro-tumorigenic writer, was also increased. We show that EGFR signaling and mutant KRAS(G12D) can both activate IL6 production in CCA cells. Furthermore, phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH), the rate-limiting enzyme in serine-glycine pathway, was upregulated in human iCCA correlating with G9a expression. In a G9a activity-dependent manner, KRAS(G12D) promoted PHGDH expression, glucose flow towards serine synthesis, and increased CCA cell viability. KRAS(G12D) CAA cells were more sensitive to PHGDH and G9a inhibition than controls. In mouse iCCA, G9a pharmacological targeting reduced PHGDH expression. CONCLUSIONS: In CCA, we identified new pro-tumorigenic mechanisms: Activation of EGFR signaling or KRAS mutation drives IL6 expression in tumour cells; Glucose metabolism reprogramming in iCCA includes activation of the serine-glycine pathway; Mutant KRAS drives PHGDH expression in a G9a-dependent manner; PHGDH and G9a emerge as therapeutic targets in iCCA.
PXD032375	35620914	A bacterial effector counteracts host autophagy by promoting degradation of an autophagy component. 	Identification of ubquitination sites in SH3P2	bacteria, effector proteins, plant	Beyond its role in cellular homeostasis, autophagy plays anti- and promicrobial roles in host-microbe interactions, both in animals and plants. One prominent role of antimicrobial autophagy is to degrade intracellular pathogens or microbial molecules, in a process termed xenophagy. Consequently, microbes evolved mechanisms to hijack or modulate autophagy to escape elimination. Although well-described in animals, the extent to which xenophagy contributes to plant-bacteria interactions remains unknown. Here, we provide evidence that Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria (Xcv) suppresses host autophagy by utilizing type-III effector XopL. XopL interacts with and degrades the autophagy component SH3P2 via its E3 ligase activity to promote infection. Intriguingly, XopL is targeted for degradation by defense-related selective autophagy mediated by NBR1/Joka2, revealing a complex antagonistic interplay between XopL and the host autophagy machinery. Our results implicate plant antimicrobial autophagy in the depletion of a bacterial virulence factor and unravel an unprecedented pathogen strategy to counteract defense-related autophagy in plant-bacteria interactions.
PXD030932	35621049	N-acetylation of secreted proteins in Apicomplexa is widespread and is independent of the ER acetyl-CoA transporter AT1. 	Characterization of lysine acetylation in Toxoplasma gondii proteome lacking acetyl-CoA transporter 1 (AT1).	Toxoplasma gondii, acetyl-CoA transporter 1, lysine acetylation, nanoLC-MS/MS	Acetyl-CoA participates in post-translational modification of proteins and in central carbon and lipid metabolism in several cell compartments. In mammals, acetyl-CoA transporter 1 (AT1, also known as SLC33A1) facilitates the flux of cytosolic acetyl-CoA into the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), enabling the acetylation of proteins of the secretory pathway, in concert with the activity of dedicated acetyltransferases such as NAT8. However, the involvement of the ER acetyl-CoA pool in acetylation of ER-transiting proteins in Apicomplexa is unknown. Here, we identified homologs of AT1 and NAT8 in Toxoplasma gondii and Plasmodium berghei parasites. Proteome-wide analyses revealed widespread N-terminal acetylation of secreted proteins in both species. Such extensive acetylation of N-terminally processed proteins has not been observed previously in any other organism. Deletion of AT1 homologs in both T. gondii and P. berghei resulted in considerable reductions in parasite fitness. In P. berghei, AT1 was found to be important for growth of asexual blood stages, production of female gametocytes and male gametocytogenesis, implying its requirement for parasite transmission. In the absence of AT1, lysine acetylation and N-terminal acetylation in T. gondii remained globally unaltered, suggesting an uncoupling between the role of AT1 in development and active acetylation occurring along the secretory pathway.
PXD031923	35622101	Cannabinoids modulate proliferation, differentiation, and migration signaling pathways in oligodendrocytes. 	Cannabinoids modulate proliferation, differentiation, and migration signaling pathways in oligodendrocytes	CB1, CB2, cannabidiol, endocannabinoids	Cannabinoid signaling, mainly via CB1 and CB2 receptors, plays an essential role in oligodendrocyte health and functions. However, the specific molecular signals associated with the activation or blockade of CB1 and CB2 receptors in this glial cell have yet to be elucidated. Mass spectrometry-based shotgun proteomics and in silico biology tools were used to determine which signaling pathways and molecular mechanisms are triggered in a human oligodendrocytic cell line (MO3.13) by several pharmacological stimuli: the phytocannabinoid cannabidiol (CBD); CB1 and CB2 agonists ACEA, HU308, and WIN55, 212-2; CB1 and CB2 antagonists AM251 and AM630; and endocannabinoids anandamide (AEA) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG). The modulation of cannabinoid signaling in MO3.13 was found to affect pathways linked to cell proliferation, migration, and differentiation of oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. Additionally, we found that carbohydrate and lipid metabolism, as well as mitochondrial function, were modulated by these compounds. Comparing the proteome changes and upstream regulators among treatments, the highest overlap was between the CB1 and CB2 antagonists, followed by overlaps between AEA and 2-AG. Our study opens new windows of opportunities, suggesting that cannabinoid signaling in oligodendrocytes might be relevant in the context of demyelinating and neurodegenerative diseases. Proteomics data are available at ProteomeXchange (PXD031923).
PXD029046	35622142	Quantitative phosphoproteomics reveals diverse stimuli activate distinct signaling pathways during neutrophil activation. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomics reveals diverse stimuli activate distinct signaling pathways during neutrophil activation	Homocysteine, Hyperglycemia, Infections, Neutrophils, Type 2 Diabetes	Neutrophils display functional heterogeneity upon responding diversely to physiological and pathological stimulations. During type 2 diabetes (T2D), hyperglycemia constitutively activates neutrophils, leading to reduced response to infections and on the other hand, elevated metabolic intermediates such as homocysteine induce bidirectional activation of platelets and neutrophils leading to thrombosis. Hence, in the context of T2D-associated complications, we examined the influence of high glucose, homocysteine, and LPS representing effector molecules of hyperglycemia, thrombosis, and infection, respectively, on human neutrophil activation to identify distinct signaling pathways by quantitative phosphoproteomics approach. High glucose activated C-Jun-N-Terminal Kinase, NTRK1, SYK, and PRKACA kinases associated with Rho GTPase signaling and phagocytosis, whereas LPS induced AKT1, SRPK2, CSNK2A1, and TTN kinases involved in cytokine signaling and inflammatory response. Homocysteine treatment led to activatation of  LRRK2, FGR, MAPK3, and PRKCD kinases which are associated with neutrophil degranulation and cytoskeletal remodeling. Diverse inducers differentially modulated phosphorylation of proteins associated with neutrophil functions such as oxidative burst, degranulation, extracellular traps, and phagocytosis. Further validation of phosphoproteomics data on selected kinases revealed neutrophils pre-cultured under high glucose showed impeded response to LPS to phosphorylate p-ERK1/2(Thr202/Tyr204), p-AKT(Ser473), and C-Jun-N-Terminal Kinase(Ser63) kinases. Our study provides novel phosphoproteome signatures that may be explored to understand neutrophil biology in T2D-associated complications.
PXD033537	35622604	Venomics of the Central European Myrmicine Ants Myrmica rubra and Myrmica ruginodis. 	Venomics of the Central-European Myrmicine Ants Myrmica rubra and Myrmica ruginodis	Ants, Venomics, insect venom, proteo-transcriptomics	Animal venoms are a rich source of novel biomolecules with potential applications in medicine and agriculture. Ants are one of the most species-rich lineages of venomous animals. However, only a fraction of their biodiversity has been studied so far. Here, we investigated the venom components of two myrmicine (subfamily Myrmicinae) ants: Myrmica rubra and Myrmica ruginodis. We applied a venomics workflow based on proteotranscriptomics and found that the venoms of both species are composed of several protein classes, including venom serine proteases, cysteine-rich secretory protein, antigen 5 and pathogenesis-related 1 (CAP) superfamily proteins, Kunitz-type serine protease inhibitors and venom acid phosphatases. Several of these protein classes are known venom allergens, and for the first time we detected phospholipase A1 in the venom of M. ruginodis. We also identified two novel epidermal growth factor (EGF) family toxins in the M. ruginodis venom proteome and an array of additional EGF-like toxins in the venom gland transcriptomes of both species. These are similar to known toxins from the related myrmicine ant, Manica rubida, and the myrmecine (subfamily Myrmeciinae) Australian red bulldog ant Myrmecia gullosa, and are possibly deployed as weapons in defensive scenarios or to subdue prey. Our work suggests that M.rubra and M. ruginodis venoms contain many enzymes and other high-molecular-weight proteins that cause cell damage. Nevertheless, the presence of EGF-like toxins suggests that myrmicine ants have also recruited smaller peptide components into their venom arsenal. Although little is known about the bioactivity and function of EGF-like toxins, their presence in myrmicine and myrmecine ants suggests they play a key role in the venom systems of the superfamily Formicoidea. Our work adds to the emerging picture of ant venoms as a source of novel bioactive molecules and highlights the need to incorporate such taxa in future venom bioprospecting programs.
PXD031297	35623385	Fringe GlcNAc-transferases differentially extend O-fucose on endogenous NOTCH1 in mouse activated T cells. 	O-Fucose glycans on mouse NOTCH1 from activated T cells of Fringe mutant mice	Fringe, NOTCH1, O-fucose, POFUT1, T cell	NOTCH1 is a transmembrane receptor that initiates a cell-cell signaling pathway controlling various cell fate specifications in metazoans. The addition of O-fucose by protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (POFUT1) to epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) repeats in the NOTCH1 extracellular domain is essential for NOTCH1 function, and modification of O-fucose with GlcNAc by the Fringe family of glycosyltransferases modulates Notch activity. Prior cell-based studies showed that POFUT1 modifies EGF repeats containing the appropriate consensus sequence at high stoichiometry, while Fringe GlcNAc-transferases (LFNG, MFNG, and RFNG) modify O-fucose on only a subset of NOTCH1 EGF repeats. Previous in vivo studies showed that each FNG affects naive T cell development. To examine Fringe modifications of NOTCH1 at a physiological level, we used mass spectral glycoproteomic methods to analyze O-fucose glycans of endogenous NOTCH1 from activated T cells obtained from mice lacking all Fringe enzymes or expressing only a single FNG. While most O-fucose sites were modified at high stoichiometry, only EGF6, EGF16, EGF26, and EGF27 were extended in WT T cells. Additionally, cell-based assays of NOTCH1 lacking fucose at each of those O-fucose sites revealed small but significant effects of LFNG on Notch-Delta binding in the EGF16 and EGF27 mutants. Finally, in activated T cells expressing only LFNG, MFNG, or RFNG alone, the extension of O-fucose with GlcNAc in the same EGF repeats was diminished, consistent with cooperative interactions when all three Fringes were present. The combined data open the door for the analysis of O-glycans on endogenous NOTCH1 derived from different cell types.
PXD024248	35623660	Characterization of Proteasome-Generated Spliced Peptides Detected by Mass Spectrometry. 	HLA class I ligandome of HCT15/b2m	MHC ligandome	CD8(+) T cells recognize peptides displayed by HLA class I molecules and monitor intracellular peptide pools. It is known that the proteasome splices two short peptide fragments. Recent studies using mass spectrometry (MS) and bioinformatics analysis have suggested that proteasome-generated spliced peptides (PSPs) may account for a substantial proportion of HLA class I ligands. However, the authenticity of the PSPs identified using bioinformatics approaches remain ambiguous. In this study, we employed MS-based de novo sequencing to directly capture cryptic HLA ligands that were not templated in the genome. We identified two PSPs originating from the same protein in a human colorectal cancer line with microsatellite instability. Healthy donor-derived CD8(+) T cells readily responded to the two PSPs, showing their natural HLA presentation and antigenicity. Experiments using minigene constructs demonstrated proteasome-dependent processing of two PSPs generated by standard and reverse cis splicing, respectively. Our results suggest a broader diversity of HLA class I Ag repertoires generated by proteasomal splicing, supporting the advantage of MS-based approaches for the comprehensive identification of PSPs.
PXD031890	35624087	PI(18:1/18:1) is a SCD1-derived lipokine that limits stress signaling. 	Regulation of stress signaling by SCD1	LC-MSE, monounsaturated fatty acid, mouse fibroblasts, phospholipid, stress signaling	Cytotoxic stress activates stress-activated kinases, initiates adaptive mechanisms, including the unfolded protein response (UPR) and autophagy, and induces programmed cell death. Fatty acid unsaturation, controlled by stearoyl-CoA desaturase (SCD)1, prevents cytotoxic stress but the mechanisms are diffuse. Here, we show that 1,2-dioleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-myo-inositol) [PI(18:1/18:1)] is a SCD1-derived signaling lipid, which inhibits p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase activation, counteracts UPR, endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation, and apoptosis, regulates autophagy, and maintains cell morphology and proliferation. SCD1 expression and the cellular PI(18:1/18:1) proportion decrease during the onset of cell death, thereby repressing protein phosphatase 2 A and enhancing stress signaling. This counter-regulation applies to mechanistically diverse death-inducing conditions and is found in multiple human and mouse cell lines and tissues of Scd1-defective mice. PI(18:1/18:1) ratios reflect stress tolerance in tumorigenesis, chemoresistance, infection, high-fat diet, and immune aging. Together, PI(18:1/18:1) is a lipokine that links fatty acid unsaturation with stress responses, and its depletion evokes stress signaling.
PXD033151	35624205	Hypoxia shapes the immune landscape in lung injury and promotes the persistence of inflammation. 	Hypoxia shapes the immune landscape in lung injury and promotes the persistence of inflammation	ARDS, DIA, Hypoxia, classical monocytes	Hypoxemia is a defining feature of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), an often-fatal complication of pulmonary or systemic inflammation, yet the resulting tissue hypoxia, and its impact on immune responses, is often neglected. In the present study, we have shown that ARDS patients were hypoxemic and monocytopenic within the first 48 h of ventilation. Monocytopenia was also observed in mouse models of hypoxic acute lung injury, in which hypoxemia drove the suppression of type I interferon signaling in the bone marrow. This impaired monopoiesis resulted in reduced accumulation of monocyte-derived macrophages and enhanced neutrophil-mediated inflammation in the lung. Administration of colony-stimulating factor 1 in mice with hypoxic lung injury rescued the monocytopenia, altered the phenotype of circulating monocytes, increased monocyte-derived macrophages in the lung and limited injury. Thus, tissue hypoxia altered the dynamics of the immune response to the detriment of the host and interventions to address the aberrant response offer new therapeutic strategies for ARDS.
PXD033580	35625631	CAPTURE of the Human U2 snRNA Genes Expands the Repertoire of Associated Factors. 	CAPTURE of the human U2 snRNA genes	interactome, snRNA, transcription	In order to identify factors involved in transcription of human snRNA genes and 3' end processing of the transcripts, we have carried out CRISPR affinity purification in situ of regulatory elements (CAPTURE), which is deadCas9-mediated pull-down, of the tandemly repeated U2 snRNA genes in human cells. CAPTURE enriched many factors expected to be associated with these human snRNA genes including RNA polymerase II (pol II), Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 7 (CDK7), Negative Elongation Factor (NELF), Suppressor of Ty 5 (SPT5), Mediator 23 (MED23) and several subunits of the Integrator Complex. Suppressor of Ty 6 (SPT6); Cyclin K, the partner of Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 12 (CDK12) and Cyclin-Dependent Kinase 13 (CDK13); and SWI/SNF chromatin remodelling complex-associated SWI/SNF-related, Matrix-associated, Regulator of Chromatin (SMRC) factors were also enriched. Several polyadenylation factors, including Cleavage and Polyadenylation Specificity Factor 1 (CPSF1), Cleavage Stimulation Factors 1 and 2 (CSTF1,and CSTF2) were enriched by U2 gene CAPTURE. We have already shown by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) that CSTF2-and Pcf11 and Ssu72, which are also polyadenylation factors-are associated with the human U1 and U2 genes. ChIP-seq and ChIP-qPCR confirm the association of SPT6, Cyclin K, and CDK12 with the U2 genes. In addition, knockdown of SPT6 causes loss of subunit 3 of the Integrator Complex (INTS3) from the U2 genes, indicating a functional role in snRNA gene expression. CAPTURE has therefore expanded the repertoire of transcription and RNA processing factors associated with these genes and helped to identify a functional role for SPT6.
PXD026072	35625969	Multiphoton Microscopy Reveals DAPK1-Dependent Extracellular Matrix Remodeling in a Chorioallantoic Membrane (CAM) Model. 	Caught in the act: multiphoton microscopy reveals host extracellular matrix remodeling by a human cancer-avatar model	CAM, CRC, ECM remodeling, collagen, multiphoton microscopy	Cancer cells facilitate tumor growth by creating favorable tumor micro-environments (TME), altering homeostasis and immune response in the extracellular matrix (ECM) of surrounding tissue. A potential factor that contributes to TME generation and ECM remodeling is the cytoskeleton-associated human death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK1). Increased tumor cell motility and de-adhesion (thus, promoting metastasis), as well as upregulated plasminogen-signaling, are shown when functionally analyzing the DAPK1 ko-related proteome. However, the systematic investigation of how tumor cells actively modulate the ECM at the tissue level is experimentally challenging since animal models do not allow direct experimental access while artificial in vitro scaffolds cannot simulate the entire complexity of tissue systems. Here, we used the chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) assay as a natural, collagen-rich tissue model in combination with all-optical experimental access by multiphoton microscopy (MPM) to study the ECM remodeling potential of colorectal tumor cells with and without DAPK1 in situ and even in vivo. This approach demonstrates the suitability of the CAM assay in combination with multiphoton microscopy for studying collagen remodeling during tumor growth. Our results indicate the high ECM remodeling potential of DAPK1 ko tumor cells at the tissue level and support our findings from proteomics.
PXD032076	35626021	Identification of Carcinogenesis and Tumor Progression Processes in Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma Using High-Throughput Proteomics. 	Identification of carcinogenesis and tumor progression processes in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma using high-throughput proteomics	FFPE, Huamn, PDAC, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, linear mixed model, lymph node, metastasis, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is an aggressive disease with an overall 5-year survival rate of just 5%. A better understanding of the carcinogenesis processes and the mechanisms of the progression of PDAC is mandatory. Fifty-two PDAC patients treated with surgery and adjuvant therapy, with available primary tumors, normal tissue, preneoplastic lesions (PanIN), and/or lymph node metastases, were selected for the study. Proteins were extracted from small punches and analyzed by LC-MS/MS using data-independent acquisition. Proteomics data were analyzed using probabilistic graphical models, allowing functional characterization. Comparisons between groups were made using linear mixed models. Three proteomic tumor subtypes were defined. T1 (32% of patients) was related to adhesion, T2 (34%) had metabolic features, and T3 (34%) presented high splicing and nucleoplasm activity. These proteomics subtypes were validated in the PDAC TCGA cohort. Relevant biological processes related to carcinogenesis and tumor progression were studied in each subtype. Carcinogenesis in the T1 subtype seems to be related to an increase of adhesion and complement activation node activity, whereas tumor progression seems to be related to nucleoplasm and translation nodes. Regarding the T2 subtype, it seems that metabolism and, especially, mitochondria act as the motor of cancer development. T3 analyses point out that nucleoplasm, mitochondria and metabolism, and extracellular matrix nodes could be involved in T3 tumor carcinogenesis. The identified processes were different among proteomics subtypes, suggesting that the molecular motor of the disease is different in each subtype. These differences can have implications for the development of future tailored therapeutic approaches for each PDAC proteomics subtype.
PXD034037	35626166	GDF15 Is an Eribulin Response Biomarker also Required for Survival of DTP Breast Cancer Cells. 	The Yin and Yang of GDF15: a secreted biomarker of eribulin response in breast cancer cells, yet required for survival of drug tolerant persister (DTP) cells	Drug tolerance, Drug tolerant persister (DTP), breast cancer (BC), eribulin, growth differentiation factor (GDF15), secretome.	Drug tolerant persister (DTP) cells enter into a reversible slow-cycling state after drug treatment. We performed proteomic characterization of the breast cancer (BC) DTP cell secretome after eribulin treatment. We showed that the growth differentiation factor 15 (GDF15) is a protein significantly over-secreted upon eribulin treatment. The biomarker potential of GDF15 was confirmed in 3D-cell culture models using BC cells lines and PDXs, as well as in a TNBC in vivo model. We also found that GDF15 is required for survival of DTP cells. Direct participation of GDF15 and its receptor GFRAL in eribulin-induction of DTPs was established by the enhanced cell killing of DTPs by eribulin seen under GDF15 and GFRAL loss of function assays. Finally, we showed that combination therapy of eribulin plus an anti-GDF15 antibody kills BC-DTP cells. Our results suggest that targeting GDF15 may help eradicate DTP cells and block the onset of acquired resistance.
PXD030642	35627174	Explaining Unsaturated Fatty Acids (UFAs), Especially Polyunsaturated Fatty Acid (PUFA) Content in Subcutaneous Fat of Yaks of Different Sex by Differential Proteome Analysis. 	proteome  in subcutaneous fat of female and male yak	subcutaneous fat, yak	Residents on the Tibetan Plateau intake a lot of yak subcutaneous fat by diet. Modern healthy diet ideas demand higher unsaturated fatty acids (UFAs), especially polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) content in meat. Here, the gas chromatography (GC) and tandem mass tag (TMT) proteomic approaches were applied to explore the relationship between the proteomic differences and UFA and PUFA content in the subcutaneous fat of yaks with different sex. Compared with male yaks (MYs), the absolute contents of UFAs, monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) and PUFAs in the subcutaneous fat of female yaks (FYs) were all higher (p < 0.01); the relative content of MUFAs and PUFAs in MY subcutaneous fat was higher, and the value of PUFAs/SFAs was above 0.4, so the MY subcutaneous fat is more healthy for consumers. Further studies showed the transcriptional regulation by peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor delta (PPARD) played a key role in the regulation of UFAs, especially PUFA content in yaks of different sex. In FY subcutaneous fat, the higher abundance of the downstream effector proteins in PPAR signal, including acyl-CoA desaturase (SCD), elongation of very-long-chain fatty acids protein 6 (ELOVL6), lipoprotein lipase (LPL), fatty acid-binding protein (FABP1), very-long-chain (3R)-3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydratase 3 (HACD3), long-chain fatty acid CoA ligase 5 (ACSL5) and acyl-CoA-binding protein 2 (ACBP2), promoted the UFAs' transport and synthesis. The final result was the higher absolute content of c9-C14:1, c9-C18:1, c9,c12-C18:2n-6, c9, c12, c15-C18:3n-3, c5, c8, c11, c14, c17-C20:5n-3, c4, c7, c10, c13, -c16, c19-C22:6n-3, UFAs, MUFAs and PUFAs in FY subcutaneous fat. Further, LPL, FABP1, HACD3, ACSL1 and ACBP2 were the potential biomarkers for PUFA contents in yak subcutaneous fat. This study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms associated with UFA contents in yak subcutaneous fat.
PXD032784	35628173	Insights into the Mechanism of Human Deiodinase 1. 	Insights into the mechanism of human deiodinase 1	kinetic analysis, selenocysteine, selenoprotein, thyroid hormone	The three isoenzymes of iodothyronine deiodinases (DIO1-3) are membrane-anchored homo-dimeric selenoproteins which share the thioredoxin-fold structure. Several questions regarding their catalytic mechanisms still remain open. Here, we addressed the roles of several cysteines which are conserved among deiodinase isoenzymes and asked whether they may contribute to dimerization and reduction of the oxidized enzyme with physiological reductants. We also asked whether amino acids previously identified in DIO3 play the same role in DIO1. Human DIO1 and 2 were recombinantly expressed in insect cells with selenocysteine replaced with cysteine (DIO1(U126C)) or in COS7 cells as selenoprotein. Enzyme activities were studied by radioactive deiodination assays with physiological reducing agents and recombinant proteins were characterized by mass spectrometry. Mutation of Cys124 in DIO1 prevented reduction by glutathione, while 20 mM dithiothreitol still regenerated the enzyme. Protein thiol reductants, thioredoxin and glutaredoxin, did not reduce DIO1(U126C). Mass spectrometry demonstrated the formation of an intracellular disulfide between the side-chains of Cys124 and Cys(Sec)126. We conclude that the proximal Cys124 forms a selenenyl-sulfide with the catalytic Sec126 during catalysis, which is the substrate of the physiological reductant glutathione. Mutagenesis studies support the idea of a proton-relay pathway from solvent to substrate that is shared between DIO1 and DIO3.
PXD032942	35628420	Small Molecule Arranged Thermal Proximity Coaggregation (smarTPCA)-A Novel Approach to Characterize Protein-Protein Interactions in Living Cells by Similar Isothermal Dose-Responses. 	Thermal Proteome Profiling Datasets for smarTPCA	HL-60 cell line, TPP with temperature range (TPP-TR) or compound concentration range (TPP-CCR), kinase inhibitors, small molecule arranged thermal proximity coaggregation (smarTPCA), thermal proteome profiling (TPP)	Chemical biology and the application of small molecules has proven to be a potent perturbation strategy, especially for the functional elucidation of proteins, their networks, and regulators. In recent years, the cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA) and its proteome-wide extension, thermal proteome profiling (TPP), have proven to be effective tools for identifying interactions of small molecules with their target proteins, as well as off-targets in living cells. Here, we asked the question whether isothermal dose-response (ITDR) CETSA can be exploited to characterize secondary effects downstream of the primary binding event, such as changes in post-translational modifications or protein-protein interactions (PPI). By applying ITDR-CETSA to MAPK14 kinase inhibitor treatment of living HL-60 cells, we found similar dose-responses for the direct inhibitor target and its known interaction partners MAPKAPK2 and MAPKAPK3. Extension of the dose-response similarity comparison to the proteome wide level using TPP with compound concentration range (TPP-CCR) revealed not only the known MAPK14 interaction partners MAPKAPK2 and MAPKAPK3, but also the potentially new intracellular interaction partner MYLK. We are confident that dose-dependent small molecule treatment in combination with ITDR-CETSA or TPP-CCR similarity assessment will not only allow discrimination between primary and secondary effects, but will also provide a novel method to study PPI in living cells without perturbation by protein modification, which we named "small molecule arranged thermal proximity coaggregation" (smarTPCA).
PXD033933	35628631	The Rice Malectin Regulates Plant Cell Death and Disease Resistance by Participating in Glycoprotein Quality Control. 	Comparative  analysis of  N-glycoproteome differences between the mutant mld1 and wild-type Aichiasahi	N-glycosylation analysis, Oryza sativa	In animals, malectin is well known to play an essential role in endoplasmic reticulum quality control (ERQC) by interacting with ribophorin I, one unit of the oligosaccharyltransferase (OST) complex. However, the functions of malectin in plants remain largely unknown. Here, we demonstrate the rice OsMLD1 is an ER- and Golgi-associated malectin protein and physically interacts with rice homolog of ribophorin I (OsRpn1), and its disruption leads to spontaneous lesion mimic lesions, enhanced disease resistance, and prolonged ER stress. In addition, there are many more N-glycosites and N-glycoproteins identified from the mld1 mutant than wildtype. Furthermore, OsSERK1 and OsSERK2, which have more N-glycosites in mld1, were demonstrated to interact with OsMLD1. OsMLD1 can suppress OsSERK1- or OsSERK2-induced cell death. Thus, OsMLD1 may play a similar role to its mammalian homologs in glycoprotein quality control, thereby regulating cell death and immunity of rice, which uncovers the function of malectin in plants.
PXD033172	35629885	Segmental Bronchial Allergen Challenge Elicits Distinct Metabolic Phenotypes in Allergic Asthma. 	Segmental Bronchial Allergen Challenge Elicits Distinct Metabolic Phenotypes in Allergic Asthma	allergic asthma, metabolomics, phenotype, saturated fatty acid synthesis, segmental bronchial antigen provocation	Asthma is a complex syndrome associated with episodic decompensations provoked by aeroallergen exposures. The underlying pathophysiological states driving exacerbations are latent in the resting state and do not adequately inform biomarker-driven therapy. A better understanding of the pathophysiological pathways driving allergic exacerbations is needed. We hypothesized that disease-associated pathways could be identified in humans by unbiased metabolomics of bronchoalveolar fluid (BALF) during the peak inflammatory response provoked by a bronchial allergen challenge. We analyzed BALF metabolites in samples from 12 volunteers who underwent segmental bronchial antigen provocation (SBP-Ag). Metabolites were quantified using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) followed by pathway analysis and correlation with airway inflammation. SBP-Ag induced statistically significant changes in 549 features that mapped to 72 uniquely identified metabolites. From these features, two distinct inducible metabolic phenotypes were identified by the principal component analysis, partitioning around medoids (PAM) and k-means clustering. Ten index metabolites were identified that informed the presence of asthma-relevant pathways, including unsaturated fatty acid production/metabolism, mitochondrial beta oxidation of unsaturated fatty acid, and bile acid metabolism. Pathways were validated using proteomics in eosinophils. A segmental bronchial allergen challenge induces distinct metabolic responses in humans, providing insight into pathogenic and protective endotypes in allergic asthma.
PXD031626	35630335	Proteome and Physiological Characterization of Halotolerant Nodule Endophytes: The Case of Rahnella aquatilis and Serratia plymuthica. 	Proteome and physiological characterization of halotolerant nodule endophytes: the case of Rahnella aquatilis and Serratia plymuthica	Rahnella aquatilis, Serratia plymuthica, halotolerance, nodule endophytes	Bacterial endophytes were isolated from nodules of pea and fava bean. The strains were identified and characterized for plant beneficial activities (phosphate solubilization, synthesis of indole acetic acid and siderophores) and salt tolerance. Based on these data, four strains of Rahnella aquatilis and three strains of Serratia plymuthica were selected. To shed light on the mechanisms underlying salt tolerance, the proteome of the two most performant strains (Ra4 and Sp2) grown in the presence or not of salt was characterized. The number of proteins expressed by the endophytes was higher in the presence of salt. The modulated proteome consisted of 302 (100 up-regulated, 202 down-regulated) and 323 (206 up-regulated, 117 down-regulated) proteins in Ra4 and Sp2, respectively. Overall, proteins involved in abiotic stress responses were up-regulated, while those involved in metabolism and flagellum structure were down-regulated. The main up-regulated proteins in Sp2 were thiol: disulfide interchange protein DsbA, required for the sulfur binding formation in periplasmic proteins, while in Ra4 corresponded to the soluble fraction of ABC transporters, having a role in compatible solute uptake. Our results demonstrated a conserved response to salt stress in the two taxonomically related species.
PXD032314	35630784	Three Diverse Granule Preparation Methods for Proteomic Analysis of Mature Rice (Oryza sativa L.) Starch Grain. 	Three Diverse Granule Preparation Methods for Proteomic Analysis of Mature Rice (Oryza sativa L.) Starch Grain	amyloplast, plastoskeleton, rice, septum-like structure (SLS), starch grain (SG), starch granule, starch granule-associated protein (SGAP)	Starch is the primary form of reserve carbohydrate storage in plants. Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a monocot whose reserve starch is organized into compounded structures within the amyloplast, rather than a simple starch grain (SG). The mechanism governing the assembly of the compound SG from polyhedral granules in apposition, however, remains unknown. To further characterize the proteome associated with these compounded structures, three distinct methods of starch granule preparation (dispersion, microsieve, and flotation) were performed. Phase separation of peptides (aqueous trypsin-shaving and isopropanol solubilization of residual peptides) isolated starch granule-associated proteins (SGAPs) from the distal proteome of the amyloplast and the proximal 'amylome' (the amyloplastic proteome), respectively. The term 'distal proteome' refers to SGAPs loosely tethered to the amyloplast, ones that can be rapidly proteolyzed, while proximal SGAPs are those found closer to the remnant amyloplast membrane fragments, perhaps embedded therein-ones that need isopropanol solvent to be removed from the mature organelle surface. These two rice starch-associated peptide samples were analyzed using nano-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (Nano-HPLC-MS/MS). Known and novel proteins, as well as septum-like structure (SLS) proteins, in the mature rice SG were found. Data mining and gene ontology software were used to categorize these putative plastoskeletal components as a variety of structural elements, including actins, tubulins, tubulin-like proteins, and cementitious elements such as reticulata related-like (RER) proteins, tegument proteins, and lectins. Delineating the plastoskeletal proteome begins by understanding how each starch granule isolation procedure affects observed cytoplasmic and plastid proteins. The three methods described herein show how the technique used to isolate SGs differentially impacts the subsequent proteomic analysis and results obtained. It can thus be concluded that future investigations must make judicious decisions regarding the methodology used in extracting proteomic information from the compound starch granules being assessed, since different methods are shown to yield contrasting results herein. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD032314.
PXD026971	35631111	Proteomic Characterization of the Oral Pathogen Filifactor alocis Reveals Key Inter-Protein Interactions of Its RTX Toxin: FtxA. 	Proteomic analysis of Filifactor alocis type and clinically isolated strains	Filifactor alocis, clinically isolated strains	Filifactor alocis is a Gram-positive asaccharolytic, obligate anaerobic rod that has been isolated from a variety of oral infections including periodontitis, peri-implantitis, and odontogenic abscesses. As a newly emerging pathogen, its type strain has been investigated for pathogenic properties, yet little is known about its virulence variations among strains. We previously screened the whole genome of nine clinical oral isolates and a reference strain of F. alocis, and they expressed a novel RTX toxin, FtxA. In the present study, we aimed to use label-free quantification proteomics to characterize the full proteome of those ten F. alocis strains. A total of 872 proteins were quantified, and 97 among them were differentially expressed in FtxA-positive strains compared with the negative strains. In addition, 44 of these differentially expressed proteins formed 66 pairs of associations based on their predicted functions, which included clusters of proteins with DNA repair/mediated transformation and catalytic activity-related function, indicating different biosynthetic activities among strains. FtxA displayed specific interactions with another six intracellular proteins, forming a functional cluster that could discriminate between FtxA-producing and non-producing strains. Among them were FtxB and FtxD, predicted to be encoded by the same operon as FtxA. While revealing the broader qualitative and quantitative proteomic landscape of F. alocis, this study also sheds light on the deeper functional inter-relationships of FtxA, thus placing this RTX family member into context as a major virulence factor of this species.
PXD031839	35631218	Protective Effects of Polydatin from Grapes and Reynoutria japonica Houtt. on Damaged Macrophages Treated with Acetaminophen. 	Proteomics of Macrophagesï¼ševaluated whether polydatin, the active ingredient in grapes and wine, can repair damaged cells		The unregulated use of acetaminophen (APAP), an antipyretic and analgesic drug, harms hepatocytes and kidney cells, leading to liver failure and acute kidney injury. Herein, we investigate whether APAP damages macrophages in the immune system by observing its effects on macrophage proliferation and apoptosis. Using proteomics, we analyzed the effects of APAP on macrophage protein expression profiles and evaluated whether polydatin, the active ingredient in grapes and wine, can repair the damaged cells. The results showed that APAP alters the morphology and physiological processes of macrophages, inhibits macrophage proliferation, and promotes apoptosis. We observed 528 differentially expressed proteins when 500 microg/mL APAP was administered to the cells. These proteins are involved in biological processes including cell division, apoptosis, and acute phase response. Overall, our findings demonstrate that APAP harms the immune system by damaging macrophages and that polydatin can repair this damage.
PXD031260	35632606	Comparative Proteomic Analysis Reveals Mx1 Inhibits Senecavirus A Replication in PK-15 Cells by Interacting with the Capsid Proteins VP1, VP2 and VP3. 	Porcine Kidney-15 cells LC-MS/MS	Porcine Kidney-15 cells	As an emergent picornavirus pathogenic to pigs, Senecavirus A (SVA) can replicate in pig kidneys and proliferates well in porcine kidney epithelial PK-15 cells. Here, tandem mass tags (TMT) labeling coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to analyze the proteome dynamic changes in PK-15 cells during SVA infection. In total, 314, 697 and 426 upregulated differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and 131, 263 and 342 downregulated DEPs were identified at 12, 24 and 36 hpi, respectively. After ensuring reliability of the proteomic data by quantitative PCR and Western blot testing of five randomly selected DEPs, Mx1, eIF4E, G6PD, TOP1 and PGAM1, all the DEPs were subjected to multiple bioinformatics analyses, including GO, COG, KEGG and STRING. The results reveal that the DEPs were mainly involved in host innate and adaptive immune responses in the early and middle stages of SVA infection, while the DEPs mainly participated in various metabolic processes in the late stage of infection. Finally, we demonstrated that Mx1 protein exerts antiviral activity against SVA by interacting with VP1 and VP2 proteins dependent on its GTPase, oligomerization and interaction activities, while Mx1 interacts with VP3 only depending on its oligomerization activity. Collectively, our study provides valuable clues for further investigation of SVA pathogenesis.
PXD032289	35634334	Comprehensive Analysis of the Relationships Between the Gut Microbiota and Fecal Metabolome in Individuals With Primary Sjogren's Syndrome by 16S rRNA Sequencing and LC-MS-Based Metabolomics. 	Comprehensive Analysis of the Relationships between the Gut Microbiota and Fecal Metabolome in Individuals with Primary Sjogren's Syndrome by 16S rRNA Sequencing and LC-MS-Based Metabolomics	16S rRNA sequencing, Escherichia-Shigella, LC-MS, gut microbiota, metabolome, primary Sjogren's Syndrome	The gut microbiota has been associated with primary Sjogren's syndrome (pSS), yet the biological implications of these associations are often elusive. We analyzed the fecal microbiota through 16S rRNA gene amplification and sequencing in 30 patients with pSS and 20 healthy controls (HCs); At the same time, the fecal metabolome was characterized by ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. In addition, correlation analyses of microbiota and metabolome data were performed to identify meaningful associations. We found that the microbiota composition of pSS patients was significantly different from that of HCs. The pSS gut microbiota is characterized by increased abundances of proinflammatory microbes, especially Escherichia-Shigella, and decreased abundances of anti-inflammatory microbes. Concerning the metabolome, a multivariate model with 33 metabolites efficiently distinguished cases from controls. Through KEGG enrichment analysis, we found that these metabolites were mainly involved in amino acid metabolism and lipid metabolism. The correlation analysis indicated that there were certain correlations between the microbiota and metabolism in pSS patients. In addition, an abundance of Escherichia-Shigella was found to be correlated with high levels of four metabolites (aflatoxin M1, glycocholic acid, L-histidine and phenylglyoxylic acid). Our research suggests that in pSS patients, the gut microbiota is characterized by a specific combination of proinflammatory changes and metabolic states. Escherichia-Shigella is a factor related to gut dysbiosis, which may promote intestinal damage and affect amino acid metabolism.
PXD028442	35634471	Proteins Involved in Synaptic Plasticity Are Downregulated in the Cerebrospinal Fluid of Infants With Clinical Sepsis Complicated by Neuroinflammation. 	Proteomic change in cerebrospinal fluid of neonatal sepsis	cerebrospinal fluid, meningitis, neonatal sepsis	Newborn infants are prone to sepsis and related inflammation of different organs. Neuroinflammation has been associated with long-term adverse neuronal (neuropsychiatric/neurodegenerative) outcomes, including attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) or even Alzheimer's disease. Despite a vast number of findings on sepsis-induced inflammatory responses in the central nervous system (CNS), how neuroinflammation affects brain development remains largely elusive. In this study, neonates with clinical sepsis and screened for meningitis were included and classified by the neuroinflammation status based on cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) parameters (INF vs. NOINF). CSF samples collected from clinical screening were subjected to proteomics analysis. Proteins with differential abundance were subjected to enrichment analysis to reveal affected biological pathways. INF and NOINF infants had similar demographic data and hematological and biochemical parameters in blood and CSF. The CSF proteomes were essentially different between the two groups. All 65 proteins with differential abundance showed lower abundance in the INF group and functionally covered pivotal developmental processes, including axonal and synaptic function and extracellular homeostasis. CSF proteins, PTPRZ1 and IGFBP4, were correlated with C-reactive protein (CRP) and ratios of immature/total neutrophils in blood. In general, a substantial change in the CSF protein profile was found under neuroinflammation, and these changes are related to systemic conditions. The results suggest that changes in CSF proteins may be involved in sepsis-affected neurodevelopment, such as disturbances in circuit formation, which has the potential to predispose neonates to long-term adverse outcomes.
PXD032916	35635043	In vitro study of polydopamine nanoparticles as protective antioxidant agents in fibroblasts derived from ARSACS patients. 	In vitro pilot study of polydopamine nanoparticles as protective antioxidant agents on fibroblasts cells derived from ARSACS patients	ARSACS, Polydopamine nanoparticles, Reactive oxygen species, fibroblasts	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are active molecules involved in several biological functions. When the production of ROS is not counterbalanced by the action of protective antioxidant mechanisms present in living organisms, a condition of oxidative stress can arise with consequent damage to biological structures. The brain is one of the main ROS-generating organs in the human body, with the consequence that most of the neurological disorders are associated with an overproduction of ROS. Autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS) is a neurodegenerative disease associated with mutations in the sacsin gene (SACS). At cellular level, ARSACS is characterized by mitochondrial impairments, a reduction in bioenergetic processes, and by both an over-production of and an over-sensitivity to ROS. Several antioxidant molecules have been proposed as a potential treatment for ARSACS, such as idebenone and resveratrol. Polydopamine nanoparticles (PDNPs) gained significant attention in recent years owing to their peculiar physical/chemical properties, and especially because of their antioxidant activity. PDNPs have shown a great ROS scavenging capacity that, combined with their completely organic nature that grants them the ability to be degraded and excreted by living organisms, make them a promising candidate in the treatment of oxidative stress-related disorders. In this work, we assessed the effect of PDNPs on human fibroblasts derived from ARSACS patients in terms of antioxidant properties and protein expression. PDNP interaction with fibroblasts was analyzed in terms of biocompatibility, internalization and uptake pathway, reduction of ROS levels, prevention of ROS-induced apoptosis/necrosis, and protective action upon ROS-induced mitochondrial dysfunctions. Moreover, a complete proteomic analysis was performed. Altogether, our data showed that PDNPs can partially counteract ROS-induced damages in ARSACS patient-derived fibroblasts, making them a potential therapeutic candidate to treat - or at least to ameliorate - the condition of oxidative stress associated with ARSACS.
PXD028341	35635656	Complementary omics strategies to dissect p53 signaling networks under nutrient stress. 	Complementary omics strategies to dissect p53 signaling networks under nutrient stress	human hepatoma cell line, p53, rapid immunoprecipitation MS, response to starvation	Signaling trough p53is a major cellular stress response mechanism and increases upon nutrient stresses such as starvation. Here, we show in a human hepatoma cell line that starvation leads to robust nuclear p53 stabilization. Using BioID, we determine the cytoplasmic p53 interaction network within the immediate-early starvation response and show that p53 is dissociated from several metabolic enzymes and the kinase PAK2 for which direct binding with the p53 DNA-binding domain was confirmed with NMR studies. Furthermore, proteomics after p53 immunoprecipitation (RIME) uncovered the nuclear interactome under prolonged starvation, where we confirmed the novel p53 interactors SORBS1 (insulin receptor signaling) and UGP2 (glycogen synthesis). Finally, transcriptomics after p53 re-expression revealed a distinct starvation-specific transcriptome response and suggested previously unknown nutrient-dependent p53 target genes. Together, our complementary approaches delineate several nodes of the p53 signaling cascade upon starvation, shedding new light on the mechanisms of p53 as nutrient stress sensor. Given the central role of p53 in cancer biology and the beneficial effects of fasting in cancer treatment, the identified interaction partners and networks could pinpoint novel pharmacologic targets to fine-tune p53 activity.
PXD029639	35636728	Harmonizing Labeling and Analytical Strategies to Obtain Protein Turnover Rates in Intact Adult Animals. 	Amino acid and heavy water labelling to obtain protein turnover rates in intact adult animals	heavy water, silac, turnover	Changes in the abundance of individual proteins in the proteome can be elicited by modulation of protein synthesis (the rate of input of newly synthesized proteins into the protein pool) or degradation (the rate of removal of protein molecules from the pool). A full understanding of proteome changes therefore requires a definition of the roles of these two processes in proteostasis, collectively known as protein turnover. Because protein turnover occurs even in the absence of overt changes in pool abundance, turnover measurements necessitate monitoring the flux of stable isotope-labeled precursors through the protein pool such as labeled amino acids or metabolic precursors such as ammonium chloride or heavy water. In cells in culture, the ability to manipulate precursor pools by rapid medium changes is simple, but for more complex systems such as intact animals, the approach becomes more convoluted. Individual methods bring specific complications, and the suitability of different methods has not been comprehensively explored. In this study, we compare the turnover rates of proteins across four mouse tissues, obtained from the same inbred mouse strain maintained under identical husbandry conditions, measured using either [(13)C6]lysine or [(2)H2]O as the labeling precursor. We show that for long-lived proteins, the two approaches yield essentially identical measures of the first-order rate constant for degradation. For short-lived proteins, there is a need to compensate for the slower equilibration of lysine through the precursor pools. We evaluate different approaches to provide that compensation. We conclude that both labels are suitable, but careful determination of precursor enrichment kinetics in amino acid labeling is critical and has a considerable influence on the numerical values of the derived protein turnover rates.
PXD033725	35637715	Ageing- and AAA-associated differentially expressed proteins identified by proteomic analysis in mice. 	Ageing- and AAA-associated Differentially Expressed Proteins Identified by Proteomic Analysis	Abdominal aortic aneurysm, LC-MS/MS, age-associated circulation changes, proteomic analysis	Background: Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a disease of high prevalence in old age, and its incidence gradually increases with increasing age. There were few studies about differences in the circulatory system in the incidence of AAA, mainly because younger patients with AAA are fewer and more comorbid nonatherosclerotic factors. Method: We induced AAA in ApoE(-/-) male mice of different ages (10 or 24 weeks) and obtained plasma samples. After the top 14 most abundant proteins were detected, the plasma was analyzed by a proteomic study using the data-dependent acquisition (DDA) technique. The proteomic results were compared between different groups to identify age-related differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the circulation that contribute to AAA formation. Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analyses were performed by R software. The top 10 proteins were determined with the MCC method of Cytoscape, and transcription factor (TF) prediction of the DEPs was performed with iRegulon (Cytoscape). Results: The aortic diameter fold increase was higher in the aged group than in the youth group (p < 0.01). Overall, 92 DEPs related to age and involved in AAA formation were identified. GO analysis of the DEPs showed enrichment of the terms wounding healing, response to oxidative stress, regulation of body fluid levels, ribose phosphate metabolic process, and blood coagulation. The KEGG pathway analysis showed enrichment of the terms platelet activation, complement and coagulation cascades, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, carbon metabolism, biosynthesis of amino acids, and ECM-receptor interaction. The top 10 proteins were Tpi1, Eno1, Prdx1, Ppia, Prdx6, Vwf, Prdx2, Fga, Fgg, and Fgb, and the predicted TFs of these proteins were Nfe2, Srf, Epas1, Tbp, and Hoxc8. Conclusion: The identified proteins related to age and involved in AAA formation were associated with the response to oxidative stress, coagulation and platelet activation, and complement and inflammation pathways, and the TFs of these proteins might be potential targets for AAA treatments. Further experimental and biological studies are needed to elucidate the role of these age-associated and AAA-related proteins in the progression of AAA.
PXD030727	35637971	Quantitative proteomics of HFD-induced fatty liver uncovers novel transcription factors of lipid metabolism. 	high fat diet feed mice liver sample proteomics	mouse HFD liver proteomics	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) has become the most common chronic liver disease, which progression is tightly regulated by transcription factors (TFs), nuclear receptors, and cellular enzymes. In this study, a label-free quantitative proteomic approach was used to determine the effect of the high-fat diet on the proteomics profile of liver tissue and to identify novel NAFLD related TFs. Mice were fed with HFD for 16 weeks to establish a NAFLD mouse model. Mice fed with normal chow diet were taken as controls. Liver samples were collected from each group for proteomics analysis. A total of 2298 proteins were quantified, among which 106 proteins were downregulated, while 256 proteins were upregulated in HFD-fed mice compared with the controls with fold change more than 1.5 and p value less than 0.05. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that metabolic-related functions and pathways were most significantly enriched. A subgroup of 11 TFs were observed to share interactions with metabolic-related enzymes and kinases by protein-protein interaction analysis. Among them, 7 TFs were selected for verification, and 3 TFs were finally validated, including Rbbp4, Tcea1, and ILF2. Downregulating each of the 3 TFs could significantly promote lipid accumulation in AML12 hepatocytes, by regulating the expression of fatty acid synthesis- or beta-oxidation-related genes. In contrast, overexpression of Tcea1, Rbbp4, and ILF2, respectively, could ameliorate hepatocyte steatosis. These findings propose novel lipid metabolism related TFs, which might have potential roles in preventing NAFLD.
PXD023084	35638262	High-intensity interval training remodels the proteome and acetylome of human skeletal muscle. 	High intensity interval training remodels the proteome and acetylome in human skeletal muscle	Exercise, LCMS, lysine acetylation, skeletal muscle	Exercise is an effective strategy in the prevention and treatment of metabolic diseases. Alterations in the skeletal muscle proteome, including post-translational modifications, regulate its metabolic adaptations to exercise. Here, we examined the effect of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) on the proteome and acetylome of human skeletal muscle, revealing the response of 3168 proteins and 1263 lysine acetyl-sites on 464 acetylated proteins. We identified global protein adaptations to exercise training involved in metabolism, excitation-contraction coupling, and myofibrillar calcium sensitivity. Furthermore, HIIT increased the acetylation of mitochondrial proteins, particularly those of complex V. We also highlight the regulation of exercise-responsive histone acetyl-sites. These data demonstrate the plasticity of the skeletal muscle proteome and acetylome, providing insight into the regulation of contractile, metabolic and transcriptional processes within skeletal muscle. Herein, we provide a substantial hypothesis-generating resource to stimulate further mechanistic research investigating how exercise improves metabolic health.
PXD030123	35638825	Manganese Modulates Metabolic Activity and Redox Homeostasis in Translationally Blocked Lactococcus cremoris, Impacting Metabolic Persistence, Cell Culturability, and Flavor Formation. 	Manganese availability alters the expression of its corresponding transporters and redox-dependent proteins but not superoxide dismutase in Lactococcus cremoris.	Lactococcus cremoris, cofactor, dairy fermentation, manganese, redox homeostasis, starter culture	Manganese (Mn) is an essential trace element that is supplemented in microbial media with varying benefits across species and growth conditions. We found that growth of Lactococcus cremoris was unaffected by manganese omission from the growth medium. The main proteome adaptation to manganese omission involved increased manganese transporter production (up to 2,000-fold), while the remaining 10 significant proteome changes were between 1.4- and 4-fold. Further investigation in translationally blocked (TB), nongrowing cells showed that Mn supplementation (20 muM) led to approximately 1.5 X faster acidification compared with Mn-free conditions. However, this faster acidification stagnated within 24 h, likely due to draining of intracellular NADH that coincides with substantial loss of culturability. Conversely, without manganese, nongrowing cells persisted to acidify for weeks, albeit at a reduced rate, but maintaining redox balance and culturability. Strikingly, despite being unculturable, alpha-keto acid-derived aldehydes continued to accumulate in cells incubated in the presence of manganese, whereas without manganese cells predominantly formed the corresponding alcohols. This is most likely reflecting NADH availability for the alcohol dehydrogenase-catalyzed conversion. Overall, manganese influences the lactococcal acidification rate, and flavor formation capacity in a redox dependent manner. These are important industrial traits especially during cheese ripening, where cells are in a non-growing, often unculturable state. IMPORTANCE In nature as well as in various biotechnology applications, microorganisms are often in a nongrowing state and their metabolic persistence determines cell survival and functionality. Industrial examples are dairy fermentations where bacteria remain active during the ripening phases that can take up to months and even years. Here we investigated environmental factors that can influence lactococcal metabolic persistence throughout such prolonged periods. We found that in the absence of manganese, acidification of nongrowing cells remained active for weeks while in the presence of manganese it stopped within 1 day. The latter coincided with the accumulation of amino acid derived volatile metabolites. Based on metabolic conversions, proteome analysis, and a reporter assay, we demonstrated that the manganese elicited effects were NADH dependent. Overall the results show the effect of environmental modulation on prolonged cell-based catalysis, which is highly relevant to non-growing cells in nature and biotechnological applications.
PXD030043	35640380	Quantitative analysis of redox proteome reveals oxidation-sensitive protein thiols acting in fundamental processes of developmental hematopoiesis. 	Quantitative analysis of redox proteome reveals protein thiol switches regulating fundamental processes in developmental haematopoiesis	hematopoiesis, leukemia, oxidative modifications, redox proteomics	Fetal and adult hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs) are characterized by distinct redox homeostasis that may influence their differential cellular behavior in normal and malignant hematopoiesis. In this work, we have applied a quantitative mass spectrometry-based redox proteomic approach to comprehensively describe reversible cysteine modifications in primary mouse fetal and adult HSPCs. We defined the redox state of 4,438 cysteines in fetal and adult HSPCs and demonstrated a higher susceptibility to oxidation of protein thiols in fetal HSPCs. Our data identified ontogenic changes to oxidation state of thiols in proteins with a pronounced role in metabolism and protein homeostasis. Additional redox proteomic analysis identified oxidation changes to thiols acting in mitochondrial respiration as well as protein homeostasis to be triggered during onset of MLL-ENL leukemogenesis in fetal HSPCs. Our data has demonstrated that redox signaling contributes to the regulation of fundamental processes of developmental hematopoiesis and has pinpointed potential targetable redox-sensitive proteins in in utero-initiated MLL-rearranged leukemia.
PXD028397	35640614	RNF4 controls the extent of replication fork reversal to preserve genome stability. 	SFB-tagged(S-protein tag, Flag epitope tag, and streptavidin-binding peptide tag) RNF4 wild-type and CS mutant LC-MSMS	Human RNF4 WT and CS LC-MSMS	Replication fork reversal occurs via a two-step process that entails reversal initiation and reversal extension. DNA topoisomerase IIalpha (TOP2A) facilitates extensive fork reversal, on one hand through resolving the topological stress generated by the initial reversal, on the other hand via its role in recruiting the SUMO-targeted DNA translocase PICH to stalled forks in a manner that is dependent on its SUMOylation by the SUMO E3 ligase ZATT. However, how TOP2A activities at stalled forks are precisely regulated remains poorly understood. Here we show that, upon replication stress, the SUMO-targeted ubiquitin E3 ligase RNF4 accumulates at stalled forks and targets SUMOylated TOP2A for ubiquitination and degradation. Downregulation of RNF4 resulted in aberrant activation of the ZATT-TOP2A-PICH complex at stalled forks, which in turn led to excessive reversal and elevated frequencies of fork collapse. These results uncover a previously unidentified regulatory mechanism that regulates TOP2A activities at stalled forks and thus the extent of fork reversal.
PXD028840	35640880	Method for Independent Estimation of the False Localization Rate for Phosphoproteomics. 	A method for independent estimation of false localisation rate for phosphoproteomics	Phosphorylation, false localisation	Phosphoproteomic methods are commonly employed to identify and quantify phosphorylation sites on proteins. In recent years, various tools have been developed, incorporating scores or statistics related to whether a given phosphosite has been correctly identified or to estimate the global false localization rate (FLR) within a given data set for all sites reported. These scores have generally been calibrated using synthetic datasets, and their statistical reliability on real datasets is largely unknown, potentially leading to studies reporting incorrectly localized phosphosites, due to inadequate statistical control. In this work, we develop the concept of scoring modifications on a decoy amino acid, that is, one that cannot be modified, to allow for independent estimation of global FLR. We test a variety of amino acids, on both synthetic and real data sets, demonstrating that the selection can make a substantial difference to the estimated global FLR. We conclude that while several different amino acids might be appropriate, the most reliable FLR results were achieved using alanine and leucine as decoys. We propose the use of a decoy amino acid to control false reporting in the literature and in public databases that re-distribute the data. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD028840.
PXD033655	35641481	Multicenter phase II trial of Camrelizumab combined with Apatinib and Eribulin in heavily pretreated patients with advanced triple-negative breast cancer. 	Proteomic analysis of patients with advanced triple-negative breast cancer	Breast cancer	In the later-line setting or for patients with PD-L1-negative tumors, immunotherapy-based regimens remain ineffective against advanced triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). In this multicentered phase II trial (NCT04303741), 46 patients with pretreated advanced TNBC were enrolled to receive camrelizumab 200 mg (day 1), and apatinib 250 mg daily, plus eribulin 1.4 mg/m(2) (day 1 and 8) on a 21-day cycle until progression, or unacceptable toxicity. Primary endpoint was objective response rate (ORR) according to RECIST 1.1. Secondary endpoints included toxicities, disease control rate (DCR), clinical benefit rate, progression-free survival (PFS), and 1-year overall survival. With a median of 3 lines of prior chemotherapy in the advanced setting, 17.4% had received PD-1/PD-L1 blockade plus chemotherapy for advanced disease. The ORR was 37.0% (17/46, 95% CI 23.2-52.5). The DCR was 87.0% (40/46, 95% CI 73.7-95.1). Median PFS was 8.1 (95% CI 4.6-10.3) months. Tertiary lymphoid structure was associated with higher ORR. Patients with lower tumor PML or PLOD3 expression had favorable ORR and PFS. PD-L1 status was not associated with ORR/PFS. Grade 3/4 treatment-related adverse events occurred in 19 (41.3%) of 46 patients. Camrelizumab plus apatinib and eribulin shows promising efficacy with a measurable safety profile in patients with heavily pretreated advanced TNBC.
PXD030144	35641500	The Ube2m-Rbx1 neddylation-Cullin-RING-Ligase proteins are essential for the maintenance of Regulatory T cell fitness. 	Requirement of Rbx1 Cullin-RING ligase E3 and Ube2m neddylation E2 in the maintenance of the fitness of Treg cells	Rbx1, Treg cells, mice	Neddylation-mediated activation of Cullin-RING E3 Ligases (CRLs) are necessary for the degradation of specific immune regulatory proteins. However, little is known about how these processes govern the function of regulatory T (Treg) cells. Here we show that mice with Treg cell-specific deletion of Rbx1, a dual E3 for both neddylation and ubiquitylation by CRLs, develop an early-onset fatal inflammatory disorder, characterized by disrupted Treg cell homeostasis and suppressive functions. Specifically, Rbx1 is essential for the maintenance of an effector Treg cell subpopulation, and regulates several inflammatory pathways. Similar but less severe phenotypes are observed in mice having Ube2m, a neddylation E2 conjugation enzyme, deleted in their Treg cells. Interestingly, Treg-specific deletion of Rbx2/Sag or Ube2f, components of a similar but distinct neddylation-CRL complex, yields no obvious phenotype. Thus, our work demonstrates that the Ube2m-Rbx1 axis is specifically required for intrinsic regulatory processes in Treg cells; and that Rbx1 might also play Ube2m-independent roles in maintaining the fitness of Treg cells, suggesting a layer of complexity in neddylation-dependent activation of CRLs.
PXD032010	35641520	Cryo-EM structures of human A2ML1 elucidate the protease-inhibitory mechanism of the A2M family. 	A2ML1 bait region mapping and glycan determination	A2ML1, protease inhibitor	A2ML1 is a monomeric protease inhibitor belonging to the A2M superfamily of protease inhibitors and complement factors. Here, we investigate the protease-inhibitory mechanism of human A2ML1 and determine the structures of its native and protease-cleaved conformations. The functional inhibitory unit of A2ML1 is a monomer that depends on covalent binding of the protease (mediated by A2ML1's thioester) to achieve inhibition. In contrast to the A2M tetramer which traps proteases in two internal chambers formed by four subunits, in protease-cleaved monomeric A2ML1 disordered regions surround the trapped protease and may prevent substrate access. In native A2ML1, the bait region is threaded through a hydrophobic channel, suggesting that disruption of this arrangement by bait region cleavage triggers the extensive conformational changes that result in protease inhibition. Structural comparisons with complement C3/C4 suggest that the A2M superfamily of proteins share this mechanism for the triggering of conformational change occurring upon proteolytic activation.
PXD031011	35642598	CBX4 contributes to HIV-1 latency by forming phase-separated nuclear bodies and SUMOylating EZH2. 	CBX4 contributes to HIV-1 latency by forming phase-separated nuclear bodies and SUMOylating EZH2	CBX4, HIV-1 latency, SUMOylation, nuclear body, phase separation	The retrovirus HIV-1 integrates into the host genome and establishes a latent viral reservoir that escapes immune surveillance. Molecular mechanisms of HIV-1 latency have been studied extensively to achieve a cure for the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Latency-reversing agents (LRAs) have been developed to reactivate and eliminate the latent reservoir by the immune system. To develop more promising LRAs, it is essential to evaluate new therapeutic targets. Here, we find that CBX4, a component of the Polycomb Repressive Complex 1 (PRC1), contributes to HIV-1 latency in seven latency models and primary CD4(+) T cells. CBX4 forms nuclear bodies with liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) properties on the HIV-1 long terminal repeat (LTR) and recruits EZH2, the catalytic subunit of PRC2. CBX4 SUMOylates EZH2 utilizing its SUMO E3 ligase activity, thereby enhancing the H3K27 methyltransferase activity of EZH2. Our results indicate that CBX4 acts as a bridge between the repressor complexes PRC1 and PRC2 that act synergistically to maintain HIV-1 latency. Dissolution of phase-separated CBX4 bodies could be a potential intervention to reactivate latent HIV-1.
PXD032958	35642785	Differentiated glioma cell-derived fibromodulin activates integrin-dependent Notch signaling in endothelial cells to promote tumor angiogenesis and growth. 	Functional genomics of glioblastoma: from epigenetics to proteomic investigation of tumor-initiating cell secretome	cancer stem cells, secretome, tumor-initiating cells	Cancer stem cells (CSCs) alone can initiate and maintain tumors, but the function of non-cancer stem cells (non-CSCs) that form the tumor bulk remains poorly understood. Proteomic analysis showed a higher abundance of the extracellular matrix small leucine-rich proteoglycan fibromodulin (FMOD) in the conditioned medium of differentiated glioma cells (DGCs), the equivalent of glioma non-CSCs, compared to that of glioma stem-like cells (GSCs). DGCs silenced for FMOD fail to cooperate with co-implanted GSCs to promote tumor growth. FMOD downregulation neither affects GSC growth and differentiation nor DGC growth and reprogramming in vitro. DGC-secreted FMOD promotes angiogenesis by activating integrin-dependent Notch signaling in endothelial cells. Furthermore, conditional silencing of FMOD in newly generated DGCs in vivo inhibits the growth of GSC-initiated tumors due to poorly developed vasculature and increases mouse survival. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that DGC-secreted FMOD promotes glioma tumor angiogenesis and growth through paracrine signaling in endothelial cells and identifies a DGC-produced protein as a potential therapeutic target in glioma.
PXD031179	35643318	Diverse reaction behaviors of artificial ubiquinones in mitochondrial respiratory complex I. 	Characterization of ND5 subunit of bovine mitochondrial NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I)	ND5 subunit, complex I, mitochondria	The ubiquinone (UQ) reduction step catalyzed by NADH-UQ oxidoreductase (mitochondrial respiratory complex I) is key to triggering proton translocation across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Structural studies have identified a long, narrow, UQ-accessing tunnel within the enzyme. We previously demonstrated that synthetic oversized UQs, which are unlikely to transit this narrow tunnel, are catalytically reduced by native complex I embedded in submitochondrial particles but not by the isolated enzyme. To explain this contradiction, we hypothesized that access of oversized UQs to the reaction site is obstructed in the isolated enzyme because their access route is altered following detergent solubilization from the inner mitochondrial membrane. In the present study, we investigated this using two pairs of photoreactive UQs (pUQm-1/pUQp-1 and pUQm-2/pUQp-2), with each pair having the same chemical properties except for a ~1.0 Aa difference in side-chain widths. Despite this subtle difference, reduction of the wider pUQs by the isolated complex was significantly slower than of the narrower pUQs, but both were similarly reduced by the native enzyme. In addition, photoaffinity-labeling experiments using the four [(125)I]pUQs demonstrated that their side chains predominantly label the ND1 subunit with both enzymes but at different regions around the tunnel. Finally, we show that the suppressive effects of different types of inhibitors on the labeling significantly changed depending on [(125)I]pUQs used, indicating that [(125)I]pUQs and these inhibitors do not necessarily share a common binding cavity. Altogether, we conclude that the reaction behaviors of pUQs cannot be simply explained by the canonical UQ tunnel model.
PXD029533	35644922	Global profiling of lysine succinylation in human lungs. 	Lysine Succinylation in Human Lungs	Succinylation	The lysine succinylation (Ksucc) is involved in many core energy metabolism pathways and affects the metabolic process in mitochondria, making this modification highly valuable for studying diseases related to mitochondrial disorders. In this paper, we used liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to perform the first global profiling of succinylation in human lungs under normal physiological conditions. Using an MS-based platform, we identified 1485 Ksucc sites in 568 proteins. We then compared these sites with those previously identified in human succinylome studies to investigate specific succinylated proteins and identify their possible functions in the lung and to explore the substrate preferences of succinylation modifiers in different cell lines and at different subcellular localizations. Our work expands the succinylation database and supplementary materials on the human succinylome and will thus help in further study of the function of Ksucc and regulation under related physiological and pathological conditions.
PXD032049	35645373	Proteomes of Uropathogenic Escherichia coli Growing in Human Urine and in J82 Urinary Bladder Cells. 	Proteomes of uropathogenic Escherichia coli growing in human urine and in J82 urinary bladder cell.	Metabolism, UPEC, Urinary tract infections	Uropathogenic Escherichia coli (UPEC) are the most common cause of urinary tract infection (UTI). UPEC normally reside in the intestine, and during establishment of UTI, they undergo metabolic adaptations, first to urine and then upon tissue invasion to the bladder cell interior. To understand these adaptations, we used quantitative proteomic profiling to characterize protein expression of the UPEC strain UTI89 growing in human urine and when inside J82 bladder cells. In order to facilitate detection of UPEC proteins over the excess amount of eukaryotic proteins in bladder cells, we developed a method where proteins from UTI89 grown in MOPS and urine was spiked-in to enhance detection of bacterial proteins. More than 2000 E. coli proteins were detected. During growth in urine, proteins associated with iron acquisition and several amino acid uptake and biosynthesis systems, most prominently arginine metabolism, were significantly upregulated. During growth in J82 cells, proteins related to iron uptake and arginine metabolisms were likewise upregulated together with proteins involved in sulfur compound turnover. Ribosomal proteins were downregulated relative to growth in MOPS in this environment. There was no direct correlation between upregulated proteins and proteins reported to be essential for infections, showing that upregulation during growth does not signify that the proteins are essential for growth under a condition.
PXD032297	35645376	Pattern Analysis of Organellar Maps for Interpretation of Proteomic Data. 	Pattern Analysis of Organellar Maps for Interpretation of Pro-teomic Data	Bioinformatics, Pattern Analysis, Proximity Labeling	Localization of organelle proteins by isotope tagging (LOPIT) maps are a coordinate-directed representation of proteome data that can aid in biological interpretation. Analysis of organellar association for proteins as displayed using LOPIT is evaluated and interpreted for two types of proteomic data sets. First, test and control group protein abundances and fold change data obtained in a proximity labeling experiment are plotted on a LOPIT map to evaluate the likelihood of true protein interactions. Selection of true positives based on co-localization of proteins in the organellar space is shown to be consistent with carboxylase enrichment which serves as a positive control for biotinylation in streptavidin affinity selected proteome data sets. The mapping in organellar space facilitates discrimination between the test and control groups and aids in identification of proteins of interest. The same representation of proteins in organellar space is used in the analysis of extracellular vesicle proteomes for which protein abundance and fold change data are evaluated. Vesicular protein organellar localization patterns provide information about the subcellular origin of the proteins in the samples which are isolates from the extracellular milieu. The organellar localization patterns are indicative of the provenance of the vesicular proteome origin and allow discrimination between proteomes prepared using different enrichment methods. The patterns in LOPIT displays are easy to understand and compare which aids in the biological interpretation of proteome data.
PXD047050	35646023	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomics Unravel the Impacts of Salt Stress on Dendrobium huoshanense. 	Effects of heavy metal lead stress on Dendrobium huoshanense	Dendrobium, Pb stress, lable-free proteomics	Salt stress is a constraint on crop growth and productivity. When exposed to high salt stress, metabolic abnormalities that disrupt reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis result in massive oxygen radical deposition. Dendrobium huoshanense is a perennial orchid herb that thrives in semi-shade conditions. Although lots of studies have been undertaken on abiotic stresses (high temperature, chilling, drought, etc.) of model plants, few studies were reported on the mechanism of salt stress in D. huoshanense. Using a label-free protein quantification method, a total of 2,002 differential expressed proteins were identified in D. huoshanense. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment indicated that proteins involved in vitamin B6 metabolism, photosynthesis, spliceosome, arginine biosynthesis, oxidative phosphorylation, and MAPK signaling were considerably enriched. Remarkably, six malate dehydrogenases (MDHs) were identified from deferentially expressed proteins. (NAD+)-dependent MDH may directly participate in the biosynthesis of malate in the nocturnal crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) pathway. Additionally, peroxidases such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), peroxidase (POD), and catalase (CAT), as well as antioxidant enzymes involved in glutathione biosynthesis and some vitamins biosynthesis were also identified. Taken together, these results provide a solid foundation for the investigation of the mechanism of salt stress in Dendrobium spp.
PXD032001	35646067	Tyrosine Phosphorylation Profiling Revealed the Signaling Network Characteristics of CAMKK2 in Gastric Adenocarcinoma. 	Mining gastric cancer cellular quantitative phosphotyrosine proteomics data to analyse the signiling cascade regulated my CAMKK2 in gastric cancer	CAMKK2, Data Mining, Gastric cancer, STAT3, STO-609	Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase 2 (CAMKK2) is a serine/threonine protein kinase which functions via the calcium-triggered signaling cascade with CAMK1, CAMK4, and AMPKalpha as the immediate downstream substrates. CAMKK2 is reported to be overexpressed in gastric cancer; however, its signaling mechanism is poorly understood. We carried out label-free quantitative tyrosine phosphoproteomics to investigate tyrosine-mediated molecular signaling associated with CAMKK2 in gastric cancer cells. Using a high-resolution Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid Fourier-transform mass spectrometer, we identified 350 phosphotyrosine sites mapping to 157 proteins. We observed significant alterations in 81 phosphopeptides corresponding to 63 proteins upon inhibition of CAMKK2, among which 16 peptides were hyperphosphorylated corresponding to 13 proteins and 65 peptides were hypophosphorylated corresponding to 51 proteins. We report here that the inhibition of CAMKK2 leads to changes in the phosphorylation of several tyrosine kinases such as PKP2, PTK2, EPHA1, EPHA2, PRKCD, MAPK12, among others. Pathway analyses revealed that proteins are differentially phosphorylated in response to CAMKK2 inhibition involved in focal adhesions, actin cytoskeleton, axon guidance, and signaling by VEGF. The western blot analysis upon inhibition and/or silencing of CAMKK2 revealed a decrease in phosphorylation of PTK2 at Y925, c-JUN at S73, and STAT3 at Y705, which was in concordance with the mass spectrometry data. The study indicates that inhibition of CAMKK2 has an anti-oncogenic effect in gastric cells regulating phosphorylation of STAT3 through PTK2/c-JUN in gastric cancer.
PXD031466	35648456	Quantitative Site-Specific Chemoproteomic Profiling of Protein Lipoylation. 	Quantitative Site-specific Chemoproteomic Profiling of Protein Lipoylation	Lipoylation, Quantitative chemoproteomics., butyraldehyde probe (BAP)	Protein lipoylation is an evolutionarily conserved post-translational modification from prokaryotes to eukaryotes. Lipoylation is implicated with several human diseases, including metabolic disorders, cancer, and Alzheimer's disease. While individual lipoylated proteins have been biochemically studied, a strategy for globally quantifying lipoylation with site-specific resolution in proteomes is still lacking. Herein, we developed a butyraldehyde-alkynyl probe to specifically label and enrich lipoylations in complexed biological samples. Combined with a chemoproteomic pipeline using customized tandem enzyme digestions and a biotin enrichment tag with enhanced ionization, we successfully quantified all known lipoylation sites in both Escherichia coli (E. coli) and human proteomes. The strategy enabled us to dissect the dependence of three evolutionarily related lipoylation sites in dihydrolipoamide acetyltransferase (ODP2) in E. coli and evaluated the functional connection between the de novo lipoylation synthetic pathway and the salvage pathway. Our chemoproteomic platform provides a useful tool to monitor the state of lipoylation in proteome samples, which will help decipher molecular mechanisms of lipoylation-related diseases.
PXD020179	35650196	Characterisation of a nucleo-adhesome. 	Characterisation of FAK- and ILK-dependent nuclear subproteomes	FAK, ILK, adhesion, cancer, nucleus	In addition to central functions in cell adhesion signalling, integrin-associated proteins have wider roles at sites distal to adhesion receptors. In experimentally defined adhesomes, we noticed that there is clear enrichment of proteins that localise to the nucleus, and conversely, we now report that nuclear proteomes contain a class of adhesome components that localise to the nucleus. We here define a nucleo-adhesome, providing experimental evidence for a remarkable scale of nuclear localisation of adhesion proteins, establishing a framework for interrogating nuclear adhesion protein functions. Adding to nuclear FAK's known roles in regulating transcription, we now show that nuclear FAK regulates expression of many adhesion-related proteins that localise to the nucleus and that nuclear FAK binds to the adhesome component and nuclear protein Hic-5. FAK and Hic-5 work together in the nucleus, co-regulating a subset of genes transcriptionally. We demonstrate the principle that there are subcomplexes of nuclear adhesion proteins that cooperate to control transcription.
PXD032025	35650435	Stromal changes in the aged lung induce an emergence from melanoma dormancy. 	Stromal Changes in The Aged Lung Induce an Emergence From Melanoma Dormancy	Aged Lung, Melanoma, TMT10plex	Disseminated cancer cells from primary tumours can seed in distal tissues, but may take several years to form overt metastases, a phenomenon that is termed tumour dormancy. Despite its importance in metastasis and residual disease, few studies have been able to successfully characterize dormancy within melanoma. Here we show that the aged lung microenvironment facilitates a permissive niche for efficient outgrowth of dormant disseminated cancer cells-in contrast to the aged skin, in which age-related changes suppress melanoma growth but drive dissemination. These microenvironmental complexities can be explained by the phenotype switching model, which argues that melanoma cells switch between a proliferative cell state and a slower-cycling, invasive state(1-3). It was previously shown that dermal fibroblasts promote phenotype switching in melanoma during ageing(4-8). We now identify WNT5A as an activator of dormancy in melanoma disseminated cancer cells within the lung, which initially enables the efficient dissemination and seeding of melanoma cells in metastatic niches. Age-induced reprogramming of lung fibroblasts increases their secretion of the soluble WNT antagonist sFRP1, which inhibits WNT5A in melanoma cells and thereby enables efficient metastatic outgrowth. We also identify the tyrosine kinase receptors AXL and MER as promoting a dormancy-to-reactivation axis within melanoma cells. Overall, we find that age-induced changes in distal metastatic microenvironments promote the efficient reactivation of dormant melanoma cells in the lung.
PXD018529	35652611	Phosphoproteomic studies of alamandine signaling in CHO-MrgD and human pancreatic carcinoma cells: An antiproliferative effect is unveiled. 	Shedding lights on the alamandine signaling in CHO-MrgD and human pancreatic carcinoma cells: an antiproliferative effect was unveiled	Alamandine treatment, CHO, Human Proteome Project, Mia Paca-2, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Alamandine is a heptapeptide from the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) with similar structure/function to angiotensin-(1-7) [ang-(1-7)], but they act via different receptors. It remains elusive whether alamandine is an antiproliferative agent like ang-(1-7). The goal of this study was to evaluate the potential antiproliferative activity of alamandine and the underlying cellular signaling. We evaluated alamandine effect in the tumoral cell lines Mia PaCa-2 and A549, and in the nontumoral cell lines HaCaT, CHO and CHO transfected with the alamandine receptor MrgD (CHO-MrgD). Alamandine was able to reduce the proliferation of the tumoral cell lines in a MrgD-dependent fashion. We did not observe any effect in the nontumoral cell lines tested. We also performed proteomics and phosphoproteomics to study the alamandine signaling in Mia PaCa-2 and CHO-MrgD. Data suggest that alamandine induces a shift from anaerobic to aerobic metabolism in the tumoral cells, induces a negative regulation of PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway and activates the transcriptional factor FoxO1; events that could explain, at least partially, the observed antiproliferative effect of alamandine. This study provides for the first time a comprehensive investigation of the alamandine signaling in tumoral (Mia PaCa-2) and nontumoral (CHO-MrgD) cells, highlighting the antiproliferative activity of alamandine/MrgD and its possible antitumoral effect.
PXD033109	35652638	Restriction Checkpoint Controls Bradyzoite Development in Toxoplasma gondii. 	TgCrk2 interactome in Toxoplasma gondii RH and ME49 parasites	Crk, Cyclin, Restriction checkpoint, Toxoplasma gondii, bradyzoite, cell cycle, differentiation, tachyzoite	Human toxoplasmosis is a life-threatening disease caused by the apicomplexan parasite Toxoplasma gondii. Rapid replication of the tachyzoite is associated with symptomatic disease, while suppressed division of the bradyzoite is responsible for chronic disease. Here, we identified the T. gondii cell cycle mechanism, the G1 restriction checkpoint (R-point), that operates the switch between parasite growth and differentiation. Apicomplexans lack conventional R-point regulators, suggesting adaptation of alternative factors. We showed that Cdk-related G1 kinase TgCrk2 forms alternative complexes with atypical cyclins (TgCycP1, TgCycP2, and TgCyc5) in the rapidly dividing developmentally incompetent RH and slower dividing developmentally competent ME49 tachyzoites and bradyzoites. Examination of cyclins verified the correlation of cyclin expression with growth dependence and development capacity of RH and ME49 strains. We demonstrated that rapidly dividing RH tachyzoites were dependent on TgCycP1 expression, which interfered with bradyzoite differentiation. Using the conditional knockdown model, we established that TgCycP2 regulated G1 duration in the developmentally competent ME49 tachyzoites but not in the developmentally incompetent RH tachyzoites. We tested the functions of TgCycP2 and TgCyc5 in alkaline induced and spontaneous bradyzoite differentiation (rat embryonic brain cells) models. Based on functional and global gene expression analyses, we determined that TgCycP2 also regulated bradyzoite replication, while signal-induced TgCyc5 was critical for efficient tissue cyst maturation. In conclusion, we identified the central machinery of the T. gondii restriction checkpoint comprised of TgCrk2 kinase and three atypical T. gondii cyclins and demonstrated the independent roles of TgCycP1, TgCycP2, and TgCyc5 in parasite growth and development. IMPORTANCE Toxoplasma gondii is a virulent and abundant human pathogen that puts millions of silently infected people at risk of reactivation of the chronic disease. Encysted bradyzoites formed during the chronic stage are resistant to current therapies. Therefore, insights into the mechanism of tissue cyst formation and reactivation are major areas of investigation. The fact that rapidly dividing parasites differentiate poorly strongly suggests that there is a threshold of replication rate that must be crossed to be considered for differentiation. We discovered a cell cycle mechanism that controls the T. gondii growth-rest switch involved in the conversion of dividing tachyzoites into largely quiescent bradyzoites. This switch operates the T. gondii restriction checkpoint using a set of atypical and parasite-specific regulators. Importantly, the novel T. gondii R-point network was not present in the parasite's human and animal hosts, offering a wealth of new and parasite-specific drug targets to explore in the future.
PXD033557	35654137	Iron-regulated assembly of the cytosolic iron-sulfur cluster biogenesis machinery. 	Iron-Regulated Assembly of the Cytosolic Iron-Sulfur Cluster Biogenesis Machinery	PRM, iron-sulfur cluster, protein interactions	The cytosolic iron-sulfur (Fe-S) cluster assembly (CIA) pathway delivers Fe-S clusters to nuclear and cytosolic Fe-S proteins involved in essential cellular functions. Although the delivery process is regulated by the availability of iron and oxygen, it remains unclear how CIA components orchestrate the cluster transfer under varying cellular environments. Here, we utilized a targeted proteomics assay for monitoring CIA factors and substrates to characterize the CIA machinery. We find that nucleotide-binding protein 1 (NUBP1/NBP35), cytosolic iron-sulfur assembly component 3 (CIAO3/NARFL), and CIA substrates associate with nucleotide-binding protein 2 (NUBP2/CFD1), a component of the CIA scaffold complex. NUBP2 also weakly associates with the CIA targeting complex (MMS19, CIAO1, and CIAO2B) indicating the possible existence of a higher order complex. Interactions between CIAO3 and the CIA scaffold complex are strengthened upon iron supplementation or low oxygen tension, while iron chelation and reactive oxygen species weaken CIAO3 interactions with CIA components. We further demonstrate that CIAO3 mutants defective in Fe-S cluster binding fail to integrate into the higher order complexes. However, these mutants exhibit stronger associations with CIA substrates under conditions in which the association with the CIA targeting complex is reduced suggesting that CIAO3 and CIA substrates may associate in complexes independently of the CIA targeting complex. Together, our data suggest that CIA components potentially form a metabolon whose assembly is regulated by environmental cues and requires Fe-S cluster incorporation in CIAO3. These findings provide additional evidence that the CIA pathway adapts to changes in cellular environment through complex reorganization.
PXD031607	35655564	Triazolinedione protein modification: from an overlooked off-target effect to a tryptophan-based bioconjugation strategy. 	Triazolinedione protein modification: from an overlooked off-target effect to a tryptophan-based bioconjugation strategy	Protein Modification, Site-Selective Protein Modification, TAD, Tryptophan	Labelling of tyrosine residues in peptides and proteins has been reported to selectively occur via a 'tyrosine-click' reaction with triazolinedione reagents (TAD). However, we here demonstrate that TAD reagents are actually not selective for tyrosine and that tryptophan residues are in fact also labelled with these reagents. This off-target labelling remained under the radar as it is challenging to detect these physiologically stable but thermally labile modifications with the commonly used HCD and CID MS/MS techniques. We show that selectivity of tryptophan over tyrosine can be achieved by lowering the pH of the aqueous buffer to effect selective Trp-labelling. Given the low relative abundance of tryptophan compared to tyrosine in natural proteins, this results in a new site-selective bioconjugation method that does not rely on enzymes nor unnatural amino acids and is demonstrated for peptides and recombinant proteins.
PXD028597	35656858	A multi-omics approach identifies pancreatic cancer cell extracellular vesicles as mediators of the unfolded protein response in normal pancreatic epithelial cells. 	A multi-omics approach identifies pancreatic cancer cell extracellular vesicles as mediators of the unfolded protein response in normal pancreatic epithelial cells.	Cancer, Extracellular Vesicles, Pancreas	Although cancer-derived extracellular vesicles (cEVs) are thought to play a pivotal role in promoting cancer progression events, their precise effect on neighbouring normal cells is unknown. In this study, we investigated the impact of pancreatic cancer ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) derived EVs on recipient non-tumourigenic pancreatic normal epithelial cells upon internalization. We demonstrate that cEVs are readily internalized and induce endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the unfolded protein response (UPR) in treated normal pancreatic epithelial cells within 24 h. We further show that PDAC cEVs increase cell proliferation, migration, and invasion and that these changes are regulated at least in part, by the UPR mediator DDIT3. Subsequently, these cells release several inflammatory cytokines. Leveraging a layered multi-omics approach, we analysed EV cargo from a panel of six PDAC and two normal pancreas cell lines, using multiple EV isolation methods. We found that cEVs were enriched for an array of biomolecules which can induce or regulate ER stress and the UPR, including palmitic acid, sphingomyelins, metabolic regulators of tRNA charging and proteins which regulate trafficking and degradation. We further show that palmitic acid, at doses relevant to those found in cEVs, is sufficient to induce ER stress in normal pancreas cells. These results suggest that cEV cargo packaging may be designed to disseminate proliferative and invasive characteristics upon internalization by distant recipient normal cells, hitherto unreported. This study is among the first to highlight a major role for PDAC cEVs to induce stress in treated normal pancreas cells that may modulate a systemic response leading to altered phenotypes. These findings highlight the importance of EVs in mediating disease aetiology and open potential areas of investigation toward understanding the role of cEV lipids in promoting cell transformation in the surrounding microenvironment.
PXD026802	35657417	Brain proteome profiling implicates the complement and coagulation cascade in multiple system atrophy brain pathology. 	Deep proteome profiling of human cerebrospinal fluid from patients diagnosed with Multiple System Atrophy, Parkinson's Disease, Dementia with Lewy Bodies, Progressive Supranuclear Palsy, and from Controls	Dementia with Lewy Bodies, EvoSep, Multiple System Atrophy, Parkinson's Disease, Progressive Supranuclear Palsy, Q-Exactive HF-X, cerebrospinal fluid	BACKGROUND: Multiple system atrophy (MSA) is a rare, progressive, neurodegenerative disorder presenting glia pathology. Still, disease etiology and pathophysiology are unknown, but neuro-inflammation and vascular disruption may be contributing factors to the disease progression. Here, we performed an ex vivo deep proteome profiling of the prefrontal cortex of MSA patients to reveal disease-relevant molecular neuropathological processes. Observations were validated in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of novel cross-sectional patient cohorts. METHODS: Brains from 45 MSA patients and 30 normal controls (CTRLs) were included. Brain samples were homogenized and trypsinized for peptide formation and analyzed by high-performance liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Results were supplemented by western blotting, immuno-capture, tissue clearing and 3D imaging, immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence. Subsequent measurements of glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) and neuro-filament light chain (NFL) levels were performed by immunoblotting in plasma of 20 MSA patients and 20 CTRLs. Finally, we performed a proteome profiling of 144 CSF samples from MSA and CTRLs, as well as other parkinsonian disorders. Data were analyzed using relevant parametric and non-parametric two-sample tests or linear regression tests followed by post hoc tests corrected for multiple testing. Additionally, high-throughput bioinformatic analyses were applied. RESULTS: We quantified more than 4,000 proteins across samples and identified 49 differentially expressed proteins with significantly different abundances in MSA patients compared with CTRLs. Pathway analyses showed enrichment of processes related to fibrinolysis and complement cascade activation. Increased fibrinogen subunit beta (FGB) protein levels were further verified, and we identified an enriched recognition of FGB by IgGs as well as intra-parenchymal accumulation around blood vessels. We corroborated blood-brain barrier leakage by a significant increase in GFAP and NFL plasma levels in MSA patients that correlated to disease severity and/or duration. Proteome profiling of CSF samples acquired during the disease course, confirmed increased total fibrinogen levels and immune-related components in the soluble fraction of MSA patients. This was also true for the other atypical parkinsonian disorders, dementia with Lewy bodies and progressive supra-nuclear palsy, but not for Parkinson's disease patients. CONCLUSION: Our results implicate activation of the fibrinolytic cascade and immune system in the brain as contributing factors in MSA associated with a more severe disease course.
PXD030375	35658452	Proteomic Analysis of Oil-Roasted Cashews Using a Customized Allergen-Focused Protein Database. 	Proteomic Analysis of Oil-Roasted Cashew Using a Customized Allergen-Focused Protein Database	Allergen, Cashew, Oil roasting, Proteogenomics	Cashews are one of the most prevalent causes of tree nut allergies. However, the cashew proteome is far from complete, which limits the quality of peptide identification in mass spectrometric analyses. In this study, bioinformatics tools were utilized to construct a customized cashew protein database and improve sequence quality for proteins of interest, based on a publicly available cashew genome database. As a result, two additional isoforms for cashew 2S albumins and five other isoforms for cashew 11S proteins were identified, along with several other potential allergens. Using the optimized protein database, the protein profiles of cashew nuts subjected to different oil-roasting conditions (139 and 166 degreesC for 2-10 min) were analyzed using discovery LC-MS/MS analysis. The results showed that the cashew 2S protein is most heat-stable, followed by 11S and 7S proteins, though protein isoforms might be affected differently. Preliminary target peptide selection indicated that out of the 29 potential targets, 18 peptides were derived from the newly developed database. In the evaluation of thermal processing effects on cashew proteins, several Maillard reaction adducts were also identified. The cashew protein database developed in this study allows for comprehensive analyses of cashew proteins and development of high-quality allergen detection methods.
PXD030493	35658915	Exposure of human cerebral microvascular endothelial cells hCMEC/D3 to laminar shear stress induces vascular protective responses. 	Proteomic profiling of hCMEC/D3 cells exposed 3 days to laminar physiological shear stress	Endothelial cells, Q-exactive, blood-brain barrier, bottom up LFQ proteomics, brain microvessels, shear stress	Endothelial cells (ECs) are constantly submitted in vivo to hemodynamical forces derived from the blood circulation, including shear stress (SS). ECs are able to detect SS and consequently adapt their phenotype, thus affecting many endothelial functions. If a plethora of shear stress-regulated molecular networks have been described in peripheral ECs, less is known about the molecular responses of microvascular brain ECs which constitute the blood-brain barrier (BBB). In this work, we investigated the response of human cerebral microvascular ECs to laminar physiological shear stress using the well characterized hCMEC/D3 cell line. Interestingly, we showed that hCMEC/D3 cells responded to shear stress by aligning perpendicularly to the flow direction, contrary to peripheral endothelial cells which aligned in the flow direction. Whole proteomic profiles were compared between hCMEC/D3 cells cultured either in static condition or under 5 or 10 dyn.cm(-2) SS for 3 days. 3592 proteins were identified and expression levels were significantly affected for 3% of them upon both SS conditions. Pathway analyses were performed which revealed that most proteins overexpressed by SS refer to the antioxidant defense, probably mediated by activation of the NRF2 transcriptional factor. Regarding down-regulated proteins, most of them participate to the pro-inflammatory response, cell motility and proliferation. These findings confirm the induction of EC quiescence by laminar physiological SS and reveal a strong protective effect of SS on hCMEC/D3 cells, suggesting a similar effect on the BBB. Our results also showed that SS did not significantly increase expression levels nor did it affect the localization of junctional proteins and did not afect either the functional activity of several ABC transporters (P-glycoprotein and MRPs). This work provides new insights on the response of microvascular brain ECs to SS and on the importance of SS for optimizing in vitro BBB models.
PXD031332	35659261	Bayesian analysis of dynamic phosphoproteomic data identifies protein kinases mediating GPCR responses. 	Bayesian Analysis of Dynamic Phosphoproteomic Data Identifies Protein Kinases Mediating Responses to a Galphas-Coupled GPCR	Baysian Analysis, GPCR, Phospho Proteomics, Protein Kinases, Vasopression	BACKGROUND: A major goal in the discovery of cellular signaling networks is to identify regulated phosphorylation sites ("phosphosites") and map them to the responsible protein kinases. The V2 vasopressin receptor is a G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) that is responsible for regulation of renal water excretion through control of aquaporin-2-mediated osmotic water transport in kidney collecting duct cells. Genome editing experiments have demonstrated that virtually all vasopressin-triggered phosphorylation changes are dependent on protein kinase A (PKA), but events downstream from PKA are still obscure. METHODS: Here, we used: 1) Tandem mass tag-based quantitative phosphoproteomics to experimentally track phosphorylation changes over time in native collecting ducts isolated from rat kidneys; 2) a clustering algorithm to classify time course data based on abundance changes and the amino acid sequences surrounding the phosphosites; and 3) Bayes' Theorem to integrate the dynamic phosphorylation data with multiple prior "omic" data sets covering expression, subcellular location, known kinase activity, and characteristic surrounding sequences to identify a set of protein kinases that are regulated secondary to PKA activation. RESULTS: Phosphoproteomic studies revealed 185 phosphosites regulated by vasopressin over 15 min. The resulting groups from the cluster algorithm were integrated with Bayes' Theorem to produce corresponding ranked lists of kinases likely responsible for each group. The top kinases establish three PKA-dependent protein kinase modules whose regulation mediate the physiological effects of vasopressin at a cellular level. The three modules are 1) a pathway involving several Rho/Rac/Cdc42-dependent protein kinases that control actin cytoskeleton dynamics; 2) mitogen-activated protein kinase and cyclin-dependent kinase pathways that control cell proliferation; and 3) calcium/calmodulin-dependent signaling. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings identify a novel set of downstream small GTPase effectors and calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinases with potential roles in the regulation of water permeability through actin cytoskeleton rearrangement and aquaporin-2 trafficking. The proposed signaling network provides a stronger hypothesis for the kinases mediating V2 vasopressin receptor responses, encouraging future targeted examination via reductionist approaches. Furthermore, the Bayesian analysis described here provides a template for investigating signaling via other biological systems and GPCRs. Video abstract.
PXD027913	35660019	Proprotein convertase PCSK9 affects expression of key surface proteins in human pancreatic beta cells via intracellular and extracellular regulatory circuits. 	PSCK9 knockdown in EndoC-bH1 cells at 72 h (DIA secretome experiment)	EndoC-bH1, PCSK9	Proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 9 (PCSK9) is involved in the degradation of the low-density lipoprotein receptor. PCSK9 also targets proteins involved in lipid metabolism (very low-density lipoprotein receptor), immunity (major histocompatibility complex I), and viral infection (cluster of differentiation 81). Recent studies have also indicated that PCSK9 loss-of-function mutations are associated with an increased incidence of diabetes; however, the expression and function of PCSK9 in insulin-producing pancreatic beta cells remain unclear. Here, we studied PCSK9 regulation and function by performing loss- and gain-of-function experiments in the human beta cell line EndoC-betaH1. We demonstrate that PCSK9 is expressed and secreted by EndoC-betaH1 cells. We also found that PCSK9 expression is regulated by cholesterol and sterol regulatory element-binding protein transcription factors, as previously demonstrated in other cell types such as hepatocytes. Importantly, we show that PCSK9 knockdown using siRNA results in deregulation of various elements of the transcriptome, proteome, and secretome, and increases insulin secretion. We also observed that PCSK9 decreases low-density lipoprotein receptor and very low-density lipoprotein receptor levels via an extracellular signaling mechanism involving exogenous PCSK9, as well as levels of cluster of differentiation 36, a fatty acid transporter, through an intracellular signaling mechanism. Finally, we found that PCSK9 regulates the cell surface expression of PDL1 and HLA-ABC, proteins involved in cell-lymphocyte interaction, also via an intracellular mechanism. Collectively, these results highlight PCSK9 as a regulator of multiple cell surface receptors in pancreatic beta cells.
PXD028460	35662277	GDAP1 loss of function inhibits the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex by altering the actin cytoskeleton. 	GDAP1 loss of function inhibits the mitochondrial pyruvate dehydrogenase complex by altering the actin cytoskeleton	GDAP1, LC-MS, beta-oxidation	Charcot-Marie-Tooth (CMT) disease 4A is an autosomal-recessive polyneuropathy caused by mutations of ganglioside-induced differentiation-associated protein 1 (GDAP1), a putative glutathione transferase, which affects mitochondrial shape and alters cellular Ca(2+) homeostasis. Here, we identify the underlying mechanism. We found that patient-derived motoneurons and GDAP1 knockdown SH-SY5Y cells display two phenotypes: more tubular mitochondria and a metabolism characterized by glutamine dependence and fewer cytosolic lipid droplets. GDAP1 interacts with the actin-depolymerizing protein Cofilin-1 and beta-tubulin in a redox-dependent manner, suggesting a role for actin signaling. Consistently, GDAP1 loss causes less F-actin close to mitochondria, which restricts mitochondrial localization of the fission factor dynamin-related protein 1, instigating tubularity. GDAP1 silencing also disrupts mitochondria-ER contact sites. These changes result in lower mitochondrial Ca(2+) levels and inhibition of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, explaining the metabolic changes upon GDAP1 loss of function. Together, our findings reconcile GDAP1-associated phenotypes and implicate disrupted actin signaling in CMT4A pathophysiology.
PXD025030	35663896	Genome-Wide Mutant Screening in Yeast Reveals that the Cell Wall is a First Shield to Discriminate Light From Heavy Lanthanides. 	Proteomics of Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutants subjected to lanthanide stress	bacteria, lanthanide, molecular phenotyping, proteome dynamics, stress	The rapidly expanding utilization of lanthanides (Ln) for the development of new technologies, green energies, and agriculture has raised concerns regarding their impacts on the environment and human health. The absence of characterization of the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms regarding their toxicity is a caveat in the apprehension of their environmental impacts. We performed genomic phenotyping and molecular physiology analyses of Saccharomyces cerevisiae mutants exposed to La and Yb to uncover genes and pathways affecting Ln resistance and toxicity. Ln responses strongly differed from well-known transition metal and from common responses mediated by oxidative compounds. Shared response pathways to La and Yb exposure were associated to lipid metabolism, ion homeostasis, vesicular trafficking, and endocytosis, which represents a putative way of entry for Ln. Cell wall organization and related signaling pathways allowed for the discrimination of light and heavy Ln. Mutants in cell wall integrity-related proteins (e.g., Kre1p, Kre6p) or in the activation of secretory pathway and cell wall proteins (e.g., Kex2p, Kex1p) were resistant to Yb but sensitive to La. Exposure of WT yeast to the serine protease inhibitor tosyl phenylalanyl chloromethyl ketone mimicked the phenotype of kex2increment under Ln, strengthening these results. Our data also suggest that the relative proportions of chitin and phosphomannan could modulate the proportion of functional groups (phosphates and carboxylates) to which La and Yb could differentially bind. Moreover, we showed that kex2increment, kex1increment, kre1increment, and kre6increment strains were all sensitive to light Ln (La to Eu), while being increasingly resistant to heavier Ln. Finally, shotgun proteomic analyses identified modulated proteins in kex2increment exposed to Ln, among which several plasmalemma ion transporters that were less abundant and that could play a role in Yb uptake. By combining these different approaches, we unraveled that cell wall components not only act in Ln adsorption but are also active signal effectors allowing cells to differentiate light and heavy Ln. This work paves the way for future investigations to the better understanding of Ln toxicity in higher eukaryotes.
PXD031942	35665154	Regulatory Modules of Metabolites and Protein Phosphorylation in Arabidopsis Genotypes With Altered Sucrose Allocation. 	Day-night phosphoproteome analysis in WT, pgm mutant and sweet11/sweet12 mutant	Arabidopsis shoot/root, end of day, end of night, membrane fraction, pgm, sweet1/sweet12	Multi-omics data sets are increasingly being used for the interpretation of cellular processes in response to environmental cues. Especially, the posttranslational modification of proteins by phosphorylation is an important regulatory process affecting protein activity and/or localization, which, in turn, can have effects on metabolic processes and metabolite levels. Despite this importance, relationships between protein phosphorylation status and metabolite abundance remain largely underexplored. Here, we used a phosphoproteomics-metabolomics data set collected at the end of day and night in shoots and roots of Arabidopsis to propose regulatory relationships between protein phosphorylation and accumulation or allocation of metabolites. For this purpose, we introduced a novel, robust co-expression measure suited to the structure of our data sets, and we used this measure to construct metabolite-phosphopeptide networks. These networks were compared between wild type and plants with perturbations in key processes of sugar metabolism, namely, sucrose export (sweet11/12 mutant) and starch synthesis (pgm mutant). The phosphopeptide-metabolite network turned out to be highly sensitive to perturbations in sugar metabolism. Specifically, KING1, the regulatory subunit of SnRK1, was identified as a primary candidate connecting protein phosphorylation status with metabolism. We additionally identified strong changes in the fatty acid network of the sweet11/12 mutant, potentially resulting from a combination of fatty acid signaling and metabolic overflow reactions in response to high internal sucrose concentrations. Our results further suggest novel protein-metabolite relationships as candidates for future targeted research.
PXD030774	35665862	BRD2 interconnects with BRD3 to facilitate Pol II transcription initiation and elongation to prime promoters for cell differentiation. 	BRD2 interconnects with BRD3 to facilitate Pol II transcription initiation and elongation to prime promoters for cell differentiation	BRD2, BRD3, cell differentiation, transcriptional initiation and elongation	The bromodomain and extraterminal motif (BET) proteins are critical drug targets for diseases. The precise functions and relationship of BRD2 with other BET proteins remain elusive mechanistically. Here, we used acute protein degradation and quantitative genomic and proteomic approaches to investigate the primary functions of BRD2 in transcription. We report that BRD2 is required for TAF3-mediated Pol II initiation at promoters with low levels of H3K4me3 and for R-loop suppression during Pol II elongation. Single and double depletion revealed that BRD2 and BRD3 function additively, independently, or perhaps antagonistically in Pol II transcription at different promoters. Furthermore, we found that BRD2 regulates the expression of different genes during embryonic body differentiation processes by promoter priming in embryonic stem cells. Therefore, our results suggest complex interconnections between BRD2 and BRD3 at promoters to fine-tune Pol II initiation and elongation for control of cell state.
PXD028400	35666001	Proteomic analysis reveals stage-specific reprogramed metabolism for the primary breast cancer cell lines MGSO-3 and MACL-1. 	Proteomic study of triple negative breast cancer cell lines at different tumorigenic stages reveals a divergent reprogramming metabolism	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Breast Cancer, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), TMT	Breast cancer is the most prevalent cancer in women worldwide. Its molecular subtypes are based on the presence/absence of estrogen receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PR), and human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). MACL-1 and MGSO-3 are cell lines derived from primary tumor sites of patients diagnosed with luminal A subtype carcinoma (ER+/PR+/HER2-) and ductal carcinoma in situ (ER-/PR-/HER2+), respectively. However, these cell lines lost the expression of these markers over cell culturing, and both have triple-negative phenotypes (ER-/PR-/HER2-), which has the poorest prognosis. Here, we sought to study the proteome signature of MGSO-3 and MACL-1, comparing them with the epithelial cell line MCF-10A and the well-established metastatic-derived breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231. Our results showed that proteins associated with the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) were upregulated in MGSO-3 and MACL-1 cells. These cell lines also showed upregulation of pro-apoptotic proteins when compared with MDA-MB-231. The molecular differences highlighted in this study may clarify the molecular basis behind cancer cells functioning and may reveal novel signatures across the breast cancer cell models.
PXD026713	35666179	Identification and functional annotation of long intergenic non-coding RNAs in Brassicaceae. 	Dynamic maps of protein-protein-metabolite complexes of Arabidopsis Thaliana seedlings	ligand, protein-metabolite complexes, protein-protein complexes	Long intergenic noncoding RNAs (lincRNAs) are a large yet enigmatic class of eukaryotic transcripts that can have critical biological functions. The wealth of RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) data available for plants provides the opportunity to implement a harmonized identification and annotation effort for lincRNAs that enables cross-species functional and genomic comparisons as well as prioritization of functional candidates. In this study, we processed >24 Tera base pairs of RNA-seq data from >16,000 experiments to identify ~130,000 lincRNAs in four Brassicaceae: Arabidopsis thaliana, Camelina sativa, Brassica rapa, and Eutrema salsugineum. We used nanopore RNA-seq, transcriptome-wide structural information, peptide data, and epigenomic data to characterize these lincRNAs and identify conserved motifs. We then used comparative genomic and transcriptomic approaches to highlight lincRNAs in our data set with sequence or transcriptional conservation. Finally, we used guilt-by-association analyses to assign putative functions to lincRNAs within our data set. We tested this approach on a subset of lincRNAs associated with germination and seed development, observing germination defects for Arabidopsis lines harboring T-DNA insertions at these loci. LincRNAs with Brassicaceae-conserved putative miRNA binding motifs, small open reading frames, or abiotic-stress modulated expression are a few of the annotations that will guide functional analyses into this cryptic portion of the transcriptome.
PXD021356	35666874	Signatures of glial activity can be detected in the CSF proteome. 	Cerebrospinal Fluid (CSF) Proteomics of A30P-alphaS mice	CSF, Cerebrospinal Fluid, Parkinsons disease	Single-cell transcriptomics has revealed specific glial activation states associated with the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. While these findings may eventually lead to new therapeutic opportunities, little is known about how these glial responses are reflected by biomarker changes in bodily fluids. Such knowledge, however, appears crucial for patient stratification, as well as monitoring disease progression and treatment responses in clinical trials. Here, we took advantage of well-described mouse models of beta-amyloidosis and alpha-synucleinopathy to explore cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteome changes related to their respective proteopathic lesions. Nontargeted liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry revealed that the majority of proteins that undergo age-related changes in CSF of either mouse model were linked to microglia and astrocytes. Specifically, we identified a panel of more than 20 glial-derived proteins that were increased in CSF of aged beta-amyloid precursor protein- and alpha-synuclein-transgenic mice and largely overlap with previously described disease-associated glial genes identified by single-cell transcriptomics. Our results also show that enhanced shedding is responsible for the increase of several of the identified glial CSF proteins as exemplified for TREM2. Notably, the vast majority of these proteins can also be quantified in human CSF and reveal changes in Alzheimer's disease cohorts. The finding that cellular transcriptome changes translate into corresponding changes of CSF proteins is of clinical relevance, supporting efforts to identify fluid biomarkers that reflect the various functional states of glial responses in cerebral proteopathies, such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.
PXD029063	35668171	Proteomic and clinical biomarkers for acute mountain sickness in a longitudinal cohort. 	Proteomic and clinical biomarkers for acute mountain sickness diagnosis, prognosis, protection, and pathogenesis in a longitudinal cohort	Acute mountain sickness, biomarker, multiple reaction monitoring, proximity extension assay	Ascending to high-altitude by non-high-altitude natives is a well-suited model for studying acclimatization to extreme environments. Acute mountain sickness (AMS) is frequently experienced by visitors. The diagnosis of AMS mainly depends on a self-questionnaire, revealing the need for reliable biomarkers for AMS. Here, we profiled 22 AMS symptom phenotypes, 65 clinical indexes, and plasma proteomic profiles of AMS via a combination of proximity extension assay and multiple reaction monitoring of a longitudinal cohort of 53 individuals. We quantified 1069 proteins and validated 102 proteins. Via differential analysis, machine learning, and functional association analyses. We found and validated that RET played an important role in the pathogenesis of AMS. With high-accuracies (AUCs > 0.9) of XGBoost-based models, we prioritized ADAM15, PHGDH, and TRAF2 as protective, predictive, and diagnostic biomarkers, respectively. Our findings shed light on the precision medicine for AMS and the understanding of acclimatization to high-altitude environments.
PXD031978	35668950	Proteomic Study on the Reproductive Toxicity of Tripterygium Glycosides in Rats. 	Proteomic study on the reproductive toxicity of Tripterygium glycosides in rats	molecular mechanism, proteomics reproductive toxicity, testis	Tripterygium glycoside tablet (TGT) is a common clinically used and effective non-steroidal immunosuppressant. However, its reproductive toxicity limits its application in pediatric immune diseases, warranting the study of the molecular mechanism behind its reproductive toxicity. In the present study, 4-week-old male Sprague Dawley (SD) rats were provided TGT through continuous gavage with a clinically equivalent dose of 12 mg/kg for 12 weeks. The reproductive toxicity of TGT was recorded, and its toxicity mechanism was verified through experimental validation and proteomics analyses. Our results demonstrated that TGT could significantly reduce the testosterone level in the serum as well as the concentration and survival rate of sperms. Pathological sections of the testis revealed that TGT could reduce spermatocytes at different levels and make the convoluted meridians vacuolated. Based on tandem mass tag (TMT)-labeled quantitative rats testicular tissue proteomics, 34 differential proteins were screened, involving protein digestion and absorption, PPAR signaling pathway, PI3K-Akt, and other pathways, among which PI3K-Akt plays an important role in the study of reproductive injury. Western blotting results revealed that TGT could significantly downregulate the Col1A1, Col1A2, p-PI3K, and p-Akt expressions and inhibit the expression of proteins related to the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. In summary, the clinically equivalent dose of TGT induced reproductive toxicity of 4-week-old male SD rats, possibly in relation to the inhibition of the PI3K-Akt pathway expression.
PXD030430	35669581	Extracellular Matrix-Oriented Proteomic Analysis of Periodontal Ligament Under Mechanical Stress. 	Mouse periodontal ligament tissue after orthodontic tooth movement	mechanical stress, periodontal ligament	The periodontal ligament (PDL) is a specialized connective tissue that provides structural support to the tooth and is crucial for oral functions. The mechanical properties of the PDL are mainly derived from the tissue-specific composition and structural characteristics of the extracellular matrix (ECM). The ECM also plays key roles in determining cell fate in the cellular microenvironment thus crucial in the PDL tissue homeostasis. In the present study, we determined the comprehensive ECM profile of mouse molar PDL using laser microdissection and mass spectrometry-based proteomic analysis with ECM-oriented data curation. Additionally, we evaluated changes in the ECM proteome under mechanical loading using a mouse orthodontic tooth movement (OTM) model and analyzed potential regulatory networks using a bioinformatics approach. Proteomic changes were evaluated in reference to the novel second harmonic generation (SHG)-based fiber characterization. Our ECM-oriented proteomics approach succeeded in illustrating the comprehensive ECM profile of the mouse molar PDL. We revealed the presence of type II collagen in PDL, possibly associated with the load-bearing function upon occlusal force. Mechanical loading induced unique architectural changes in collagen fibers along with dynamic compositional changes in the matrisome profile, particularly involving ECM glycoproteins and matrisome-associated proteins. We identified several unique matrisome proteins which responded to the different modes of mechanical loading in PDL. Notably, the proportion of type VI collagen significantly increased at the mesial side, contributing to collagen fibrogenesis. On the other hand, type XII collagen increased at the PDL-cementum boundary of the distal side. Furthermore, a multifaceted bioinformatics approach illustrated the potential molecular cues, including PDGF signaling, that maintain ECM homeostasis under mechanical loading. Our findings provide fundamental insights into the molecular network underlying ECM homeostasis in PDL, which is vital for clinical diagnosis and development of biomimetic tissue-regeneration strategies.
PXD022616	35670662	THO complex deficiency impairs DNA double-strand break repair via the RNA surveillance kinase SMG-1. 	Phosphoproteomics of C.elegans RNA binding protein mutants	C.elegans	The integrity and proper expression of genomes are safeguarded by DNA and RNA surveillance pathways. While many RNA surveillance factors have additional functions in the nucleus, little is known about the incidence and physiological impact of converging RNA and DNA signals. Here, using genetic screens and genome-wide analyses, we identified unforeseen SMG-1-dependent crosstalk between RNA surveillance and DNA repair in living animals. Defects in RNA processing, due to viable THO complex or PNN-1 mutations, induce a shift in DNA repair in dividing and non-dividing tissues. Loss of SMG-1, an ATM/ATR-like kinase central to RNA surveillance by nonsense-mediated decay (NMD), restores DNA repair and radio-resistance in THO-deficient animals. Mechanistically, we find SMG-1 and its downstream target SMG-2/UPF1, but not NMD per se, to suppress DNA repair by non-homologous end-joining in favour of single strand annealing. We postulate that moonlighting proteins create short-circuits in vivo, allowing aberrant RNA to redirect DNA repair.
PXD030453	35671824	Neural stemness unifies cell tumorigenicity and pluripotent differentiation potential. 	Identification of Setdb1 interaction proteins in neural stem cells	Setdb1, neural stem cell	Neural stemness is suggested to be the ground state of tumorigenicity and pluripotent differentiation potential. However, the relationship between these cell properties is unclear. Here, by disrupting the neural regulatory network in neural stem and cancer cells and by serial transplantation of cancer cells, we show that tumorigenicity and pluripotent differentiation potential are coupled cell properties unified by neural stemness. We show that loss of neural stemness via inhibition of SETDB1, an oncoprotein with enriched expression in embryonic neural cells during vertebrate embryogenesis, led to neuronal differentiation with reduced tumorigenicity and pluripotent differentiation potential in neural stem and cancer cells, whereas enhancement of neural stemness by SETDB1 overexpression caused the opposite effects. SETDB1 maintains a regulatory network comprising proteins involved in developmental programs and basic cellular functional machineries, including epigenetic modifications (EZH2), ribosome biogenesis (RPS3), translation initiation (EIF4G), and spliceosome assembly (SF3B1); all of these proteins are enriched in embryonic neural cells and play active roles in cancers. In addition, SETDB1 represses the transcription of genes promoting differentiation and cell cycle and growth arrest. Serial transplantation of cancer cells showed that neural stemness, tumorigenicity, and pluripotent differentiation potential were simultaneously enhanced; these effects were accompanied by increased expression of proteins involved in developmental programs and basic machineries, including SETDB1 and the abovementioned proteins, as well as by increased alternative splicing events. These results indicate that basic machineries work together to define a highly proliferative state with pluripotent differentiation potential and also suggest that neural stemness unifies tumorigenicity and differentiation potential.
PXD029502	35674377	Analysis of the Arabidopsis coilin mutant reveals a positive role of AtCOILIN in plant immunity. 	Arabidopsis Coilin mutant LC-MS/MS	DIA, coilin	Biogenesis of ribonucleoproteins occurs in dynamic subnuclear compartments called Cajal bodies (CBs). COILIN is a critical scaffolding component essential for CB formation, composition, and activity. We recently showed that Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) AtCOILIN is phosphorylated in response to bacterial elicitor treatment. Here, we further investigated the role of AtCOILIN in plant innate immunity. Atcoilin mutants are compromised in defense responses to bacterial pathogens. Besides confirming a role of AtCOILIN in alternative splicing (AS), Atcoilin showed differential expression of genes that are distinct from those of AS, including factors involved in RNA biogenesis, metabolism, plant immunity, and phytohormones. Atcoilin mutant plants have reduced levels of defense phytohormones. As expected, the mutant plants were more sensitive to the necrotrophic fungal pathogen Botrytis cinerea. Our findings reveal an important role for AtCOILIN in innate plant immunity.
PXD026813	35674491	METTL18-mediated histidine methylation of RPL3 modulates translation elongation for proteostasis maintenance. 	ProSeAM SILAC MS screening for METTL18 substrates	METTL18, ProSeAM	Protein methylation occurs predominantly on lysine and arginine residues, but histidine also serves as a methylation substrate. However, a limited number of enzymes responsible for this modification have been reported. Moreover, the biological role of histidine methylation has remained poorly understood to date. Here, we report that human METTL18 is a histidine methyltransferase for the ribosomal protein RPL3 and that the modification specifically slows ribosome traversal on Tyr codons, allowing the proper folding of synthesized proteins. By performing an in vitro methylation assay with a methyl donor analog and quantitative mass spectrometry, we found that His245 of RPL3 is methylated at the tau-N position by METTL18. Structural comparison of the modified and unmodified ribosomes showed stoichiometric modification and suggested a role in translation reactions. Indeed, genome-wide ribosome profiling and an in vitro translation assay revealed that translation elongation at Tyr codons was suppressed by RPL3 methylation. Because the slower elongation provides enough time for nascent protein folding, RPL3 methylation protects cells from the cellular aggregation of Tyr-rich proteins. Our results reveal histidine methylation as an example of a ribosome modification that ensures proteome integrity in cells.
PXD031842	35674692	SARS-CoV-2 ORF10 impairs cilia by enhancing CUL2ZYG11B activity. 	SARS-CoV-2 ORF10 impairs cilia by enhancing CUL2ZYG11B  activity	SARS-CoV-2 ORF10, cilia	Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is the causal pathogen of the ongoing global pandemic of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). Loss of smell and taste are symptoms of COVID-19, and may be related to cilia dysfunction. Here, we found that the SARS-CoV-2 ORF10 increases the overall E3 ligase activity of the CUL2ZYG11B complex by interacting with ZYG11B. Enhanced CUL2ZYG11B activity by ORF10 causes increased ubiquitination and subsequent proteasome-mediated degradation of an intraflagellar transport (IFT) complex B protein, IFT46, thereby impairing both cilia biogenesis and maintenance. Further, we show that exposure of the respiratory tract of hACE2 mice to SARS-CoV-2 or SARS-CoV-2 ORF10 alone results in cilia-dysfunction-related phenotypes, and the ORF10 expression in primary human nasal epithelial cells (HNECs) also caused a rapid loss of the ciliary layer. Our study demonstrates how SARS-CoV-2 ORF10 hijacks CUL2ZYG11B to eliminate IFT46 and leads to cilia dysfunction, thereby offering a powerful etiopathological explanation for how SARS-CoV-2 causes multiple cilia-dysfunction-related symptoms specific to COVID-19.
PXD026796	35675371	A novel SNF2 ATPase complex in Trypanosoma brucei with a role in H2A.Z-mediated chromatin remodelling. 	A novel SNF2 ATPase complex in Trypanosoma brucei with a role in H2A.Z-mediated chromatin remodelling		A cascade of histone acetylation events with subsequent incorporation of a histone H2A variant plays an essential part in transcription regulation in various model organisms. A key player in this cascade is the chromatin remodelling complex SWR1, which replaces the canonical histone H2A with its variant H2A.Z. Transcriptional regulation of polycistronic transcription units in the unicellular parasite Trypanosoma brucei has been shown to be highly dependent on acetylation of H2A.Z, which is mediated by the histone-acetyltransferase HAT2. The chromatin remodelling complex which mediates H2A.Z incorporation is not known and an SWR1 orthologue in trypanosomes has not yet been reported. In this study, we identified and characterised an SWR1-like remodeller complex in T. brucei that is responsible for Pol II-dependent transcriptional regulation. Bioinformatic analysis of potential SNF2 DEAD/Box helicases, the key component of SWR1 complexes, identified a 1211 amino acids-long protein that exhibits key structural characteristics of the SWR1 subfamily. Systematic protein-protein interaction analysis revealed the existence of a novel complex exhibiting key features of an SWR1-like chromatin remodeller. RNAi-mediated depletion of the ATPase subunit of this complex resulted in a significant reduction of H2A.Z incorporation at transcription start sites and a subsequent decrease of steady-state mRNA levels. Furthermore, depletion of SWR1 and RNA-polymerase II (Pol II) caused massive chromatin condensation. The potential function of several proteins associated with the SWR1-like complex and with HAT2, the key factor of H2A.Z incorporation, is discussed.
PXD033587	35675764	A TET1-PSPC1-Neat1 molecular axis modulates PRC2 functions in controlling stem cell bivalency. 	TET1 interactome by SILAC IP-MS in mouse ESCs	ESCs, IP-MS, SILAC, TET1	TET1 maintains hypomethylation at bivalent promoters through its catalytic activity in embryonic stem cells (ESCs). However, TET1 catalytic activity-independent function in regulating bivalent genes is not well understood. Using a proteomics approach, we map the TET1 interactome in ESCs and identify PSPC1 as a TET1 partner. Genome-wide location analysis reveals that PSPC1 functionally associates with TET1 and Polycomb repressive complex-2 (PRC2). We establish that PSPC1 and TET1 repress, and the lncRNA Neat1 activates, bivalent gene expression. In ESCs, Neat1 is preferentially bound to PSPC1 alongside its PRC2 association at bivalent promoters. During the ESC-to-epiblast-like stem cell (EpiLC) transition, PSPC1 and TET1 maintain PRC2 chromatin occupancy at bivalent gene promoters, while Neat1 facilitates the activation of certain bivalent genes by promoting PRC2 binding to their mRNAs. Our study demonstrates a TET1-PSPC1-Neat1 molecular axis that modulates PRC2-binding affinity to chromatin and bivalent gene transcripts in controlling stem cell bivalency.
PXD033658	35675771	Lockd promotes myoblast proliferation and muscle regeneration via binding with DHX36 to facilitate 5' UTR rG4 unwinding and Anp32e translation. 	Lockd promotes myoblast proliferation and skeletal muscle regeneration through binding with DHX36 to facilitate unwinding of 5'UTR rG4 and translation of Anp32e mRNA	DHX36, Lockd, RNA G-quadruplexes, muscle regeneration, satellite cells, translational regulation	Adult muscle stem cells, also known as satellite cells (SCs), play pivotal roles in muscle regeneration, and long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) functions in SCs remain largely unknown. Here, we identify a lncRNA, Lockd, which is induced in activated SCs upon acute muscle injury. We demonstrate that Lockd promotes SC proliferation; deletion of Lockd leads to cell-cycle arrest, and in vivo repression of Lockd in mouse muscles hinders regeneration process. Mechanistically, we show that Lockd directly interacts with RNA helicase DHX36 and the 5'end of Lockd possesses the strongest binding with DHX36. Furthermore, we demonstrate that Lockd stabilizes the interaction between DHX36 and EIF3B proteins; synergistically, this complex unwinds the RNA G-quadruplex (rG4) structure formed at Anp32e mRNA 5' UTR and promotes the translation of ANP32E protein, which is required for myoblast proliferation. Altogether, our findings identify a regulatory Lockd/DHX36/Anp32e axis that promotes myoblast proliferation and acute-injury-induced muscle regeneration.
PXD032144	35676258	The structure of EXTL3 helps to explain the different roles of bi-domain exostosins in heparan sulfate synthesis. 	EXTL3Î”N purification from EXT1 CRISPR HEK	EXT1, EXTL3, EXTL3Î”N, HEK	Heparan sulfate is a highly modified O-linked glycan that performs diverse physiological roles in animal tissues. Though quickly modified, it is initially synthesised as a polysaccharide of alternating beta-D-glucuronosyl and N-acetyl-alpha-D-glucosaminyl residues by exostosins. These enzymes generally possess two glycosyltransferase domains (GT47 and GT64)-each thought to add one type of monosaccharide unit to the backbone. Although previous structures of murine exostosin-like 2 (EXTL2) provide insight into the GT64 domain, the rest of the bi-domain architecture is yet to be characterised; hence, how the two domains co-operate is unknown. Here, we report the structure of human exostosin-like 3 (EXTL3) in apo and UDP-bound forms. We explain the ineffectiveness of EXTL3's GT47 domain to transfer beta-D-glucuronosyl units, and we observe that, in general, the bi-domain architecture would preclude a processive mechanism of backbone extension. We therefore propose that heparan sulfate backbone polymerisation occurs by a simple dissociative mechanism.
PXD033397	35676274	Taf2 mediates DNA binding of Taf14. 	Taf2 mediates DNA binding of Taf14	Taf2 mediates DNA binding of Taf14	The assembly and function of the yeast general transcription factor TFIID complex requires specific contacts between its Taf14 and Taf2 subunits, however, the mechanism underlying these contacts remains unclear. Here, we determined the molecular and structural basis by which the YEATS and ET domains of Taf14 bind to the C-terminal tail of Taf2 and identified a unique DNA-binding activity of the linker region connecting the two domains. We show that in the absence of ligands the linker region of Taf14 is occluded by the surrounding domains, and therefore the DNA binding function of Taf14 is autoinhibited. Binding of Taf2 promotes a conformational rearrangement in Taf14, resulting in a release of the linker for the engagement with DNA and the nucleosome. Genetic in vivo data indicate that the association of Taf14 with both Taf2 and DNA is essential for transcriptional regulation. Our findings provide a basis for deciphering the role of individual TFIID subunits in mediating gene transcription.
PXD029459	35676368	Comparative interactome analysis of the PRE DNA-binding factors: purification of the Combgap-, Zeste-, Psq-, and Adf1-associated proteins. 	Comparative analysis of PRE DNA-binding factors interactomes: purification of Combgap, Zeste, Psq and Adf1 associated proteins	DNA-binding factors, Drosophila melanogaster, interactomes	The Polycomb group (PcG) and Trithorax group (TrxG) proteins are key epigenetic regulators controlling the silenced and active states of genes in multicellular organisms, respectively. In Drosophila, PcG/TrxG proteins are recruited to the chromatin via binding to specific DNA sequences termed polycomb response elements (PREs). While precise mechanisms of the PcG/TrxG protein recruitment remain unknown, the important role is suggested to belong to sequence-specific DNA-binding factors. At the same time, it was demonstrated that the PRE DNA-binding proteins are not exclusively localized to PREs but can bind other DNA regulatory elements, including enhancers, promoters, and boundaries. To gain an insight into the PRE DNA-binding protein regulatory network, here, using ChIP-seq and immuno-affinity purification coupled to the high-throughput mass spectrometry, we searched for differences in abundance of the Combgap, Zeste, Psq, and Adf1 PRE DNA-binding proteins. While there were no conspicuous differences in co-localization of these proteins with other functional transcription factors, we show that Combgap and Zeste are more tightly associated with the Polycomb repressive complex 1 (PRC1), while Psq interacts strongly with the TrxG proteins, including the BAP SWI/SNF complex. The Adf1 interactome contained Mediator subunits as the top interactors. In addition, Combgap efficiently interacted with AGO2, NELF, and TFIID. Combgap, Psq, and Adf1 have architectural proteins in their networks. We further investigated the existence of direct interactions between different PRE DNA-binding proteins and demonstrated that Combgap-Adf1, Psq-Dsp1, and Pho-Spps can interact in the yeast two-hybrid assay. Overall, our data suggest that Combgap, Psq, Zeste, and Adf1 are associated with the protein complexes implicated in different regulatory activities and indicate their potential multifunctional role in the regulation of transcription.
PXD030209	35676411	Dynamic interplay between the periplasmic chaperone SurA and the BAM complex in outer membrane protein folding. 	XL-MS data of BAM and SurA binding	BAM, Crosslinking, E coli, SurA	Correct folding of outer membrane proteins (OMPs) into the outer membrane of Gram-negative bacteria depends on delivery of unfolded OMPs to the beta-barrel assembly machinery (BAM). How unfolded substrates are presented to BAM remains elusive, but the major OMP chaperone SurA is proposed to play a key role. Here, we have used hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), crosslinking, in vitro folding and binding assays and computational modelling to show that the core domain of SurA and one of its two PPIase domains are key to the SurA-BAM interaction and are required for maximal catalysis of OMP folding. We reveal that binding causes changes in BAM and SurA conformation and/or dynamics distal to the sites of binding, including at the BamA beta1-beta16 seam. We propose a model for OMP biogenesis in which SurA plays a crucial role in OMP delivery and primes BAM to accept substrates for folding.
PXD033357	35676476	Pregnancy enables antibody protection against intracellular infection. 	Murine IgG (polyclonal) from Listeria Challenged pregnant dams	IgG, IgG2, listeria, murine, polyclonal	Adaptive immune components are thought to exert non-overlapping roles in antimicrobial host defence, with antibodies targeting pathogens in the extracellular environment and T cells eliminating infection inside cells(1,2). Reliance on antibodies for vertically transferred immunity from mothers to babies may explain neonatal susceptibility to intracellular infections(3,4). Here we show that pregnancy-induced post-translational antibody modification enables protection against the prototypical intracellular pathogen Listeria monocytogenes. Infection susceptibility was reversed in neonatal mice born to preconceptually primed mothers possessing L. monocytogenes-specific IgG or after passive transfer of antibodies from primed pregnant, but not virgin, mice. Although maternal B cells were essential for producing IgGs that mediate vertically transferred protection, they were dispensable for antibody acquisition of protective function, which instead required sialic acid acetyl esterase(5) to deacetylate terminal sialic acid residues on IgG variable-region N-linked glycans. Deacetylated L. monocytogenes-specific IgG protected neonates through the sialic acid receptor CD22(6,7), which suppressed IL-10 production by B cells leading to antibody-mediated protection. Consideration of the maternal-fetal dyad as a joined immunological unit reveals protective roles for antibodies against intracellular infection and fine-tuned adaptations to enhance host defence during pregnancy and early life.
PXD031678	35676484	Mechanism of mitoribosomal small subunit biogenesis and preinitiation. 	Mechanism of mitoribosomal small subunit biogenesis and preinitiation	Mitoribosome, SILAC, sucrose gradient, translation initiation	Mitoribosomes are essential for the synthesis and maintenance of bioenergetic proteins. Here we use cryo-electron microscopy to determine a series of the small mitoribosomal subunit (SSU) intermediates in complex with auxiliary factors, revealing a sequential assembly mechanism. The methyltransferase TFB1M binds to partially unfolded rRNA h45 that is promoted by RBFA, while the mRNA channel is blocked. This enables binding of METTL15 that promotes further rRNA maturation and a large conformational change of RBFA. The new conformation allows initiation factor mtIF3 to already occupy the subunit interface during the assembly. Finally, the mitochondria-specific ribosomal protein mS37 (ref. (1)) outcompetes RBFA to complete the assembly with the SSU-mS37-mtIF3 complex(2) that proceeds towards mtIF2 binding and translation initiation. Our results explain how the action of step-specific factors modulate the dynamic assembly of the SSU, and adaptation of a unique protein, mS37, links the assembly to initiation to establish the catalytic human mitoribosome.
PXD019993	35677646	MASTL is enriched in cancerous and pluripotent stem cells and influences OCT1/OCT4 levels. 	Microtubule-associated serine/threonine-protein kinase-like (MASTL) surfaceome proteomics analysis	MASTL, SILAC, breast cancer, cell adhesion, cell contractility, cell migration, surfaceome proteomics	MASTL is a mitotic accelerator with an emerging role in breast cancer progression. However, the mechanisms behind its oncogenicity remain largely unknown. Here, we identify a previously unknown role and eminent expression of MASTL in stem cells. MASTL staining from a large breast cancer patient cohort indicated a significant association with beta3 integrin, an established mediator of breast cancer stemness. MASTL silencing reduced OCT4 levels in human pluripotent stem cells and OCT1 in breast cancer cells. Analysis of the cell-surface proteome indicated a strong link between MASTL and the regulation of TGF-beta receptor II (TGFBR2), a key modulator of TGF-beta signaling. Overexpression of wild-type and kinase-dead MASTL in normal mammary epithelial cells elevated TGFBR2 levels. Conversely, MASTL depletion in breast cancer cells attenuated TGFBR2 levels and downstream signaling through SMAD3 and AKT pathways. Taken together, these results indicate that MASTL supports stemness regulators in pluripotent and cancerous stem cells.
PXD035202	35678669	Protocol for Increasing the Sensitivity of MS-Based Protein Detection in Human Chorionic Villi. 	Proteome profiling of HaCaT keratinocytes	1DE-gel concentration, HaCaT keratinocytes, MCM family, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, SearchGUI, double-strand break repair via break-induced replication pathway, osmotic shock, sodium dodecyl sulfate	An important step in the proteomic analysis of missing proteins is the use of a wide range of tissues, optimal extraction, and the processing of protein material in order to ensure the highest sensitivity in downstream protein detection. This work describes a purification protocol for identifying low-abundance proteins in human chorionic villi using the proposed "1DE-gel concentration" method. This involves the removal of SDS in a short electrophoresis run in a stacking gel without protein separation. Following the in-gel digestion of the obtained holistic single protein band, we used the peptide mixture for further LC-MS/MS analysis. Statistically significant results were derived from six datasets, containing three treatments, each from two tissue sources (elective or missed abortions). The 1DE-gel concentration increased the coverage of the chorionic villus proteome. Our approach allowed the identification of 15 low-abundance proteins, of which some had not been previously detected via the mass spectrometry of trophoblasts. In the post hoc data analysis, we found a dubious or uncertain protein (PSG7) encoded on human chromosome 19 according to neXtProt. A proteomic sample preparation workflow with the 1DE-gel concentration can be used as a prospective tool for uncovering the low-abundance part of the human proteome.
PXD026267	35679794	Yi-Xin-Shu capsule ameliorates cardiac hypertrophy by regulating RB/HDAC1/GATA4 signaling pathway based on proteomic and mass spectrometry image analysis. 	Yi-xin-shu Capsule Ameliorates Cardiac Hypertrophy by Regulating RB/HDAC1/GATA4 Signaling Pathway in Abdominal Aorta Coarctation-Induced Rat Model	GATA binding protein 4, Yi-xin-shu Capsule, cardiac hypertrophy, histone deacetylase-1, retinoblastoma	BACKGROUND: Cardiac hypertrophy (CH) forms the main pathological basis of chronic heart failure (CHF). Mitigating and preventing CH is the key strategy for the treatment of ventricular remodeling in CHF. Yi-Xin-Shu capsule (YXS) has been commonly applied in the clinical treatment of CHF in Asian countries for several decades. However, the underlying mechanism of YXS has not been revealed yet. PURPOSE: To assess the efficiency of YXS in CH and identify its potential therapeutic targets for the managing of CH. METHOD: Ultrasonic cardiogram was used to evaluate the cardiac function of CH rats. Hematein Eosin (HE)-staining, Masson-staining and transmission electron microscope were used to measure the morphological changes, cardiac fibrosis degree and ultrastructure characteristics of cardiomyocytes, respectively. ELISA was used to detect the myocardial injury biomarkers. Then, the potential targets regulated by YXS were screened out via proteomic analysis and mass spectrometry image analysis. Finally, the targets were validated by real-time quantitative (RT-q) PCR, immunofluorescence, immunohistochemistry, and western-blotting methods. RESULTS: YXS improved the cardiac function of CH rats and attenuated the injuries in morphology and subcellular structure of cardiomyocytes. A core protein-protein interaction network was established on differentially expressed proteins (DEP) using proteomics analysis. GATA binding protein 4 (GATA4) was identified as the key target regulated by YXS. The results of mass spectrometry image analysis indicated that the expressions of histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1) and retinoblastoma (RB) could also be regulated by YXS. Further valuative experiments showed that YXS may attenuate CH by regulating the RB/HDAC1/GATA4 signaling pathway. CONCLUSIONS: For the first time, this study discloses the precise mechanism investigation of the efficacy of YXS against CH. These data demonstrate that YXS may protect against CH by regulating the RB/HDAC1/GATA4 signaling pathway.
PXD031249	35679865	Spatial region-resolved proteome map reveals mechanism of COVID-19-associated heart injury. 	Spatial-region-resolved proteomic map reveals mechanism of COVID-19-associated heart injury	COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, heart, microvessels, myocardia	Direct myocardial and vascular injuries due to severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection-driven inflammation is the leading cause of acute cardiac injury associated with coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19). However, in-depth knowledge of the injury characteristics of the heart affected by inflammation is lacking. In this study, using a quantitative spatial proteomics strategy that combines comparative anatomy, laser-capture microdissection, and histological examination, we establish a region-resolved proteome map of the myocardia and microvessels with obvious inflammatory cells from hearts of patients with COVID-19. A series of molecular dysfunctions of myocardia and microvessels is observed in different cardiac regions. The myocardia and microvessels of the left atrial are the most susceptible to virus infection and inflammatory storm, suggesting more attention should be paid to the lesion and treatment of these two parts. These results can guide in improving clinical treatments for cardiovascular diseases associated with COVID-19.
PXD032101	35680928	Extracellular release of two peptidases dominates generation of the trypanosome quorum-sensing signal. 	Extracellular release of two peptidases dominates generation of the quorum sensing signal in Trypanosoma brucei	Trypanosoma brucei, peptidase, quorum sensing, stumpy forms, transmission	Trypanosomes causing African sleeping sickness use quorum-sensing (QS) to generate transmission-competent stumpy forms in mammalian hosts. This density-dependent process is signalled by oligopeptides that stimulate the signal transduction pathway leading to stumpy formation. Here, using mass spectrometry analysis, we identify peptidases released by trypanosomes and, for 12 peptidases, confirm their extracellular delivery. Thereafter, we determine the contribution of each peptidase to QS signal production using systematic inducible overexpression in vivo, and confirm this activity operates through the physiological QS signalling pathway. Gene knockout of the QS-active peptidases identifies two enzymes, oligopeptidase B and metallocarboxypeptidase 1, that significantly reduce QS when ablated individually. Further, combinatorial gene knockout of both peptidases confirms their dominance in the generation of the QS signal, with peptidase release of oligopeptidase B mediated via an unconventional protein secretion pathway. This work identifies how the QS signal driving trypanosome virulence and transmission is generated in mammalian hosts.
PXD031991	35680998	A phylogenetic and proteomic reconstruction of eukaryotic chromatin evolution. 	A phylogenetic and proteomic reconstruction of eukaryotic chromatin evolution	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, chromatin, evolution, histones, proteogenomics	Histones and associated chromatin proteins have essential functions in eukaryotic genome organization and regulation. Despite this fundamental role in eukaryotic cell biology, we lack a phylogenetically comprehensive understanding of chromatin evolution. Here, we combine comparative proteomics and genomics analysis of chromatin in eukaryotes and archaea. Proteomics uncovers the existence of histone post-translational modifications in archaea. However, archaeal histone modifications are scarce, in contrast with the highly conserved and abundant marks we identify across eukaryotes. Phylogenetic analysis reveals that chromatin-associated catalytic functions (for example, methyltransferases) have pre-eukaryotic origins, whereas histone mark readers and chaperones are eukaryotic innovations. We show that further chromatin evolution is characterized by expansion of readers, including capture by transposable elements and viruses. Overall, our study infers detailed evolutionary history of eukaryotic chromatin: from its archaeal roots, through the emergence of nucleosome-based regulation in the eukaryotic ancestor, to the diversification of chromatin regulators and their hijacking by genomic parasites.
PXD032209	35681168	Identification of different proteins binding to Na, K-ATPase alpha1 in LPS-induced ARDS cell model by proteomic analysis. 	Identification of different proteins binding to Na, K-ATPase alpha1 in LPS-induced ARDS cell model by proteomic analysis	A549 cell., ARDS, K-ATPase alpha1, Na, lipopolysaccharide	BACKGROUND: Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is characterized by refractory hypoxemia caused by accumulation of pulmonary fluid, which is related to inflammatory cell infiltration, impaired tight junction of pulmonary epithelium and impaired Na, K-ATPase function, especially Na, K-ATPase alpha1 subunit. Up until now, the pathogenic mechanism at the level of protein during lipopolysaccharide- (LPS-) induced ARDS remains unclear. METHODS: Using an unbiased, discovery and quantitative proteomic approach, we discovered the differentially expressed proteins binding to Na, K-ATPase alpha1 between LPS-A549 cells and Control-A549 cells. These Na, K-ATPase alpha1 interacting proteins were screened by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) technology. Among them, some of the differentially expressed proteins with significant performance were identified and quantified by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD032209. The protein interaction network was constructed by the related Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis. Several differentially expressed proteins were validated by Western blot. RESULTS: Of identified 1598 proteins, 89 were differentially expressed proteins between LPS-A549 cells and Control-A549 cells. Intriguingly, protein-protein interaction network showed that there were 244 significantly enriched co-expression among 60 proteins in the group control-A549. while the group LPS-A549 showed 43 significant enriched interactions among 29 proteins. The related GO and KEGG analysis found evident phenomena of ubiquitination and deubiquitination, as well as the pathways related to autophagy. Among proteins with rich abundance, there were several intriguing ones, including the deubiquitinase (OTUB1), the tight junction protein zonula occludens-1 (ZO-1), the scaffold protein in CUL4B-RING ubiquitin ligase (CRL4B) complexes (CUL4B) and the autophagy-related protein sequestosome-1 (SQSTM1). CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, our proteomic approach revealed targets related to the occurrence and development of ARDS, being the first study to investigate significant differences in Na, K-ATPase alpha1 interacting proteins between LPS-induced ARDS cell model and control-A549 cell. These proteins may help the clinical diagnosis and facilitate the personalized treatment of ARDS.
PXD034246	35681748	Chemoresistant Cancer Cell Lines Are Characterized by Migratory, Amino Acid Metabolism, Protein Catabolism and IFN1 Signalling Perturbations. 	Chemoresistant Cancer Cell Lines are Characterized by Migratory, Amino Acid Metabolism, Protein Catabolism and IFN1 Signalling Perturbations.	cancer cell lines, chemoresistance, metabolomics, ovarian cancer	Chemoresistance remains the major barrier to effective ovarian cancer treatment. The molecular features and associated biological functions of this phenotype remain poorly understood. We developed carboplatin-resistant cell line models using OVCAR5 and CaOV3 cell lines with the aim of identifying chemoresistance-specific molecular features. Chemotaxis and CAM invasion assays revealed enhanced migratory and invasive potential in OVCAR5-resistant, compared to parental cell lines. Mass spectrometry analysis was used to analyse the metabolome and proteome of these cell lines, and was able to separate these populations based on their molecular features. It revealed signalling and metabolic perturbations in the chemoresistant cell lines. A comparison with the proteome of patient-derived primary ovarian cancer cells grown in culture showed a shared dysregulation of cytokine and type 1 interferon signalling, potentially revealing a common molecular feature of chemoresistance. A comprehensive analysis of a larger patient cohort, including advanced in vitro and in vivo models, promises to assist with better understanding the molecular mechanisms of chemoresistance and the associated enhancement of migration and invasion.
PXD032362	35682673	The BCC7 Protein Contributes to the Toxoplasma Basal Pole by Interfacing between the MyoC Motor and the IMC Membrane Network. 	MS-based proteomic characterization of Toxoplasma gondii BCC7 interactome	BCC7, Toxoplasma gondii, affinity purification, basal pole, nanoLC-MS/MS	T. gondii is a eukaryotic parasite that has evolved a stage called tachyzoite which multiplies in host cells by producing two daughter cells internally. These nascent tachyzoites bud off their mother and repeat the division process until the expanding progenies escape to settle and multiply in other host cells. Over these intra- and extra-cellular phases, the tachyzoite maintains an essential apicobasal polarity that emerges through a unique bidirectional budding process of the elongating cells. This process requires the assembly of several molecular complexes that, at the nascent pole, encompass structural and myosin motor elements. To characterize a recently identified basal pole marker named BCC7 with respect to the posterior myosin J and myosin C motors, we used conventional biochemistry as well as advanced proteomic and in silico analysis in conjunction with live and super resolution microscopy of transgenic fluorescent tachyzoites. We document that BCC7 forms a ribbed ring below which myosin C motor entities distribute regularly. In addition, we identified-among 13 BCC7 putative partners-two novel and five known members of the inner membrane complex (IMC) family which ends at the apical side of the ring. Therefore, BCC7 could assist the stabilization of the IMC plaques and contribute to the parasite biomechanical properties.
PXD033987	35682742	An Integrated Multi-Omic Network Analysis Identifies Seizure-Associated Dysregulated Pathways in the GAERS Model of Absence Epilepsy. 	An integrated multi-omic network analysis identifies seizure-associated dysregulated pathways in the GAERS model of absence epilepsy	An integrated multi-omic network analysis identifies sei-zure-associated dysregulated pathways in the GAERS model of absence epilepsy	Absence epilepsy syndromes are part of the genetic generalized epilepsies, the pathogenesis of which remains poorly understood, although a polygenic architecture is presumed. Current focus on single molecule or gene identification to elucidate epileptogenic drivers is unable to fully capture the complex dysfunctional interactions occurring at a genetic/proteomic/metabolomic level. Here, we employ a multi-omic, network-based approach to characterize the molecular signature associated with absence epilepsy-like phenotype seen in a well validated rat model of genetic generalized epilepsy with absence seizures. Electroencephalographic and behavioral data was collected from Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rats from Strasbourg (GAERS, n = 6) and non-epileptic controls (NEC, n = 6), followed by proteomic and metabolomic profiling of the cortical and thalamic tissue of rats from both groups. The general framework of weighted correlation network analysis (WGCNA) was used to identify groups of highly correlated proteins and metabolites, which were then functionally annotated through joint pathway enrichment analysis. In both brain regions a large protein-metabolite module was found to be highly associated with the GAERS strain, absence seizures and associated anxiety and depressive-like phenotype. Quantitative pathway analysis indicated enrichment in oxidative pathways and a downregulation of the lysine degradation pathway in both brain regions. GSTM1 and ALDH2 were identified as central regulatory hubs of the seizure-associated module in the somatosensory cortex and thalamus, respectively. These enzymes are involved in lysine degradation and play important roles in maintaining oxidative balance. We conclude that the dysregulated pathways identified in the seizure-associated module may be involved in the aetiology and maintenance of absence seizure activity. This dysregulated activity could potentially be modulated by targeting one or both central regulatory hubs.
PXD033584	3568281	Efficacy of military antishock trousers in compensatory and decompensatory hemorrhagic hypotension. 	Tissue sampling and homogenization with NIRL enables spatially resolved cell layer specific proteomic analysis of the murine intestine	3D, Colon, Laser-ablstion	The compensatory cardiovascular response to hemorrhage includes a baroreceptor-induced activation of the sympathetic nervous system resulting in an attempt to reestablish MAP through peripheral vasoconstriction. If the hypotension is not reversed this compensatory vasoconstriction will progress to a loss of vascular tone known as vascular decompensation. The primary purpose of the present study was to compare the effectiveness of military antishock trousers (MAST) applied during the compensatory and decompensatory stages of hemorrhagic hypotension. MAST pressures of 30, 50, 70, and 90 mm Hg were applied during control, compensation, and decompensation. The results showed that MAST pressures up to 90 mm Hg were ineffective at raising mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) when applied to normotensive dogs; MAP increased 62% when MAST were applied during compensation as the result of a significant augmentation of cardiac output (stroke volume and heart rate) with no change in TPR; and a modest increase in MAP from 40 to 55 mm Hg occurred when MAST pressure was increased to 70 mm Hg during decompensation, which was accounted for entirely on the basis of an increased total peripheral resistance with no significant change in CO.
PXD031918	35684327	Comparing Efficiency of Lysis Buffer Solutions and Sample Preparation Methods for Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry Analysis of Human Cells and Plasma. 	Comparison of in-solution and SP3 sample processing workflows on HeLa cell samples	HeLa, LC-MS, SP3, in-solution digestion	The use of a proper sample processing methodology for maximum proteome coverage and high-quality quantitative data is an important choice to make before initiating a liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS)-based proteomics study. Popular sample processing workflows for proteomics involve in-solution proteome digestion and single-pot, solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation (SP3). We tested them on both HeLa cells and human plasma samples, using lysis buffers containing SDS, or guanidinium hydrochloride. We also studied the effect of using commercially available depletion mini spin columns before SP3, to increase proteome coverage in human plasma samples. Our results show that the SP3 protocol, using either buffer, achieves the highest number of quantified proteins in both the HeLa cells and plasma samples. Moreover, the use of depletion mini spin columns before SP3 results in a two-fold increase of quantified plasma proteins. With additional fractionation, we quantified nearly 1400 proteins, and examined lower-abundance proteins involved in neurodegenerative pathways and mitochondrial metabolism. Therefore, we recommend the use of the SP3 methodology for biological sample processing, including those after depletion of high-abundance plasma proteins.
PXD033282	35685241	A New Strategy for High-Efficient Tandem Enrichment and Simultaneous Profiling of N-Glycopeptides and Phosphopeptides in Lung Cancer Tissue. 	Tandem Enrichment and Simultaneous Profeling	enrichment, mass spectromettry	N-glycosylation and phosphorylation, two common posttranslational modifications, play important roles in various biological processes and are extensively studied for biomarker and drug target screening. Because of their low abundance, enrichment of N-glycopeptides and phosphopeptides prior to LC-MS/MS analysis is essential. However, simultaneous characterization of these two types of posttranslational modifications in complex biological samples is still challenging, especially for tiny amount of samples obtained in tissue biopsy. Here, we introduced a new strategy for the highly efficient tandem enrichment of N-glycopeptides and phosphopeptides using HILIC and TiO2 microparticles. The N-glycopeptides and phosphosites obtained by tandem enrichment were 21%-377% and 22%-263% higher than those obtained by enriching the two PTM peptides separately, respectively, using 160-20 mug tryptic digested peptides as the starting material. Under the optimized conditions, 2798 N-glycopeptides from 434 N-glycoproteins and 5130 phosphosites from 1986 phosphoproteins were confidently identified from three technical replicates of HeLa cells by mass spectrometry analysis. Application of this tandem enrichment strategy in a lung cancer study led to simultaneous characterization of the two PTM peptides and discovery of hundreds of differentially expressed N-glycosylated and phosphorylated proteins between cancer and normal tissues, demonstrating the high sensitivity of this strategy for investigation of dysregulated PTMs using very limited clinical samples.
PXD033454	35685793	A bioorthogonal chemical reporter for the detection and identification of protein lactylation. 	A Bioorthogonal Chemical Reporter for the Detection and Identification of Protein Lactylation	Chemical Proteomics, Chemical Reporter, Lactylation	l-Lactylation is a recently discovered post-translational modification occurring on histone lysine residues to regulate gene expression. However, the substrate scope of lactylation, especially that in non-histone proteins, remains unknown, largely due to the limitations of current methods for analyzing lactylated proteins. Herein, we report an alkynyl-functionalized bioorthogonal chemical reporter, YnLac, for the detection and identification of protein lactylation in mammalian cells. Our in-gel fluorescence and chemical proteomic analyses show that YnLac is metabolically incorporated into lactylated proteins and directly labels known lactylated lysines of histones. We further apply YnLac to the proteome-wide profiling of lactylation, revealing many novel modification sites in non-histone proteins for the first time. Moreover, we demonstrate that lactylation of a newly identified substrate protein PARP1 regulates its ADP-ribosylation activity. Our study thus provides a powerful chemical tool for characterizing protein lactylation and greatly expands our understanding of substrate proteins and functions of this new modification.
PXD033466	35685794	A proximity labeling method for protein-protein interactions on cell membrane. 	A proximity labeling method for protein-protein interactions on cell membrane	Proximity labeling proteomics, antigen-antibody binding, glycosylation, protein-protein interaction	Antibodies targeting specific antigens are widely utilized in biological research to investigate protein interactions or to quantify target antigens. Here, we introduce antigen-antibody proximity labeling (AAPL), a novel method to map the antigen interaction sites as well as interactors of antibody-targeted proteins. As a proof of concept, AAPL was demonstrated using sodium/potassium transporting ATPase (ATP1A1) and epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (ERBB2)-specific antibodies that were modified with an Fe(iii) catalytic probe. Once bound to their target proteins, Fe(iii)-induced catalytic oxidation occurred in proximity of the antigen's epitope. Oxidative proteomic analysis was then used to determine the degree of oxidation, the site of oxidation within the targeted antigen, and the interacting proteins that were in close proximity to the targeted antigen. An AAPL score was generated for each protein yielding the specificity of the oxidation and proximity of the interacting protein to the target antigen. As a final demonstration of its utility, the AAPL approach was applied to map the interactors of liver-intestine-cadherin (CDH17) in colon cancer cells.
PXD032127	35686122	Proteomic and Metabolomic Signatures Associated With the Immune Response in Healthy Individuals Immunized With an Inactivated SARS-CoV-2 Vaccine. 	Proteomic and metabolomic signatures associated with the immune response in healthy individuals immunized with an inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine	COVID-19, CoronaVac, Immune response., Metabolomics, SARS-CoV-2	CoronaVac (Sinovac), an inactivated vaccine for SARS-CoV-2, has been widely used for immunization. However, analysis of the underlying molecular mechanisms driving CoronaVac-induced immunity is still limited. Here, we applied a systems biology approach to understand the mechanisms behind the adaptive immune response to CoronaVac in a cohort of 50 volunteers immunized with 2 doses of CoronaVac. Vaccination with CoronaVac led to an integrated immune response that included several effector arms of the adaptive immune system including specific IgM/IgG, humoral response and other immune response, as well as the innate immune system as shown by complement activation. Metabolites associated with immunity were also identified implicating the role of metabolites in the humoral response, complement activation and other immune response. Networks associated with the TCA cycle and amino acids metabolic pathways, such as phenylalanine metabolism, phenylalanine, tyrosine and tryptophan biosynthesis, and glycine, serine and threonine metabolism were tightly coupled with immunity. Critically, we constructed a multifactorial response network (MRN) to analyze the underlying interactions and compared the signatures affected by CoronaVac immunization and SARS-CoV-2 infection to further identify immune signatures and related metabolic pathways altered by CoronaVac immunization. These results help us to understand the host response to vaccination of CoronaVac and highlight the utility of a systems biology approach in defining molecular correlates of protection to vaccination.
PXD029059	35687128	Inhibition of histone acetyltransferase GCN5 by a transcription factor FgPacC controls fungal adaption to host-derived iron stress. 	Identification of FgPacC interactor	Fusarium graminearum	Poaceae plants can locally accumulate iron to suppress pathogen infection. It remains unknown how pathogens overcome host-derived iron stress during their successful infections. Here, we report that Fusarium graminearum (Fg), a destructive fungal pathogen of cereal crops, is challenged by host-derived high-iron stress. Fg infection induces host alkalinization, and the pH-dependent transcription factor FgPacC undergoes a proteolytic cleavage into the functional isoform named FgPacC30 under alkaline host environment. Subsequently FgPacC30 binds to a GCCAR(R = A/G)G element at the promoters of the genes involved in iron uptake and inhibits their expression, leading to adaption of Fg to high-iron stress. Mechanistically, FgPacC30 binds to FgGcn5 protein, a catalytic subunit of Spt-Ada-Gcn5 Acetyltransferase (SAGA) complex, leading to deregulation of histone acetylation at H3K18 and H2BK11, and repression of iron uptake genes. Moreover, we identified a protein kinase FgHal4, which is highly induced by extracellular high-iron stress and protects FgPacC30 against 26S proteasome-dependent degradation by promoting FgPacC30 phosphorylation at Ser2. Collectively, this study uncovers a novel inhibitory mechanism of the SAGA complex by a transcription factor that enables a fungal pathogen to adapt to dynamic microenvironments during infection.
PXD023660	35687687	Brain injury environment critically influences the connectivity of transplanted neurons. 	The injury environment critically influences the brain-wide input connectome of transplanted neurons	Cell therapy, Circuit mapping, Inflammation, Injury proteome, Neuronal replacement, Synaptic yield, Transplantation	Cell transplantation is a promising approach for the reconstruction of neuronal circuits after brain damage. Transplanted neurons integrate with remarkable specificity into circuitries of the mouse cerebral cortex affected by neuronal ablation. However, it remains unclear how neurons perform in a local environment undergoing reactive gliosis, inflammation, macrophage infiltration, and scar formation, as in traumatic brain injury (TBI). To elucidate this, we transplanted cells from the embryonic mouse cerebral cortex into TBI-injured, inflamed-only, or intact cortex of adult mice. Brain-wide quantitative monosynaptic rabies virus (RABV) tracing unraveled graft inputs from correct regions across the brain in all conditions, with pronounced quantitative differences: scarce in intact and inflamed brain versus exuberant after TBI. In the latter, the initial overshoot is followed by pruning, with only a few input neurons persisting at 3 months. Proteomic profiling identifies candidate molecules for regulation of the synaptic yield, a pivotal parameter to tailor for functional restoration of neuronal circuits.
PXD023407	35687689	Excessive local host-graft connectivity in aging and amyloid-loaded brain. 	Excessive local host-graft connectivity in aged and amyloid-loaded brain	Alzheimers disease model, aging, mouse brain, synaptic connectivity	Transplantation is a clinically relevant approach for brain repair, but much remains to be understood about influences of the disease environment on transplant connectivity. To explore the effect of amyloid pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and aging, we examined graft connectivity using monosynaptic rabies virus tracing in APP/PS1 mice and in 16- to 18-month-old wild-type (WT) mice. Transplanted neurons differentiated within 4 weeks and integrated well into the host visual cortex, receiving input from the appropriate brain regions for this area. Unexpectedly, we found a prominent several-fold increase in local inputs, in both amyloid-loaded and aged environments. State-of-the-art deep proteome analysis using mass spectrometry highlights complement system activation as a common denominator of environments promoting excessive local input connectivity. These data therefore reveal the key role of the host pathology in shaping the input connectome, calling for caution in extrapolating results from one pathological condition to another.
PXD031146	35688383	MicroID2: A Novel Biotin Ligase Enables Rapid Proximity-Dependent Proteomics. 	MicroID: A Novel Biotin Ligase Enables Rapid Proximity Ligation Proteomics	BioID, MicroID, TurboID, organelle, proximity ligation	Identifying protein-protein and other proximal interactions is central to dissecting signaling and regulatory processes in cells. BioID is a proximity-dependent biotinylation method that uses an "abortive" biotin ligase to detect proximal interactions in cells in a highly reproducible manner. Recent advancements in proximity-dependent biotinylation tools have improved efficiency and timing of labeling, allowing for measurement of interactions on a cellular timescale. However, issues of size, stability, and background labeling of these constructs persist. Here we modified the structure of BioID2, derived from Aquifex aeolicus BirA, to create a smaller, highly active, biotin ligase that we named MicroID2. Truncation of the C terrminus of BioID2 and addition of mutations to alleviate blockage of biotin/ATP binding at the active site of BioID2 resulted in a smaller and highly active construct with lower background labeling. Several additional point mutations improved the function of our modified MicroID2 construct compared with BioID2 and other biotin ligases, including TurboID and miniTurbo. MicroID2 is the smallest biotin ligase reported so far (180 amino acids [AAs] for MicroID2 versus 257 AAs for miniTurbo and 338 AAs for TurboID), yet it demonstrates only slightly less labeling activity than TurboID and outperforms miniTurbo. MicroID2 also had lower background labeling than TurboID. For experiments where precise temporal control of labeling is essential, we in addition developed a MicroID2 mutant, termed lbMicroID2 (low background MicroID2), that has lower labeling efficiency but significantly reduced biotin scavenging compared with BioID2. Finally, we demonstrate utility of MicroID2 in mass spectrometry experiments by localizing MicroID2 constructs to subcellular organelles and measuring proximal interactions.
PXD031636	35688384	In-depth Profiling and Quantification of the Lysine Acetylome in Hepatocellular Carcinoma with a Trapped Ion Mobility Mass Spectrometer. 	In-depth Profiling and Quantification of the lysine acetylome in Hepatocellular Carcinoma with a Trapped Ion Mobility Mass Spectrometer	PASEF, SIRT2, acetylomics, cellular metabolism, hepatocellular carcinoma, non-histone, timsTOF pro.	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the third most common cause of cancer-related death worldwide with limited therapeutic options. Comprehensive investigation of protein posttranslational modifications in HCC is still limited. Lysine acetylation is one of the most common types of posttranslational modification involved in many cellular processes and plays crucial roles in the regulation of cancer. In this study, we analyzed the proteome and K-acetylome in eight pairs of HCC tumors and normal adjacent tissues using a timsTOF Pro instrument. As a result, we identified 9219 K-acetylation sites in 2625 proteins, of which 1003 sites exhibited differential acetylation levels between tumors and normal adjacent tissues. Interestingly, many novel tumor-specific K-acetylation sites were characterized, for example, filamin A (K865), filamin B (K697), and cofilin (K19), suggesting altered activities of these cytoskeleton-modulating molecules, which may contribute to tumor metastasis. In addition, we observed an overall suppression of protein K-acetylation in HCC tumors, especially for enzymes from various metabolic pathways, for example, glycolysis, tricarboxylic acid cycle, and fatty acid metabolism. Moreover, the expression of deacetylase sirtuin 2 (SIRT2) was upregulated in HCC tumors, and its role of deacetylation in HCC cells was further explored by examining the impact of SIRT2 overexpression on the proteome and K-acetylome in Huh7 HCC cells. SIRT2 overexpression reduced K-acetylation of proteins involved in a wide range of cellular processes, including energy metabolism. Furthermore, cellular assays showed that overexpression of SIRT2 in HCC cells inhibited both glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation. Taken together, our findings provide valuable information to better understand the roles of K-acetylation in HCC and to treat this disease by correcting the aberrant acetylation patterns.
PXD014685	35688418	Phospho-proteomics identifies a critical role of ATF2 in pseudorabies virus replication. 	iTRAQ-based phospho-proteomics identifies a critical role of ATF2 in pseudorabies virus replication	ATF2, iTRAQ, phosphorylation, pseudorabies virus	Pseudorabies virus (PRV), an etiological agent of pseudorabies in livestock, has negatively affected the porcine industry all over the world. Epithelial cells are reported as the first site of PRV infection. However, the role of host proteins and its related signaling pathways in PRV replication is largely unclear. In this study, we performed a quantitative phosphoproteomics screening on PRV-infected porcine kidney (PK-15) epithelial cells. Totally 5723 phosphopeptides, corresponding to 2180 proteins, were obtained, and the phosphorylated states of 810 proteins were significantly different in PRV-infected cells compared with mock-infected cells (P < 0.05). GO and KEGG analysis revealed that these differentially expressed phosphorylated proteins were predominantly related to RNA transport and MAPK signaling pathways. Further functional studies of NF-kappaB, transcription activator factor-2 (ATF2), MAX and SOS genes in MAPK signaling pathway were analyzed using RNA interference (RNAi) knockdown. It showed that only ATF2-knockdown reduces both PRV titer and viral genome copy number. JNK pathway inhibition and CRISPR/Cas9 gene knockout showed that ATF2 was required for the effective replication of PRV, especially during the biogenesis of viral genome DNA. Subsequently, by overexpression of the ATF2 gene and point mutation of the amino acid positions 69/71 of ATF2, it was further demonstrated that the phosphorylation of ATF2 promoted PRV replication. These findings suggest that ATF2 may provide potential therapeutic target for inhibiting PRV infection.
PXD031664	35688487	LncRNA RUS shapes the gene expression program towards neurogenesis. 	LncRNA RUS shapes the gene expression program towards neurogenesis	RNA protein interaction	The evolution of brain complexity correlates with an increased expression of long, noncoding (lnc) RNAs in neural tissues. Although prominent examples illustrate the potential of lncRNAs to scaffold and target epigenetic regulators to chromatin loci, only few cases have been described to function during brain development. We present a first functional characterization of the lncRNA LINC01322, which we term RUS for "RNA upstream of Slitrk3." The RUS gene is well conserved in mammals by sequence and synteny next to the neurodevelopmental gene Slitrk3. RUS is exclusively expressed in neural cells and its expression increases during neuronal differentiation of mouse embryonic cortical neural stem cells. Depletion of RUS locks neuronal precursors in an intermediate state towards neuronal differentiation resulting in arrested cell cycle and increased apoptosis. RUS associates with chromatin in the vicinity of genes involved in neurogenesis, most of which change their expression upon RUS depletion. The identification of a range of epigenetic regulators as specific RUS interactors suggests that the lncRNA may mediate gene activation and repression in a highly context-dependent manner.
PXD031932	35688821	Excess ribosomal protein production unbalances translation in a model of Fragile X Syndrome. 	Unbalanced protein expression contributes to pathology in Fragile X Syndrome	FMR1, Fragile X, SWATH, brain, hippocampus, mGluR5, proteasome, ribosome, synapse	Dysregulated protein synthesis is a core pathogenic mechanism in Fragile X Syndrome (FX). The mGluR Theory of FX predicts that pathological synaptic changes arise from the excessive translation of mRNAs downstream of mGlu1/5 activation. Here, we use a combination of CA1 pyramidal neuron-specific TRAP-seq and proteomics to identify the overtranslating mRNAs supporting exaggerated mGlu1/5 -induced long-term synaptic depression (mGluR-LTD) in the FX mouse model (Fmr1(-/y)). Our results identify a significant increase in the translation of ribosomal proteins (RPs) upon mGlu1/5 stimulation that coincides with a reduced translation of long mRNAs encoding synaptic proteins. These changes are mimicked and occluded in Fmr1(-/y) neurons. Inhibiting RP translation significantly impairs mGluR-LTD and prevents the length-dependent shift in the translating population. Together, these results suggest that pathological changes in FX result from a length-dependent alteration in the translating population that is supported by excessive RP translation.
PXD023307	35689013	Identification and preliminary characterization of Plasmodium falciparum proteins secreted upon gamete formation. 	P.Falciparum gametocyte egress secretome	gametocyte malaria plasmodium falciparum egress secretome	Malaria long-term elimination depends on parasite transmission control. Plasmodium sexual stage maturation in the mosquito, including egress from the host erythrocyte, is one of the prime targets for transmission-blocking interventions. This work aims to identify candidate molecules potentially involved in gamete emergence from the host erythrocyte, as novel transmission blocking targets. We analyzed by quantitative mass spectrometry the proteins released/secreted by purified Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes upon induction of gametogenesis. The proteome obtained showed a good overlap (74%) with the one previously characterized in similar conditions from gametocytes of the rodent malaria parasite P. berghei. Four candidates were selected based on comparative analysis of their abundance values in released vs total gametocyte proteome. We also characterized the P. falciparum orthologue of the microgamete surface protein (MiGS), a marker of male gametocyte secretory vesicles in murine models of malaria. The findings of this study reveal that all the selected candidate proteins are expressed in both genders and localize to vesicle-like structures that respond to gametogenesis stimuli. This result, together with the fact that the selected proteins are released during gamete emergence in both Plasmodium species, makes them interesting candidates for future functional studies to investigate their potential role in the gametogenesis process.
PXD032213	35689293	Tissue catabolism and donor-specific dexamethasone response in a human osteochondral model of post-traumatic osteoarthritis. 	Tissue Catabolism and Donor-Specific Dexamethasone Response in a Human Osteochondral Model of Post-Traumatic Osteoarthritis	PTOA model, dexamethasone, explant culture, osteochondral	BACKGROUND: Post-traumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA) does not currently have clinical prognostic biomarkers or disease-modifying drugs, though promising candidates such as dexamethasone (Dex) exist. Many challenges in studying and treating this disease stem from tissue interactions that complicate understanding of drug effects. We present an ex vivo human osteochondral model of PTOA to investigate disease effects on cartilage and bone homeostasis and discover biomarkers for disease progression and drug efficacy. METHODS: Human osteochondral explants were harvested from normal (Collins grade 0-1) ankle talocrural joints of human donors (2 female, 5 male, ages 23-70). After pre-equilibration, osteochondral explants were treated with a single-impact mechanical injury and TNF-alpha, IL-6, and sIL-6R +/- 100 nM Dex for 21 days and media collected every 2-3 days. Chondrocyte viability, tissue DNA content, and glycosaminoglycan (sGAG) percent loss to the media were assayed and compared to untreated controls using a linear mixed effects model. Mass spectrometry analysis was performed for both cartilage tissue and pooled culture medium, and the statistical significance of protein abundance changes was determined with the R package limma and empirical Bayes statistics. Partial least squares regression analyses of sGAG loss and Dex attenuation of sGAG loss against proteomic data were performed. RESULTS: Injury and cytokine treatment caused an increase in the release of matrix components, proteases, pro-inflammatory factors, and intracellular proteins, while tissue lost intracellular metabolic proteins, which was mitigated with the addition of Dex. Dex maintained chondrocyte viability and reduced sGAG loss caused by injury and cytokine treatment by 2/3 overall, with donor-specific differences in the sGAG attenuation effect. Biomarkers of bone metabolism had mixed effects, and collagen II synthesis was suppressed with both disease and Dex treatment by 2- to 5-fold. Semitryptic peptides associated with increased sGAG loss were identified. Pro-inflammatory humoral proteins and apolipoproteins were associated with lower Dex responses. CONCLUSIONS: Catabolic effects on cartilage tissue caused by injury and cytokine treatment were reduced with the addition of Dex in this osteochondral PTOA model. This study presents potential peptide biomarkers of early PTOA progression and Dex efficacy that can help identify and treat patients at risk of PTOA.
PXD031847	35689436	Proteome profiling of enzalutamide-resistant cell lines and serum analysis identified ALCAM as marker of resistance in castration-resistant prostate cancer. 	Proteome profiling of enzalutamide-resistant cell lines and serum analysis identified ALCAM as marker of resistance in castration-resistant prostate cancer	enzalutamide, prostate cancer, secondary resistance	Enzalutamide (ENZA) is a frequently used therapy in metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Baseline or acquired resistance to ENZA have been observed, but the molecular mechanisms of resistance are poorly understood. We aimed to identify proteins involved in ENZA resistance and to find therapy-predictive serum markers. We performed comparative proteome analyses on ENZA-sensitive parental (LAPC4, DuCaP) and -resistant prostate cancer cell lines (LAPC4-ENZA, DuCaP-ENZA) using liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The top four most promising candidate markers were selected using bioinformatic approaches. Serum concentrations of selected markers (ALCAM, AGR2, NDRG1, IDH1) were measured in pretreatment samples of 72 ENZA-treated mCRPC patients using ELISA. In addition, ALCAM serum levels were measured in 101 Abiraterone (ABI) and 100 Docetaxel (DOC)-treated mCRPC patients' baseline samples. Results were correlated with clinical and follow-up data. The functional role of ALCAM in ENZA resistance was assessed in vitro using siRNA. Our proteome analyses revealed 731 significantly differentially abundant proteins between ENZA-sensitive and -resistant cells and our filtering methods identified four biomarker candidates. Serum analyses of these proteins revealed only ALCAM to be associated with poor patient survival. Furthermore, higher baseline ALCAM levels were associated with poor survival in ABI- but not in DOC-treated patients. In LAPC4-ENZA resistant cells, ALCAM silencing by siRNA knockdown resulted in significantly enhanced ENZA sensitivity. Our analyses revealed that ALCAM serum levels may help to identify ENZA- and ABI-resistant patients and may thereby help to optimize future clinical decision-making. Our functional analyses suggest the possible involvement of ALCAM in ENZA resistance.
PXD026400	35689625	Conserved secreted effectors contribute to endophytic growth and multihost plant compatibility in a vascular wilt fungus. 	Conserved core effectors determine multi-host plant compatibility in a vascular wilt fungus	Apoplastic fluid, Fusarium oxysporum	Fungal interactions with plant roots, either beneficial or detrimental, have a crucial impact on agriculture and ecosystems. The cosmopolitan plant pathogen Fusarium oxysporum (Fo) provokes vascular wilts in more than a hundred different crops. Isolates of this fungus exhibit host-specific pathogenicity, which is conferred by lineage-specific Secreted In Xylem (SIX) effectors encoded on accessory genomic regions. However, such isolates also can colonize the roots of other plants asymptomatically as endophytes or even protect them against pathogenic strains. The molecular determinants of endophytic multihost compatibility are largely unknown. Here, we characterized a set of Fo candidate effectors from tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) root apoplastic fluid; these early root colonization (ERC) effectors are secreted during early biotrophic growth on main and alternative plant hosts. In contrast to SIX effectors, ERCs have homologs across the entire Fo species complex as well as in other plant-interacting fungi, suggesting a conserved role in fungus-plant associations. Targeted deletion of ERC genes in a pathogenic Fo isolate resulted in reduced virulence and rapid activation of plant immune responses, while ERC deletion in a nonpathogenic isolate led to impaired root colonization and biocontrol ability. Strikingly, some ERCs contribute to Fo infection on the nonvascular land plant Marchantia polymorpha, revealing an evolutionarily conserved mechanism for multihost colonization by root infecting fungi.
PXD031718	35689797	Proteomic alterations in extracellular vesicles induced by oncogenic PIK3CA mutations. 	Global proteomic alterations in extracellular vesicles induced by oncogenic PIK3CA mutations	Extracellular vesicles, MCF10A cells, PIK3CA	PIK3CA is one of the most frequently mutated genes in human cancers, with the two most prevalent activating mutations being E545K and H1047R. Although the altered intracellular signaling pathways in these cells have been described, the effect of these mutations on their extracellular vesicles (EVs) has not yet been reported. To study altered cellular physiology and intercellular communication through proteomic analysis of EVs, MCF10A cells and their isogenic mutant versions (PIK3CA E545K and H1047R) were cultured and their EVs enriched by differential ultracentrifugation. Proteins were extracted, digested with trypsin and the peptides labeled with tandem mass tag (TMT) reagents and analyzed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Four thousand six hundred and fifty-five peptides were identified from 579 proteins of which 522 proteins have been previously described in EVs. Relative quantitation revealed altered levels of EV proteins including several cell adhesion molecules. Mesothelin, E-cadherin, and epithelial cell adhesion molecule were elevated in both mutant cell-derived EVs. Markers of tumor invasion and progression like galectin-3 and transforming growth factor beta induced protein were increased in both mutants. Overall, activating mutations in PIK3CA result in altered EV composition with characteristic changes associated with these hotspot mutations.
PXD030313	35689863	Stem cells from human exfoliated deciduous teeth relieves Alzheimer's disease symptoms in SAMP8 mice by up-regulating the PPARgamma pathway. 	Stem cells from human exfoliated deciduous teeth relieves neurodegenerative disease in aging mice	SAMP8, SHED, neurodegenerativ disease	The pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is complex and heterogeneous, and there are currently no drugs that can stop its progression. The failure of traditional chemical small-molecule drug development showed the weakness of single target and made researchers look to cell therapy with multiple regulatory effects. Stem cells from human exfoliated deciduous teeth (SHED) are a kind of neural crest-derived mesenchymal stem cells which have broad prospects in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we demonstrated the therapeutic effects of SHED in AD mice, including behavioral improvement, neuronal protection, and alleviation of neuroinflammation. Tracking experiments on SHED showed that some of the transplanted cells could enter the brain. To elucidate the role played by the majority of cells transplanted into veins, blood proteomic assays were performed. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD030313. Among the altered proteins, the PPAR pathway related to energy metabolism was considered to be an important signaling pathway involved in regulation through gene ontology analysis and pathway analysis. Western blot showed that the transplantation of SHED improved the glucose metabolism in AD mice by increasing the PPARgamma signaling pathway. These results suggested that SHED have a potential in relieving AD pathological symptoms and improving behavioral cognition. The therapeutic mechanism of SHED is related to up-regulating PPARgamma signaling pathway and reducing neuronal damage.
PXD030513	35690344	Effects of age on subcutaneous adipose tissue proteins in Chinese indigenous Ningxiang pig by TMT-labeled quantitative proteomics. 	TMT-labeled quantitative proteomic reveals the effect of age on subcutaneous fat proteome of Chinese indigenous Ningxiang pig	TMT, pig, subcutaneous fat	Adipose tissue not only affects meat quality and animal productivity, but also participates in inflammation and immunity. Ningxiang pig is famous for their excellent meat quality, disease resistance and tolerance of roughage. It is not yet well known how proteins in adipose tissue is dynamically regulated during the growth of Ningxiang pig. This report studies the proteomic changes in subcutaneous adipose tissue in Ningxiang pigs to gain a better understanding of the molecular mechanism of fat development during the growth period. By TMT-labeled quantitative proteomic analysis of subcutaneous adipose tissue of 9 purebred Ningxiang pigs of different ages, we identified 2533 unique proteins and 716 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs), of which more than half of the DAPs were concentrated in the 90d-210d period. Retrograde endocannabinoid signaling was only significantly enriched in DAPs of N90d vs N30d, Alcoholism and Graft-versus-host disease were only significantly enriched in DAPs of N210d vs N90d. Proteins related to dilated cardiomyopathy was found to be an important pathway in fat development and lipid metabolism. A variety of novel DAPs involved in maintaining mitochondrial function and cell viability, such as NDUFS6, SDHB, COX5A, ATP5D and TNNT1, which play a role in controlling the prediction networks, may indirectly regulate the development and functional maintenance of adipocytes. SIGNIFICANCE: These age-dependent DAPs discovered in this study may help expand the understanding of the molecular mechanisms of the development, function maintenance and transformation of adipose tissue in Ningxiang pig for developing new strategies for improving meat quality and pig breeding in the future.
PXD027166	35690672	ITRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis reveals that VPS35 promotes the expression of MCM2-7 genes in HeLa cells. 	iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic analysis of nuclear proteome in VPS35-depleted HeLa cells	HeLa cells, VPS35, iTRAQ, nuclear proteome	Vacuolar protein sorting 35 (VPS35) is a major component of the retromer complex that regulates endosomal trafficking in eukaryotic cells. Recent studies have shown that VPS35 promotes tumor cell proliferation and affects the nuclear accumulation of its interacting partner. In this study, isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based mass spectrometry were used to measure the changes in nuclear protein abundance in VPS35-depleted HeLa cells. A total of 47 differentially expressed proteins were identified, including 27 downregulated and 20 upregulated proteins. Gene ontology (GO) analysis showed that the downregulated proteins included several minichromosome maintenance (MCM) proteins described as cell proliferation markers, and these proteins were present in the MCM2-7 complex, which is essential for DNA replication. Moreover, we validated that loss of VPS35 reduced the mRNA and protein expression of MCM2-7 genes. Notably, re-expression of VPS35 in VPS35 knockout HeLa cells rescued the expression of these genes. Functionally, we showed that VPS35 contributes to cell proliferation and maintenance of genomic stability of HeLa cells. Therefore, these findings reveal that VPS35 is involved in the regulation of MCM2-7 gene expression and establish a link between VPS35 and cell proliferation.
PXD033101	35692536	Putative Biomarkers in Tears for Diabetic Retinopathy Diagnosis. 	Putative tear fluid biomarkers of diabetic retinopathy	Tear fluid, Type 2 diabetes, nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy, proliferative diabetic retinopathy	Purpose: Tear fluid biomarkers may offer a non-invasive strategy for detecting diabetic patients with increased risk of developing diabetic retinopathy (DR) or increased disease progression, thus helping both improving diagnostic accuracy and understanding the pathophysiology of the disease. Here, we assessed the tear fluid of nondiabetic individuals, diabetic patients with no DR, and diabetic patients with nonproliferative DR (NPDR) or with proliferative DR (PDR) to find putative biomarkers for the diagnosis and staging of DR. Methods: Tear fluid samples were collected using Schirmer test strips from a cohort with 12 controls and 54 Type 2 Diabetes (T2D) patients, and then analyzed using mass spectrometry (MS)-based shotgun proteomics and bead-based multiplex assay. Tear fluid-derived small extracellular vesicles (EVs) were analyzed by transmission electron microscopy, Western Blotting, and nano tracking. Results: Proteomics analysis revealed that among the 682 reliably quantified proteins in tear fluid, 42 and 26 were differentially expressed in NPDR and PDR, respectively, comparing to the control group. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD033101. By multicomparison analyses, we also found significant changes in 32 proteins. Gene ontology (GO) annotations showed that most of these proteins are associated with oxidative stress and small EVs. Indeed, we also found that tear fluid is particularly enriched in small EVs. T2D patients with NPDR have higher IL-2/-5/-18, TNF, MMP-2/-3/-9 concentrations than the controls. In the PDR group, IL-5/-18 and MMP-3/-9 concentrations were significantly higher, whereas IL-13 was lower, compared to the controls. Conclusions: Overall, the results show alterations in tear fluid proteins profile in diabetic patients with retinopathy. Promising candidate biomarkers identified need to be validated in a large sample cohort.
PXD033707	35693169	A Conserved Long Intergenic Non-coding RNA Containing snoRNA Sequences, lncCOBRA1, Affects Arabidopsis Germination and Development. 	A conserved long intergenic non-coding RNA containing snoRNA sequences, lncCOBRA1,  affects Arabidopsis germination and development	ChIRP, Development, RBP, lincRNA, snoRNA	Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are an increasingly studied group of non-protein coding transcripts with a wide variety of molecular functions gaining attention for their roles in numerous biological processes. Nearly 6,000 lncRNAs have been identified in Arabidopsis thaliana but many have yet to be studied. Here, we examine a class of previously uncharacterized lncRNAs termed CONSERVED IN BRASSICA RAPA (lncCOBRA) transcripts that were previously identified for their high level of sequence conservation in the related crop species Brassica rapa, their nuclear-localization and protein-bound nature. In particular, we focus on lncCOBRA1 and demonstrate that its abundance is highly tissue and developmental specific, with particularly high levels early in germination. lncCOBRA1 contains two snoRNAs domains within it, making it the first sno-lincRNA example in a non-mammalian system. However, we find that it is processed differently than its mammalian counterparts. We further show that plants lacking lncCOBRA1 display patterns of delayed germination and are overall smaller than wild-type plants. Lastly, we identify the proteins that interact with lncCOBRA1 and propose a novel mechanism of lincRNA action in which it may act as a scaffold with the RACK1A protein to regulate germination and development, possibly through a role in ribosome biogenesis.
PXD031733	35694290	Thermophilic Geobacillus WSUCF1 Secretome for Saccharification of Ammonia Fiber Expansion and Extractive Ammonia Pretreated Corn Stover. 	Thermophilic Geobacillus WSUCF1 secretome for saccharification of AFEX and EA pretreated corn stover	Geobacillus, ThermoFisher LTQ-FT Ultra Mass Spectrometer	A thermophilic Geobacillus bacterial strain, WSUCF1 contains different carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) capable of hydrolyzing hemicellulose in lignocellulosic biomass. We used proteomic, genomic, and bioinformatic tools, and genomic data to analyze the relative abundance of cellulolytic, hemicellulolytic, and lignin modifying enzymes present in the secretomes. Results showed that CAZyme profiles of secretomes varied based on the substrate type and complexity, composition, and pretreatment conditions. The enzyme activity of secretomes also changed depending on the substrate used. The secretomes were used in combination with commercial and purified enzymes to carry out saccharification of ammonia fiber expansion (AFEX)-pretreated corn stover and extractive ammonia (EA)-pretreated corn stover. When WSUCF1 bacterial secretome produced at different conditions was combined with a small percentage of commercial enzymes, we observed efficient saccharification of EA-CS, and the results were comparable to using a commercial enzyme cocktail (87% glucan and 70% xylan conversion). It also opens the possibility of producing CAZymes in a biorefinery using inexpensive substrates, such as AFEX-pretreated corn stover and Avicel, and eliminates expensive enzyme processing steps that are used in enzyme manufacturing. Implementing in-house enzyme production is expected to significantly reduce the cost of enzymes and biofuel processing cost.
PXD030370	35694507	Unique Posttranslational Modification Sites of Acetylation, Citrullination, Glutarylation, and Phosphorylation Are Found to Be Specific to the Proteins Partitioned in the Triton X-114 Fractions of Leptospira. 	Dissecting post-translational modifications in Leptospira proteome to elucidate novel insights into pathogen-host interaction using bioinformatics approach	Leptospira, diagnosis, drug target, protein modification, proteome discoverer	Posttranslational modifications (PTMs) are decisive factors in the structure, function, and localization of proteins in prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms. However, prokaryotic organisms lack subcellular organelles, and protein localization based on subcellular locations like cytoplasm, inner membrane, periplasm, and outer membrane can be accounted for functional characterization. We have identified 131 acetylated, 1182 citrullinated, 72 glutarylated, 5 palmitoylated, and 139 phosphorylated proteins from Triton X-114 fractionated proteins of Leptospira, the pathogen of re-emerging zoonotic disease leptospirosis. In total, 74.7% of proteins were found exclusively in different Triton X-114 fractions. Additionally, 21.9% of proteins in multiple fractions had one or more PTM specific to different Triton X-114 fractions. Altogether, 96.6% of proteins showed exclusiveness to different Triton X-114 fractions either due to the presence of the entire protein or with a specific PTM type or position. Further, the PTM distribution within Triton X-114 fractions showed higher acetylation in aqueous, glutarylation in detergent, phosphorylation in pellet, and citrullination in wash fractions representing cytoplasmic, outer membrane, inner membrane, and extracellular locations, respectively. Identification of PTMs in proteins with respect to the subcellular localization will help to characterize candidate proteins before developing novel drugs and vaccines rationally to combat leptospirosis.
PXD029361	35694846	TWIST1 methylation by SETD6 selectively antagonizes LINC-PINT expression in glioma. 	TWIST1 methylation by SETD6 selectively antagonizes LINC-PINT expression in Glioblastoma multiforme	Glioblastoma, Methylation, SETD6, methyltransferase	Gliomas are one of the most common and lethal brain tumors among adults. One process that contributes to glioma progression and recurrence is the epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT). EMT is regulated by a set of defined transcription factors which tightly regulate this process, among them is the basic helix-loop-helix family member, TWIST1. Here we show that TWIST1 is methylated on lysine-33 at chromatin by SETD6, a methyltransferase with expression levels correlating with poor survival in glioma patients. RNA-seq analysis in U251 glioma cells suggested that both SETD6 and TWIST1 regulate cell adhesion and migration processes. We further show that TWIST1 methylation attenuates the expression of the long-non-coding RNA, LINC-PINT, thereby promoting EMT in glioma. Mechanistically, TWIST1 methylation represses the transcription of LINC-PINT by increasing the occupancy of EZH2 and the catalysis of the repressive H3K27me3 mark at the LINC-PINT locus. Under un-methylated conditions, TWIST1 dissociates from the LINC-PINT locus, allowing the expression of LINC-PINT which leads to increased cell adhesion and decreased cell migration. Together, our findings unravel a new mechanistic dimension for selective expression of LINC-PINT mediated by TWIST1 methylation.
PXD023134	35696338	Endogenous Retroviral Elements Generate Pathologic Neutrophils in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension. 	Human Neutrophils in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension by LC-MSMS	Neutrophils, Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension	Rationale: The role of neutrophils and their extracellular vesicles (EVs) in the pathogenesis of pulmonary arterial hypertension is unclear. Objectives: To relate functional abnormalities in pulmonary arterial hypertension neutrophils and their EVs to mechanisms uncovered by proteomic and transcriptomic profiling. Methods: Production of elastase, release of extracellular traps, adhesion, and migration were assessed in neutrophils from patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension and control subjects. Proteomic analyses were applied to explain functional perturbations, and transcriptomic data were used to find underlying mechanisms. CD66b-specific neutrophil EVs were isolated from plasma of patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, and we determined whether they produce pulmonary hypertension in mice. Measurements and Main Results: Neutrophils from patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension produce and release increased neutrophil elastase, associated with enhanced extracellular traps. They exhibit reduced migration and increased adhesion attributed to elevated beta1-integrin and vinculin identified by proteomic analysis and previously linked to an antiviral response. This was substantiated by a transcriptomic IFN signature that we related to an increase in human endogenous retrovirus K envelope protein. Transfection of human endogenous retrovirus K envelope in a neutrophil cell line (HL-60) increases neutrophil elastase and IFN genes, whereas vinculin is increased by human endogenous retrovirus K deoxyuridine triphosphate diphosphatase that is elevated in patient plasma. Neutrophil EVs from patient plasma contain increased neutrophil elastase and human endogenous retrovirus K envelope and induce pulmonary hypertension in mice, mitigated by elafin, an elastase inhibitor. Conclusions: Elevated human endogenous retroviral elements and elastase link a neutrophil innate immune response to pulmonary arterial hypertension.
PXD016257	35697730	Deconvoluting signals downstream of growth and immune receptor kinases by phosphocodes of the BSU1 family phosphatases. 	Targeted quantification of flg22-responsive BSU1 phosphorylation sites	BSU1 phosphatase, Parallel Reaction Monitoring, Targeted quantification, flagellin, phosphorylation	Hundreds of leucine-rich repeat receptor kinases (LRR-RKs) have evolved to control diverse processes of growth, development and immunity in plants, but the mechanisms that link LRR-RKs to distinct cellular responses are not understood. Here we show that two LRR-RKs, the brassinosteroid hormone receptor BRASSINOSTEROID INSENSITIVE 1 (BRI1) and the flagellin receptor FLAGELLIN SENSING 2 (FLS2), regulate downstream glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) and mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinases, respectively, through phosphocoding of the BRI1-SUPPRESSOR1 (BSU1) phosphatase. BSU1 was previously identified as a component that inactivates GSK3s in the BRI1 pathway. We surprisingly found that the loss of the BSU1 family phosphatases activates effector-triggered immunity and impairs flagellin-triggered MAP kinase activation and immunity. The flagellin-activated BOTRYTIS-INDUCED KINASE 1 (BIK1) phosphorylates BSU1 at serine 251. Mutation of serine 251 reduces BSU1's ability to mediate flagellin-induced MAP kinase activation and immunity, but not its abilities to suppress effector-triggered immunity and interact with GSK3, which is enhanced through the phosphorylation of BSU1 at serine 764 upon brassinosteroid signalling. These results demonstrate that BSU1 plays an essential role in immunity and transduces brassinosteroid-BRI1 and flagellin-FLS2 signals using different phosphorylation sites. Our study illustrates that phosphocoding in shared downstream components provides signalling specificities for diverse plant receptor kinases.
PXD029328	35697844	Proteomic analysis of adipose tissue revealing differentially abundant proteins in highly efficient mid-lactating dairy cows. 	Proteomic analysis of adipose tissue revealing differentially abundant proteins in highly efficient mid-lactating cows	Bovine milk, cows, lactating	The improvement of nutrient utilization efficiency in dairy cows represents an important task in view of the current rising demand for animal products and sustainable resource usage. In this perspective, the identification of appropriate markers to identify the most efficient animals for dairy production becomes a crucial factor. Residual feed intake (RFI), which represents the difference between predicted and actual intake, is used to define the efficiency of cows. In this study, subcutaneous adipose tissue (AT) was collected from five high efficient (HEF) and five low efficient (LEF) mid-lactation Holstein dairy cows, that represented subgroups of the 20% lowest RFI values (HEF) and highest 20% RFI values (LEF), out of a cohort of 155 cows that were examined for feed efficiency at the individual dairy barn at Volcani Institute, Israel. Adipose samples were examined for proteomic analysis by nano-LC/MS-MS and gene expression by RT-PCR. A total of 101 differential proteins (P <= 0.05 and fold change +/- 1.5) and two protein networks related to feed efficiency were found between HEF and LEF cows. Among the enriched top canonical pathways, FAT10 signaling, EIF2 signaling, Sirtuin signaling, Acute phase response signaling, Protein ubiquitination and mTOR signaling pathways were related to feed efficiency in AT. Furthermore, abundance of transferrin (TF; FC = 78.35, P = 0.02) enriched pathways, including mTOR signaling, LXR/RXR and FXR/RXR activation was found in AT of HEF cows. Relative mRNA expression of RBM39, which is involved in energy metabolism, was decreased in AT of HEF versus LEF. The relationship found between the AT proteins and/or metabolic pathways and the feed efficiency demonstrates that AT may reflect metabolic adaptations to high efficiency, and suggests that these proteins together with their metabolic mechanisms are suitable candidates as biomarkers to identify efficient cows for dairy production.
PXD028075	35698057	Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of Cucurbita ficifolia Bouche (Cucurbitaceae) response to Fusarium oxysporum f.sp. cucumerium. 	The response mechanism of  Cucurbita ficifolia under  the FoC stress and the Identification of NBS type disease -resistance genes	Cucurbita ficifolia Bouché, Defense response, Fusarium oxysporum f.sp.cucumerium, RNA-sequencing, iTRAQ	BACKGROUND: Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cucumerinum (FOC) is the causal agent of cucumber Fusarium wilt, which can cause extensive damages and productivity losses. Cucurbita ficifolia Bouche (Cucurbitaceae) is usually used as rootstock for cucumber because of its excellent resistance to Fusarium wilt. Our previous study found that C.ficifolia has high FOC resistance, the underlying mechanism of which is unclear. RESULTS: Transcriptome and proteome profiling was performed on the basis of RNA-Seq and isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation technology to explore the molecular mechanisms of the response of Cucurbita ficifolia Bouche to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. cucumerium infection. Comparative analyses revealed that 1850 genes and 356 protein species were differentially regulated at 2d and 4d after FOC inoculation. However, correlation analysis revealed that only 11 and 39 genes were differentially regulated at both the transcriptome and proteome levels after FOC inoculation at 2d and 4d, respectively. After FOC inoculation, plant hormones signal transduction, transcription factors were stimulated, whereas wax biosynthesis and photosynthesis were suppressed. Increased synthesis of oxidative-redox proteins is involved in resistance to FOC. CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to reveal the response of C. ficifolia leaf to FOC infection at the transcriptome and proteome levels, and to show that FOC infection activates plant hormone signaling and transcription factors while suppressing wax biosynthesis and photosynthesis. The accumulation of oxidative-redox proteins also plays an important role in the resistance of C. ficifolia to FOC. Results provide new information regarding the processes of C. ficifolia leaf resistance to FOC and will contribute to the breeding of cucumber rootstock with FOC resistance.
PXD033054	35699440	Stimulating Effect of Trichococcus flocculiformis on a Coculture of Syntrophomonas wolfei and Methanospirillum hungatei. 	Effect of Trichococcus flocculiformis on a Co-culture of Syntrophomonas wolfei and Methanospirillum hungatei	Syntrophomonas, anaerobic digestion, co-cultures, methane, methanogens	Syntrophic anaerobic consortia comprised of fatty acid-degrading bacteria and hydrogen/formate-scavenging methanogenic archaea are of central importance for balanced and resilient natural and manufactured ecosystems: anoxic sediments, soils, and wastewater treatment bioreactors. Previously published studies investigated interaction between the syntrophic bi-cultures, but little information is available on the influence of fermentative bacteria on syntrophic fatty acid oxidation, even though fermentative organisms are always present together with syntrophic partners in the above-mentioned ecosystems. Here, we present experimental observations of stimulated butyrate oxidation and methane generation by a coculture of Syntrophomonas wolfei with any of the following methanogens: Methanospirillum hungatei, Methanobrevibacter arboriphilus, or Methanobacterium formicicum due to the addition of a fermentative Trichococcus flocculiformis strain ES5. The addition of T. flocculiformis ES5 to the syntrophic cocultures led to an increase in the rates of butyrate consumption (120%) and volumetric methane production (150%). Scanning electron microscopy of the most positively affected coculture (S. wolfei, M. hungatei, and T. flocculiformis ES5) revealed a tendency of T. flocculiformis ES5 to aggregate with the syntrophic partners. Analysis of coculture's proteome with or without addition of the fermentative bacterium points to a potential link with signal transducing systems of M. hungatei, as well as activation of additional butyryl coenzyme A dehydrogenase and an electron transfer flavoprotein in S. wolfei. IMPORTANCE Results from the present study open doors to fascinating research on complex microbial cultures in anaerobic environments (of biotechnological and ecological relevance). Such studies of defined mixed populations are critical to understanding the highly intertwined natural and engineered microbial systems and to developing more reliable and trustable metabolic models. By investigating the existing cultured microbial consortia, like the ones described here, we can acquire knowledge on microbial interactions that go beyond "who feeds whom" relations but yet benefit the parties involved. Transfer of signaling compounds and stimulation of gene expression are examples of indirect influence that members of mixed communities can exert on each other. Understanding such microbial relationships will enable development of new sustainable biotechnologies with mixed microbial cocultures and contribute to the general understanding of the complex natural microbial interactions.
PXD014149	35701420	Implementing the reuse of public DIA proteomics datasets: from the PRIDE database to Expression Atlas. 	Investigating the Succinylome and Malonylome of Schizophrenia	antipsychotics, malonylation, mk-801, schizophrenia, succinylation	The number of mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics datasets in the public domain keeps increasing, particularly those generated by Data Independent Acquisition (DIA) approaches such as SWATH-MS. Unlike Data Dependent Acquisition datasets, the re-use of DIA datasets has been rather limited to date, despite its high potential, due to the technical challenges involved. We introduce a (re-)analysis pipeline for public SWATH-MS datasets which includes a combination of metadata annotation protocols, automated workflows for MS data analysis, statistical analysis, and the integration of the results into the Expression Atlas resource. Automation is orchestrated with Nextflow, using containerised open analysis software tools, rendering the pipeline readily available and reproducible. To demonstrate its utility, we reanalysed 10 public DIA datasets from the PRIDE database, comprising 1,278 SWATH-MS runs. The robustness of the analysis was evaluated, and the results compared to those obtained in the original publications. The final expression values were integrated into Expression Atlas, making SWATH-MS experiments more widely available and combining them with expression data originating from other proteomics and transcriptomics datasets.
PXD031801	35701426	Ursodeoxycholic acid reduces antitumor immunosuppression by inducing CHIP-mediated TGF-beta degradation. 	Ursodeoxycholic acid promoted TGF-beta degradation	PKA, TGF-beta1, phosphorylation modification	TGF-beta is essential for inducing systemic tumor immunosuppression; thus, blocking TGF-beta can greatly enhance antitumor immunity. However, there are still no effective TGF-beta inhibitors in clinical use. Here, we show that the clinically approved compound ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), by degrading TGF-beta, enhances antitumor immunity through restraining Treg cell differentiation and activation in tumor-bearing mice. Furthermore, UDCA synergizes with anti-PD-1 to enhance antitumor immunity and tumor-specific immune memory in tumor-bearing mice. UDCA phosphorylates TGF-beta at T282 site via TGR5-cAMP-PKA axis, causing increased binding of TGF-beta to carboxyl terminus of Hsc70-interacting protein (CHIP). Then, CHIP ubiquitinates TGF-beta at the K315 site, initiating p62-dependent autophagic sorting and subsequent degradation of TGF-beta. Notably, results of retrospective analysis shows that combination therapy with anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 and UDCA has better efficacy in tumor patients than anti-PD-1 or anti-PD-L1 alone. Thus, our results show a mechanism for TGF-beta regulation and implicate UDCA as a potential TGF-beta inhibitor to enhance antitumor immunity.
PXD031852	35702612	Silk-based hydrogel incorporated with metal-organic framework nanozymes for enhanced osteochondral regeneration. 	Silk-based hydrogel incorporated with metal-organic framework nanozymes for enhanced osteochondral regeneration	ROS, inflammation, metal-organic framework, nanozyme, osteochondral regeneration, silk	Osteochondral defects (OCD) cannot be efficiently repaired due to the unique physical architecture and the pathological microenvironment including enhanced oxidative stress and inflammation. Conventional strategies, such as the control of implant microstructure or the introduction of growth factors, have limited functions failing to manage these complex environments. Here we developed a multifunctional silk-based hydrogel incorporated with metal-organic framework nanozymes (CuTA@SF) to provide a suitable microenvironment for enhanced OCD regeneration. The incorporation of CuTA nanozymes endowed the SF hydrogel with a uniform microstructure and elevated hydrophilicity. In vitro cultivation of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and chondrocytes showed that CuTA@SF hydrogel accelerated cell proliferation and enhanced cell viability, as well as had antioxidant and antibacterial properties. Under the inflammatory environment with the stimulation of IL-1beta, CuTA@SF hydrogel still possessed the potential to promote MSC osteogenesis and deposition of cartilage-specific extracellular matrix (ECM). The proteomics analysis further confirmed that CuTA@SF hydrogel promoted cell proliferation and ECM synthesis. In the full-thickness OCD model of rabbit, CuTA@SF hydrogel displayed successfully in situ OCD regeneration, as evidenced by micro-CT, histology (HE, S/O, and toluidine blue staining) and immunohistochemistry (Col I and aggrecan immunostaining). Therefore, CuTA@SF hydrogel is a promising biomaterial targeted at the regeneration of OCD.
PXD023599	35704578	HYPK promotes the activity of the N(alpha)-acetyltransferase A complex to determine proteostasis of nonAc-X(2)/N-degron-containing proteins. 	Mass-spectrometry based quantification of HYPK, NAA10 and NAA15 protein steady-state levels in Arabidopsis thaliana mutants carrying a T-DNA insertion in the HYPK gene.	HYPK, N-alpha terminal acetylation, NatA complex	In humans, the Huntingtin yeast partner K (HYPK) binds to the ribosome-associated N(alpha)-acetyltransferase A (NatA) complex that acetylates ~40% of the proteome in humans and Arabidopsis thaliana. However, the relevance of HsHYPK for determining the human N-acetylome is unclear. Here, we identify the AtHYPK protein as the first in vivo regulator of NatA activity in plants. AtHYPK physically interacts with the ribosome-anchoring subunit of NatA and promotes N(alpha)-terminal acetylation of diverse NatA substrates. Loss-of-AtHYPK mutants are remarkably resistant to drought stress and strongly resemble the phenotype of NatA-depleted plants. The ectopic expression of HsHYPK rescues this phenotype. Combined transcriptomics, proteomics, and N-terminomics unravel that HYPK impairs plant metabolism and development, predominantly by regulating NatA activity. We demonstrate that HYPK is a critical regulator of global proteostasis by facilitating masking of the recently identified nonAc-X(2)/N-degron. This N-degron targets many nonacetylated NatA substrates for degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome system.
PXD029803	35705035	Human peroxiredoxin 6 is essential for malaria parasites and provides a host-based drug target. 	MS-CETSA discovery of target engagement by Darapladib	CETSA, Plasmodium falciparum, RBC, Red Blood Cell, TPP, malaria	The uptake and digestion of host hemoglobin by malaria parasites during blood-stage growth leads to significant oxidative damage of membrane lipids. Repair of lipid peroxidation damage is crucial for parasite survival. Here, we demonstrate that Plasmodium falciparum imports a host antioxidant enzyme, peroxiredoxin 6 (PRDX6), during hemoglobin uptake from the red blood cell cytosol. PRDX6 is a lipid-peroxidation repair enzyme with phospholipase A2 (PLA2) activity. Inhibition of PRDX6 with a PLA2 inhibitor, Darapladib, increases lipid-peroxidation damage in the parasite and disrupts transport of hemoglobin-containing vesicles to the food vacuole, causing parasite death. Furthermore, inhibition of PRDX6 synergistically reduces the survival of artemisinin-resistant parasites following co-treatment of parasite cultures with artemisinin and Darapladib. Thus, PRDX6 is a host-derived drug target for development of antimalarial drugs that could help overcome artemisinin resistance.
PXD027548	35705079	A mechanosensitive lipolytic factor in the bone marrow promotes osteogenesis and lymphopoiesis. 	Global quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis and Mass spectrometry analysis of GCA effects on BMSCs.	Bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells, Grancalcin, Immune cells, Plexin-b2 pathway., Skeletal aging	Exercise can prevent osteoporosis and improve immune function, but the mechanism remains unclear. Here, we show that exercise promotes reticulocalbin-2 secretion from the bone marrow macrophages to initiate bone marrow fat lipolysis. Given the crucial role of lipolysis in exercise-stimulated osteogenesis and lymphopoiesis, these findings suggest that reticulocalbin-2 is a pivotal regulator of a local adipose-osteogenic/immune axis. Mechanistically, reticulocalbin-2 binds to a functional receptor complex, which is composed of neuronilin-2 and integrin beta-1, to activate a cAMP-PKA signaling pathway that mobilizes bone marrow fat via lipolysis to fuel the differentiation and function of mesenchymal and hematopoietic stem cells. Notably, the administration of recombinant reticulocalbin-2 in tail-suspended and old mice remarkably decreases bone marrow fat accumulation and promotes osteogenesis and lymphopoiesis. These findings identify reticulocalbin-2 as a novel mechanosensitive lipolytic factor in maintaining energy homeostasis in bone resident cells, and it provides a promising target for skeletal and immune health.
PXD031560	35705692	Glutamine and norepinephrine in follicular fluid synergistically enhance the antioxidant capacity of human granulosa cells and the outcome of IVF-ET. 	Human follicular fluid neurotransmitters LC-MSMS	follicular fluid	An increasing number of studies demonstrate that changes in neurotransmitters metabolic levels in follicular fluid are directly related to oocyte maturation, fertilization, the quality of embryo and pregnancy rates. However, the relationship between the intra-follicular neurotransmitters and the function of granulosa cells (GCs), and the outcome of in vitro fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET) is not clear. Human follicular fluid and cumulus GCs were harvested from large follicles obtained from patients undergoing IVF. Neurotransmitters and steroid hormones in follicular fluid were measured through liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS). Based on the content of glutamine (Gln) in follicular fluid, the samples were divided into two groups: high Gln level group and low Gln level group. The expression of proliferation-, steroidogenesis- and antioxidant-related genes in GCs was detected by qRT-PCR. In vitro, KGN cells were used to further verify the effects of Gln and NE on GCs function. Primary and secondary outcomes were the number of mature and retrieved oocytes, and the ratio of high-quality embryos, respectively. Gln (46.75 +/- 7.74 mug/mL) and norepinephrine (NE, 0.20 +/- 0.07 mug/mL) were abundant neurotransmitters in follicular fluid, and exhibited a significantly positive correlation (R = 0.5869, P < 0.005). In high Gln level group, the expression of proliferation, steroidogenesis and antioxidant-related genes in GCs were higher than those in low Gln level group, and the contents of estriol and E2 in follicular fluid were more abundant. Moreover, the concentrations of Gln and NE in follicular fluid showed significantly positive correlation with IDH1 expression in GCs (R = 0.3822, R = 0.4009, P < 0.05). Importantly, a significantly positive correlation was observed between IDH1 expression in GCs and the ratio of higher-quality/cleaved embryos (R = 0.4480, P < 0.05). In vitro studies further demonstrated that Gln and NE played synergistically function in improving GCs proliferation and E2 production by upregulating IDH1 expression. These data demonstrate that Gln and NE in follicular fluid might play significant positive roles in GCs function, and may be potential predictors for selecting optimal quality oocytes and evaluating the quality of embryonic development.
PXD033232	35705813	Deciphering the immunopeptidome in vivo reveals new tumour antigens. 	Deciphering the immunopeptidome in vivo reveals novel tumor antigens	H2-Kb, MHC, antigen presentation, immunopeptidomics, in vivo, ligandomics	Immunosurveillance of cancer requires the presentation of peptide antigens on major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC-I) molecules(1-5). Current approaches to profiling of MHC-I-associated peptides, collectively known as the immunopeptidome, are limited to in vitro investigation or bulk tumour lysates, which limits our understanding of cancer-specific patterns of antigen presentation in vivo(6). To overcome these limitations, we engineered an inducible affinity tag into the mouse MHC-I gene (H2-K1) and targeted this allele to the Kras(LSL-G12D/+)Trp53(fl/fl) mouse model (KP/K(b)Strep)(7). This approach enabled us to precisely isolate MHC-I peptides from autochthonous pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma and from lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) in vivo. In addition, we profiled the LUAD immunopeptidome from the alveolar type 2 cell of origin up to late-stage disease. Differential peptide presentation in LUAD was not predictable by mRNA expression or translation efficiency and is probably driven by post-translational mechanisms. Vaccination with peptides presented by LUAD in vivo induced CD8(+) T cell responses in naive mice and tumour-bearing mice. Many peptides specific to LUAD, including immunogenic peptides, exhibited minimal expression of the cognate mRNA, which prompts the reconsideration of antigen prediction pipelines that triage peptides according to transcript abundance(8). Beyond cancer, the K(b)Strep allele is compatible with other Cre-driver lines to explore antigen presentation in vivo in the pursuit of understanding basic immunology, infectious disease and autoimmunity.
PXD032352	35707369	SFPQ Promotes Lung Cancer Malignancy via Regulation of CD44 v6 Expression. 	Proteomic Analysis of the IPF Mesenchymal Progenitor Cell Nuclear Proteome Identifies Abnormalities in Key Nodal Proteins That Underlie Their Fibrogenic Phenotype	DNA damage, Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF), Ingenuity pathway analysis, apoptosis, differentiation, mesenchymal progenitor cells (MPCs), nuclear fraction, quantitative mass spectrometry	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) contribute to tumor pathogenesis and elicit antitumor immune responses in tumor microenvironments. Nuclear proteins might be the main players in these processes. In the current study, combining spatial proteomics with ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) in lung non-small cell (NSC) cancer MSCs, we identify a key nuclear protein regulator, SFPQ (Splicing Factor Proline and Glutamine Rich), which is overexpressed in lung cancer MSCs and functions to promote MSCs proliferation, chemical resistance, and invasion. Mechanistically, the knockdown of SFPQ reduces CD44v6 expression to inhibit lung cancer MSCs stemness, proliferation in vitro, and metastasis in vivo. The data indicates that SFPQ may be a potential therapeutic target for limiting growth, chemotherapy resistance, and metastasis of lung cancer.
PXD033107	35707458	A Photo-Crosslinking Approach to Identify Class II SUMO-1 Binders. 	A photo-crosslink approach to identify class II SUMO binders	SUMO, chemical crosslinking, genetic code expansion, p-benzoyl-phenylalanine, ubiquitin-like protein	The small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) is involved in various cellular processes and mediates known non-covalent protein-protein interactions by three distinct binding surfaces, whose interactions are termed class I to class III. While interactors for the class I interaction, which involves binding of a SUMO-interacting motif (SIM) to a hydrophobic groove in SUMO-1 and SUMO-2/3, are widely abundant, only a couple of examples have been reported for the other two types of interactions. Class II binding is conveyed by the E67 loop region on SUMO-1. Many previous studies to identify SUMO binders using pull-down or microarray approaches did not strategize on the SUMO binding mode. Identification of SUMO binding partners is further complicated due to the typically transient and low affinity interactions with the modifier. Here we aimed to identify SUMO-1 binders selectively enriched for class II binding. Using a genetically encoded photo-crosslinker approach, we have designed SUMO-1 probes to covalently capture class II SUMO-1 interactors by strategically positioning the photo-crosslinking moiety on the SUMO-1 surface. The probes were validated using known class II and class I binding partners. We utilized the probe with p-benzoyl-phenylalanine (BzF, also termed BpF or Bpa) at the position of Gln69 to identify binding proteins from mammalian cell extracts using mass spectrometry. By comparison with results obtained with a similarly designed SUMO-1 probe to target SIM-mediated binders of the class I type, we identified 192 and 96 proteins specifically enriched by either probe, respectively. The implicated preferential class I or class II binding modes of these proteins will further contribute to unveiling the complex interplay of SUMO-1-mediated interactions.
PXD031936	35709258	Spatial centrosome proteome of human neural cells uncovers disease-relevant heterogeneity. 	Spatial centrosome proteome of human neural cells uncovers novel interactors and disease hubs	Centrosome, RNA splicing, human brain, interactome, neural stem cells, neurodevelopmental disorder, neuron	The centrosome provides an intracellular anchor for the cytoskeleton, regulating cell division, cell migration, and cilia formation. We used spatial proteomics to elucidate protein interaction networks at the centrosome of human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neural stem cells (NSCs) and neurons. Centrosome-associated proteins were largely cell type-specific, with protein hubs involved in RNA dynamics. Analysis of neurodevelopmental disease cohorts identified a significant overrepresentation of NSC centrosome proteins with variants in patients with periventricular heterotopia (PH). Expressing the PH-associated mutant pre-mRNA-processing factor 6 (PRPF6) reproduced the periventricular misplacement in the developing mouse brain, highlighting missplicing of transcripts of a microtubule-associated kinase with centrosomal location as essential for the phenotype. Collectively, cell type-specific centrosome interactomes explain how genetic variants in ubiquitous proteins may convey brain-specific phenotypes.
PXD032084	35709757	Small intestinal resident eosinophils maintain gut homeostasis following microbial colonization. 	Small Intestinal Resident Eosinophils Maintain Gut Homeostasis Following Microbial Colonisation	â€¢ Eosinophil â€¢ Tissue homeostasis â€¢ Intestinal barrier â€¢ Small intestine â€¢ Germ-free â€¢ Microbiome â€¢ Extracellular matrix â€¢ Villous atrophy	The intestine harbors a large population of resident eosinophils, yet the function of intestinal eosinophils has not been explored. Flow cytometry and whole-mount imaging identified eosinophils residing in the lamina propria along the length of the intestine prior to postnatal microbial colonization. Microscopy, transcriptomic analysis, and mass spectrometry of intestinal tissue revealed villus blunting, altered extracellular matrix, decreased epithelial cell turnover, increased gastrointestinal motility, and decreased lipid absorption in eosinophil-deficient mice. Mechanistically, intestinal epithelial cells released IL-33 in a microbiota-dependent manner, which led to eosinophil activation. The colonization of germ-free mice demonstrated that eosinophil activation in response to microbes regulated villous size alterations, macrophage maturation, epithelial barrier integrity, and intestinal transit. Collectively, our findings demonstrate a critical role for eosinophils in facilitating the mutualistic interactions between the host and microbiota and provide a rationale for the functional significance of their early life recruitment in the small intestine.
PXD029277	35710570	H3K27ac mediated SS18/BAFs relocation regulates JUN induced pluripotent-somatic transition. 	SS18/BAFs regulate chromatin accessibility dynamics during pluripotent-somatic transition	JUN, SS18/BAFs complex, cell fate determination, chromatin accessibility, mouse embryonic stem cells, pluripotent-somatic transition	BACKGROUND: The exit from pluripotency or pluripotent-somatic transition (PST) landmarks an event of early mammalian embryonic development, representing a model for cell fate transition. RESULTS: In this study, using a robust JUN-induced PST within 8 h as a model, we investigate the chromatin accessibility dynamics (CAD) as well as the behaviors of corresponding chromatin remodeling complex SS18/BAFs, to probe the key events at the early stage of PST. Here, we report that, JUN triggers the open of 34661 chromatin sites within 4 h, accomplished with the activation of somatic genes, such as Anxa1, Fosl1. ChIP-seq data reveal a rapid relocation of SS18/BAFs from pluripotent loci to AP-1 associated ones. Consistently, the knockdown of Brg1, core component of BAF complexes, leads to failure in chromatin opening but not closing, resulting in delay for JUN induced PST. Notably, the direct interaction between SS18/BAFs and JUN-centric protein complexes is undetectable by IP-MS. Instead, we show that H3K27ac deposited by cJUN dependent process regulates SS18/BAFs complex to AP1-containing loci and facilitate chromatin opening and gene activation. CONCLUSIONS: These results reveal a rapid transfer of chromatin remodeling complexes BAF from pluripotent to somatic loci during PST, revealing a simple mechanistic aspect of cell fate control.
PXD031976	35710617	Chemoproteomic identification of CO2-dependent lysine carboxylation in proteins. 	Quantitative chemoproteomic identification of lysine carboxylation in proteins	CO2, chemoproteomics, homocitrulline, lysine carboxylation	Carbon dioxide is an omnipresent gas that drives adaptive responses within organisms from all domains of life. The molecular mechanisms by which proteins serve as sensors of CO2 are, accordingly, of great interest. Because CO2 is electrophilic, one way it can modulate protein biochemistry is by carboxylation of the amine group of lysine residues. However, the resulting CO2-carboxylated lysines spontaneously decompose, giving off CO2, which makes studying this modification difficult. Here we describe a method to stably mimic CO2-carboxylated lysine residues in proteins. We leverage this method to develop a quantitative approach to identify CO2-carboxylated lysines of proteins and explore the lysine 'carboxylome' of the CO2-responsive cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. We uncover one CO2-carboxylated lysine within the effector binding pocket of the metabolic signaling protein PII. CO2-carboxylatation of this lysine markedly lowers the affinity of PII for its regulatory effector ligand ATP, illuminating a negative molecular control mechanism mediated by CO2.
PXD032896	35711420	Comparative Proteomic Analysis Revealed the Mechanism of Tea Tree Oil Targeting Lipid Metabolism and Antioxidant System to Protect Hepatopancreatic Health in Macrobrachium rosenbergii. 	Comparative proteomic analysis revealed the mechanism of tea tree oil in hepatopancreas of Macrobrachium rosenbergii	Macrobrachium rosenbergii, hepatopancreas, tea tree oil	Tea tree oil (TTO) is a pure natural plant essential oil. The studies evaluated the hepatopancreas lipid metabolism and antioxidant efficacy of Macrobrachium rosenbergii fed with 0 (CT group) and 100 mg/kg TTO (TT group) by label-free quantification proteomic analysis. Compared to the CT group, the TT group improved growth performance and increased the survival rate after stress. Dietary TTO also decreased hemolymph AST and ALT activities and decreased hepatopancreatic vacuolation. At the same time, hepatopancreas lipids droplets and hemolymph lipids (TG, TC, LDL-C) were decreased, and the peroxidation products content (MDA, LPO, 4-HNE) was also decreased. In addition, the levels of hepatopancreas antioxidant enzymes (T-AOC, CAT, and SOD) were increased in the TT group. With proteomic analysis, a total of 151 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) (99 up-regulated and 52 down-regulated) were identified in the hepatopancreas. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) and protein-protein interaction analysis showed that the 16 DEPs have interactions, which are mainly involved in the pathways related to lipid metabolism (fatty acid biosynthesis, fatty acid metabolism, glycerophospholipid metabolism) and redox reaction (cytochrome P450 enzyme systems). Furthermore, the mRNA expression of 15 proteins followed the proteomic analysis with qRT-PCR validation. Pearson correlation analysis showed that fatty acids and glycerophospholipid metabolism-related proteins were highly correlated to peroxide content, glycerophospholipid metabolism, and cytochrome P450 system-related proteins (CYP1A1, GSTT1, GPX4) were highly correlated to AST and ALT. Additionally, GPX4 is closely related to peroxide content and antioxidant enzyme activity. Our results revealed that TTO plays a protective role in the hepatopancreas targeting the critical enzymes and antioxidant reactions in lipid metabolism. Provides a new perspective to elucidate the action path of TTO in protecting invertebrate hepatopancreas, highlights the influence of lipid metabolism on hepatopancreas health and the interaction between lipid metabolism and antioxidant system in the regulation of TTO.
PXD029873	35711556	10-Hydroxydec-2-Enoic Acid Reduces Hydroxyl Free Radical-Induced Damage to Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells by Rescuing Protein and Energy Metabolism. 	10-HDA reduces the hydroxyl free radical-induced damage to vascular smooth muscle cells by rescuing protein and energy metabolisms	10-hydroxydec-2-enoic acid, cytotoxicity, hydroxyl free radical, vascular smooth muscle cell	10-Hydroxydec-2-enoic acid (10-HDA), an unsaturated hydroxyl fatty acid from the natural food royal jelly, can protect against cell and tissue damage, yet the underlying mechanisms are still unexplored. We hypothesized that the neutralization of the hydroxyl free radical (*OH), the most reactive oxygen species, is an important factor underlying the cytoprotective effect of 10-HDA. In this study, we found that the *OH scavenging rate by 10-HDA (2%, g/ml) was more than 20%, which was achieved through multiple-step oxidization of the -OH group and C=C bond of 10-HDA. Moreover, 10-HDA significantly enhanced the viability of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) damaged by *OH (P < 0.01), significantly attenuated *OH-derived malondialdehyde production that represents cellular lipid peroxidation (P < 0.05), and significantly increased the glutathione levels in *OH-stressed VSMCs (P < 0.05), indicating the role of 10-HDA in reducing *OH-induced cytotoxicity. Further proteomic analyses of VSMCs identified 195 proteins with decreased expression by *OH challenge that were upregulated by 10-HDA rescue and were primarily involved in protein synthesis (such as translation, protein transport, ribosome, and RNA binding) and energy metabolism (such as fatty acid degradation and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis). Taken together, these findings indicate that 10-HDA can effectively promote cell survival by antagonizing *OH-induced injury in VSMCs. To the best of our knowledge, our results provide the first concrete evidence that 10-HDA-scavenged *OH could be a potential pharmacological application for maintaining vascular health.
PXD029117	35713284	Monosialotetrahexosylganglioside Promotes Early Abeta42 Oligomer Formation and Maintenance. 	GM1 promotes early Abeta oligomer formation and maintenance	Alzheimers disease, GM1, amyloid beta, oligomers	The aggregation of the amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide is associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. Cell membrane composition, especially monosialotetrahexosylganglioside (GM1), is known to promote the formation of Abeta fibrils, yet little is known about the roles of GM1 in the early steps of Abeta oligomer formation. Here, by using GM1-contained liposomes as a mimic of the neuronal cell membrane, we demonstrate that GM1 is a critical trigger of Abeta oligomerization and aggregation. We find that GM1 not only promotes the formation of Abeta fibrils but also facilitates the maintenance of Abeta42 oligomers on liposome membranes. We structurally characterize the Abeta42 oligomers formed on the membrane and find that GM1 captures Abeta by binding to its arginine-5 residue. To interrogate the mechanism of Abeta42 oligomer toxicity, we design a new liposome-based Ca(2+)-encapsulation assay and provide new evidence for the Abeta42 ion channel hypothesis. Finally, we determine the toxicity of Abeta42 oligomers formed on membranes. Overall, by uncovering the roles of GM1 in mediating early Abeta oligomer formation and maintenance, our work provides a novel direction for pharmaceutical research for AD.
PXD027683	35714031	Unprocessed wheat gamma-gliadin reduces gluten accumulation associated with the endoplasmic reticulum stress and elevated cell death. 	proteome sequencing of Triticum aestivum L	tandem mass tags, wheat	Along with increasing demands for high yield, elite processing quality and improved nutrient value in wheat, concerns have emerged around the effects of gluten in wheat-based foods on human health. However, knowledge of the mechanisms regulating gluten accumulation remains largely unexplored. Here we report the identification and characterization of a wheat low gluten protein 1 (lgp1) mutant that shows extremely low levels of gliadins and glutenins. The lgp1 mutation in a single gamma-gliadin gene causes defective signal peptide cleavage, resulting in the accumulation of an excessive amount of unprocessed gamma-gliadin and a reduced level of gluten, which alters the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) structure, forms the autophagosome-like structures, leads to the delivery of seed storage proteins to the extracellular space and causes a reduction in starch biosynthesis. Physiologically, these effects trigger ER stress and cell death. This study unravels a unique mechanism that unprocessed gamma-gliadin reduces gluten accumulation associated with ER stress and elevated cell death in wheat. Moreover, the reduced gluten level in the lgp1 mutant makes it a good candidate for specific diets for patients with diabetes or kidney diease.
PXD031223	35714177	Sex-specific phenotypes in the aging mouse heart and consequences for chronic fibrosis. 	Chronic Aicar Treatment Identifies Sex-specific Phenotypes in the Aging Mouse Heart	aging, extracellular matrix, heart, label-free profiling	The incidence of diastolic dysfunction increases with age in both humans and mice. This is characterized by increased passive stiffness and slower relaxation of the left ventricle. The stiffness arises at least partially from progressively increased interstitial collagen deposition because of highly secretory fibroblasts. In the past, we demonstrated that AMPK activation via the drug 5-aminoimidazole-4-carboxamide riboside (AICAR) in middle-aged mice reduced adverse remodeling after myocardial infarction. Therefore, as an attempt to normalize the fibroblast phenotype, we used 21-mo-old male and female mice and treated them with AICAR (0.166 mg/g body wt) where each mouse was followed in a functional study over a 3-mo period. We found sex-related differences in extracellular matrix (ECM) composition as well as heart function indices at baseline, which were further accentuated by AICAR treatment. AICAR attenuated the age-related increase in left atrial volume (LAV, an indicator of diastolic dysfunction) in female but not in male hearts, which was associated with reduced collagen deposition in the old female heart, and reduced the transcription factor Gli1 expression in cardiac fibroblasts. We further demonstrated that collagen synthesis was dependent on Gli1, which is a target of AMPK-mediated degradation. By contrast, AICAR had a minor impact on cardiac fibroblasts in the old male heart because of blunted AMPK phosphorylation. Hence, it did not significantly improve old male heart function indices. In conclusion, we demonstrated that male and female hearts are phenotypically different, and sex-specific differences need to be considered when analyzing the response to pharmacological intervention.NEW & NOTEWORTHY The aging heart develops diastolic dysfunction because of increased collagen deposition. We attempted to reduce collagen expression in the old heart by activating AMPK using AICAR. An improvement of diastolic function and reduction of cardiac fibrosis was found only in the female heart and correlated with decreased procollagen expression and increased degradation of the transcription factor Gli1. Male hearts display blunted AICAR-dependent AMPK activation and therefore this treatment had no benefits for the male mice.
PXD028783	35714289	Identification of the Bartonella autotransporter CFA as a protective antigen and hypervariable target of neutralizing antibodies in mice. 	The Bartonella autotransporter CFA is a protective antigen and hypervariable target of neutralizing antibodies blocking erythrocyte infection	Bartonella, Infection, LC-MS	The bacterial genus Bartonella comprises numerous emerging pathogens that cause a broad spectrum of disease manifestations in humans. The targets and mechanisms of the anti-Bartonella immune defense are ill-defined and bacterial immune evasion strategies remain elusive. We found that experimentally infected mice resolved Bartonella infection by mounting antibody responses that neutralized the bacteria, preventing their attachment to erythrocytes and suppressing bacteremia independent of complement or Fc receptors. Bartonella-neutralizing antibody responses were rapidly induced and depended on CD40 signaling but not on affinity maturation. We cloned neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and by mass spectrometry identified the bacterial autotransporter CFA (CAMP-like factor autotransporter) as a neutralizing antibody target. Vaccination against CFA suppressed Bartonella bacteremia, validating CFA as a protective antigen. We mapped Bartonella-neutralizing mAb binding to a domain in CFA that we found is hypervariable in both human and mouse pathogenic strains, indicating mutational antibody evasion at the Bartonella subspecies level. These insights into Bartonella immunity and immune evasion provide a conceptual framework for vaccine development, identifying important challenges in this endeavor.
PXD024014	35714458	Integrated proteomics and transcriptomics analyses identify novel cell surface markers of HIV latency. 	Integrated proteomics and transcriptomics analysis identifies novel cell surface markers of HIV latency	CEACAM1, HIV latency, PLXNB2, RNA-Seq, biomarkers, liquid chromatography mass spectrometry, primary CD4+ T cells, transcriptome	Elimination of the latent HIV cell reservoir may be possible, if the molecular identity of latently infected cells were fully elucidated. We conducted comprehensive molecular profiling, at the protein and RNA levels, of primary T cells latently infected with HIV in vitro. Isobaric labelling quantitative proteomics and RNA sequencing identified 1453 proteins and 618 genes, altered in latently infected cells compared to mock-infected controls (p < 0.05). Biomarker selection was based on results from integrated data analysis. Relative enrichment for latently infected cells was monitored using flow cytometric sorting and the HIV integrant assay. Antibodies against selected proteins, encoded by CEACAM1 and PLXNB2, enabled enrichment of latently infected cells from cell mixtures by 3-10 fold (5.8 average, p < 0.001), comparable to levels obtained with biomarkers reported previously. Individual biomarkers are likely linked to subsets of latently infected cells, and an extended antibody panel will be required to inclusively target the latent HIV reservoir.
PXD033346	35714772	Structural basis for c-di-AMP-dependent regulation of the bacterial stringent response by receptor protein DarB. 	Structural basis for the c-di-AMP - dependent regulation of the stringent response by DarB	BS3, CX-MS, DarB	The bacterial second messenger c-di-AMP controls essential cellular processes, including potassium and osmolyte homeostasis. This makes synthesizing enzymes and components involved in c-di-AMP signal transduction intriguing as potential targets for drug development. The c-di-AMP receptor protein DarB of Bacillus subtilis binds the Rel protein and triggers the Rel-dependent stringent response to stress conditions; however, the structural basis for this trigger is unclear. Here, we report crystal structures of DarB in the ligand-free state and of DarB complexed with c-di-AMP, 3'3'-cGAMP, and AMP. We show that DarB forms a homodimer with a parallel, head-to-head assembly of the monomers. We also confirm the DarB dimer binds two cyclic dinucleotide molecules or two AMP molecules; only one adenine of bound c-di-AMP is specifically recognized by DarB, while the second protrudes out of the donut-shaped protein. This enables DarB to bind also 3'3'-cGAMP, as only the adenine fits in the active site. In absence of c-di-AMP, DarB binds to Rel and stimulates (p)ppGpp synthesis, whereas the presence of c-di-AMP abolishes this interaction. Furthermore, the DarB crystal structures reveal no conformational changes upon c-di-AMP binding, leading us to conclude the regulatory function of DarB on Rel must be controlled directly by the bound c-di-AMP. We thus derived a structural model of the DarB-Rel complex via in silico docking, which was validated with mass spectrometric analysis of the chemically crosslinked DarB-Rel complex and mutagenesis studies. We suggest, based on the predicted complex structure, a mechanism of stringent response regulation by c-di-AMP.
PXD028975	35716062	Engineering extracellular vesicles by three-dimensional dynamic culture of human mesenchymal stem cells. 	Engineering Extracellular Vesicles by Three-dimensional Dynamic Culture of Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells	3D aggregates, biogenesis, extracellular vesicles, human mesenchymal stem cells, immunomodulation, rejuvenation	Human mesenchymal stem cell (hMSC) derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) have shown therapeutic potential in recent studies. However, the corresponding therapeutic components are largely unknown, and scale-up production of hMSC EVs is a major challenge for translational applications. In the current study, hMSCs were grown as 3D aggregates under wave motion to promote EV secretion. Results demonstrate that 3D hMSC aggregates promote activation of the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT)-dependent and -independent pathways. mRNA sequencing revealed global transcriptome alterations for 3D hMSC aggregates. Compared to 2D-hMSC-EVs, the quantity of 3D-hMSC-EVs was enhanced significantly (by 2-fold), with smaller sizes, higher miR-21 and miR-22 expression, and an altered protein cargo (e.g., upregulation of cytokines and anti-inflammatory factors) uncovered by proteomics analysis, possibly due to altered EV biogenesis. Functionally, 3D-hMSC-EVs rejuvenated senescent stem cells and exhibited enhanced immunomodulatory potentials. In summary, this study provides a promising strategy for scalable production of high-quality EVs from hMSCs with enhanced therapeutic potential.
PXD025852	35716063	Ascorbate peroxidase-mediated in situ labelling of proteins in secreted exosomes. 	An in situ ascorbate peroxidase 2-based labeling method and its application in detecting exosome proteins released from mouse proximal tubule cells under oxidative stress	APEX2, Exosomes, kidney, oxidative stress	The extracellular vesicle exosome mediates intercellular communication by transporting macromolecules such as proteins and ribonucleic acids (RNAs). Determining cargo contents with high accuracy will help decipher the biological processes that exosomes mediate in various contexts. Existing methods for probing exosome cargo molecules rely on a prior exosome isolation procedure. Here we report an in situ labelling approach for exosome cargo identification, which bypasses the exosome isolation steps. In this methodology, a variant of the engineered ascorbate peroxidase APEX, fused to an exosome cargo protein such as CD63, is expressed specifically in exosome-generating vesicles in live cells or in secreted exosomes in the conditioned medium, to induce biotinylation of the proteins in the vicinity of the APEX variant for a short period of time. Mass spectrometry analysis of the proteins biotinylated by this approach in exosomes secreted by kidney proximal tubule-derived cells reveals that oxidative stress can cause ribosomal proteins to accumulate in an exosome subpopulation that contains the CD63-fused APEX variant.
PXD030871	35716664	Cullin-independent recognition of HHARI substrates by a dynamic RBR catalytic domain. 	Quantitative XL-MS Analysis of HHARI in the presence or absence of 4EHP	Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry Kojak ProXL Skyline Cullin HHARI RBR E3 ligase ubiquitin	RING-between-RING (RBR) E3 ligases mediate ubiquitin transfer through an obligate E3-ubiquitin thioester intermediate prior to substrate ubiquitination. Although RBRs share a conserved catalytic module, substrate recruitment mechanisms remain enigmatic, and the relevant domains have yet to be identified for any member of the class. Here we characterize the interaction between the auto-inhibited RBR, HHARI (AriH1), and its target protein, 4EHP, using a combination of XL-MS, HDX-MS, NMR, and biochemical studies. The results show that (1) a di-aromatic surface on the catalytic HHARI Rcat domain forms a binding platform for substrates and (2) a phosphomimetic mutation on the auto-inhibitory Ariadne domain of HHARI promotes release and reorientation of Rcat for transthiolation and substrate modification. The findings identify a direct binding interaction between a RING-between-RING ligase and its substrate and suggest a general model for RBR substrate recognition.
PXD025880	35716777	Activity-based protein profiling reveals active serine proteases that drive malignancy of human ovarian clear cell carcinoma. 	Protease activity profiling of ovarian clear cell carcinoma	activity-based probe, activity-based protein profiling (ABPP), enzyme inhibitor, ovarian cancer, peptidase, protein chemical modification, proteolytic enzyme, serine protease, tumor microenvironment	Ovarian clear cell carcinoma (OCCC) is an understudied poor prognosis subtype of ovarian cancer lacking in effective targeted therapies. Efforts to define molecular drivers of OCCC malignancy may lead to new therapeutic targets and approaches. Among potential targets are secreted proteases, enzymes which in many cancers serve as key drivers of malignant progression. Here, we found that inhibitors of trypsin-like serine proteases suppressed malignant phenotypes of OCCC cell lines. To identify the proteases responsible for malignancy in OCCC, we employed activity-based protein profiling to directly analyze enzyme activity. We developed an activity-based probe featuring an arginine diphenylphosphonate warhead to detect active serine proteases of trypsin-like specificity and a biotin handle to facilitate affinity purification of labeled proteases. Using this probe, we identified active trypsin-like serine proteases within the complex proteomes secreted by OCCC cell lines, including two proteases in common, tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase-type plasminogen activator. Further interrogation of these proteases showed that both were involved in cancer cell invasion and proliferation of OCCC cells and were also detected in in vivo models of OCCC. We conclude the detection of tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase-type plasminogen activator as catalytically active proteases and significant drivers of the malignant phenotype may point to these enzymes as targets for new therapeutic strategies in OCCC. Our activity-based probe and profiling methodology will also serve as a valuable tool for detection of active trypsin-like serine proteases in models of other cancers and other diseases.
PXD033751	35717442	Complex regulation of Gephyrin splicing is a determinant of inhibitory postsynaptic diversity. 	Complex regulation of Gephyrin splicing is a determinant of inhibitory postsynaptic diversity	Gephyrin, inhibitory synapses, splice variants	Gephyrin (GPHN) regulates the clustering of postsynaptic components at inhibitory synapses and is involved in pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders. Here, we uncover an extensive diversity of GPHN transcripts that are tightly controlled by splicing during mouse and human brain development. Proteomic analysis reveals at least a hundred isoforms of GPHN incorporated at inhibitory Glycine and gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptors containing synapses. They exhibit different localization and postsynaptic clustering properties, and altering the expression level of one isoform is sufficient to affect the number, size, and density of inhibitory synapses in cerebellar Purkinje cells. Furthermore, we discovered that splicing defects reported in neuropsychiatric disorders are carried by multiple alternative GPHN transcripts, demonstrating the need for a thorough analysis of the GPHN transcriptome in patients. Overall, we show that alternative splicing of GPHN is an important genetic variation to consider in neurological diseases and a determinant of the diversity of postsynaptic inhibitory synapses.
PXD033086	35719328	Proteomic Analysis of Extracellular Vesicles From Fasciola hepatica Hatching Eggs and Juveniles in Culture. 	PROTEOMIC ANALYSIS OF EXTRACELLULAR VESICLES FROM FASCIOLA HEPATICA HATCHING EGGS AND JUVENILES IN CULTURE	Extracellular vesicles, Fasciola hepatica eggs, Fasciola hepatica juveniles, helminth proteomics	The identification of extracellular vesicles (EVs) in Fasciola hepatica has provided a new way to understand parasite-host communication. Most of the studies on EVs have focused on the adult stage of F. hepatica, but recently, the presence of EVs from different developmental stages has been reported. To better understand the potential role of EVs in the biology of the parasite and in the infection process, the protein cargo of EVs from embryonated eggs and newly-excysted juvenile (NEJs) flukes cultured up to 28 days, has been analyzed. EVs were isolated by size exclusion chromatography and evaluated by nanoparticle tracking analysis and transmission electron microscopy. LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis of EVs revealed the presence of 23 different proteins from embryonated egg-derived EVs and 29 different proteins from NEJ-derived EVs. Most of the identified proteins had been previously described in EVs from F. hepatica adults, including cytoskeletal proteins, glycolytic enzymes, stress-related proteins and tetraspanins. Nevertheless, EVs from hatching eggs and NEJs exhibited qualitative differences in composition, when compared to EVs form adults, including the absence of cathepsin cysteine peptidases. The differential content of the EVs released by the different developmental stages of the parasite reflect the intense activity of NEJs at this early stage, with several proteins involved in membrane traffic and cell physiology. This new set of identified proteins could help to understand key metabolic, biochemical and molecular mechanisms mediated by EVs that take place upon egg hatching and after parasite excystment.
PXD032201	35720116	Efficient Detection of the Alternative Spliced Human Proteome Using Translatome Sequencing. 	Human hepatocellular carcinoma MHCC97H proteome	In-gel digestion, MHCC97H, liver	Alternative splicing (AS) isoforms create numerous proteoforms, expanding the complexity of the genome. Highly similar sequences, incomplete reference databases and the insufficient sequence coverage of mass spectrometry limit the identification of AS proteoforms. Here, we demonstrated full-length translating mRNAs (ribosome nascent-chain complex-bound mRNAs, RNC-mRNAs) sequencing (RNC-seq) strategy to sequence the entire translating mRNA using next-generation sequencing, including short-read and long-read technologies, to construct a protein database containing all translating AS isoforms. Taking the advantage of read length, short-read RNC-seq identified up to 15,289 genes and 15,906 AS isoforms in a single human cell line, much more than the Ribo-seq. The single-molecule long-read RNC-seq supplemented 4,429 annotated AS isoforms that were not identified by short-read datasets, and 4,525 novel AS isoforms that were not included in the public databases. Using such RNC-seq-guided database, we identified 6,766 annotated protein isoforms and 50 novel protein isoforms in mass spectrometry datasets. These results demonstrated the potential of full-length RNC-seq in investigating the proteome of AS isoforms.
PXD033131	35720292	HAPLN1 Affects Cell Viability and Promotes the Pro-Inflammatory Phenotype of Fibroblast-Like Synoviocytes. 	Hyaluronan And Proteoglycan Link Protein 1 (HAPLN1) promotes Proliferation and Pro-inflammatory phenotype but not mobility of Fibroblast-like Synoviocytes	Rheumatoid arthritis, cell migration, cell viability, fibroblast-like synoviocytes, hyaluronan and proteoglycan link protein 1, pathogenesis	HAPLN1 maintains aggregation and the binding activity of extracellular matrix (ECM) molecules (such as hyaluronic acid and proteoglycan) to stabilize the macromolecular structure of the ECM. An increase in HAPLN1 expression is observed in a few types of musculoskeletal diseases including rheumatoid arthritis (RA); however, its functions are obscure. This study examined the role of HAPLN1 in determining the viability, proliferation, mobility, and pro-inflammatory phenotype of RA- fibroblast-like synoviocytes (RA-FLSs) by using small interfering RNA (siHAPLN1), over-expression vector (HAPLN1(OE)), and a recombinant HAPLN1 (rHAPLN1) protein. HAPLN1 was found to promote proliferation but inhibit RA-FLS migration. Metformin, an AMPK activator, was previously found by us to be able to inhibit FLS activation but promote HAPLN1 secretion. In this study, we confirmed the up-regulation of HAPLN1 in RA patients, and found the positive relationship between HAPLN1 expression and the AMPK level. Treatment with either si-HAPLN1 or HAPLN1(OE) down-regulated the expression of AMPK-a gene, although up-regulation of the level of p-AMPK-a was observed in RA-FLSs. si-HAPLN1 down-regulated the expression of proinflammatory factors like TNF-a, MMPs, and IL-6, while HAPLN1(OE) up-regulated their levels. qPCR assay indicated that the levels of TGF-beta, ACAN, fibronectin, collagen II, and Ki-67 were down-regulated upon si-HAPLN1 treatment, while HAPLN1(OE) treatment led to up-regulation of ACAN and Ki-67 and down-regulation of cyclin-D1. Proteomics of si-HAPLN1, rHAPLN1, and mRNA-Seq analysis of rHAPLN1 confirmed the functions of HAPLN1 in the activation of inflammation, proliferation, cell adhesion, and strengthening of ECM functions. Our results for the first time demonstrate the function of HAPLN1 in promoting the proliferation and pro-inflammatory phenotype of RA-FLSs, thereby contributing to RA pathogenesis. Future in-depth studies are required for better understanding the role of HAPLN1 in RA.
PXD031496	35720307	The Aging Features of Thyrotoxicosis Mice: Malnutrition, Immunosenescence and Lipotoxicity. 	Serum proteome of thyrotoxicosis mice	Mice, Serum, Thyrotoxicosis	The problem of aging is mainly the increase of age-related diseases, and elderly patients have longer hospitalization and worse prognosis. Poorer nutritional status and immunosenescence may be predisposing and severe factors. The mechanism of the high incidence of diseases and poor prognosis behind aging is complex. Finding suitable aging models is of great significance to find strategies to prevent aging related events. In this study, the relationship between thyrotoxicosis and aging was investigated in mice. The results of routine blood tests and flow cytometry showed that immunosenescence occurred in thyrotoxicosis mice, which was characterized by a significant decrease in neutrophils, lymphocytes, CD4+/CD8+ and CD4+IFN-gamma+ lymphocytes. Biochemical examination results showed that there were hypocholesterolemia, hypolipoproteinemia, and hyperlipidemia in thyrotoxicosis mice. Serum proteomics analysis showed that the downregulation of complement and coagulation proteins was another manifestation of declined immunity. Moreover, proteomics analysis showed that many downregulated proteins were related to homeostasis, mainly transport proteins. Their downregulation led to the disturbance of osmotic pressure, ion homeostasis, vitamin utilization, lipid transport, hyaluronic acid processing, and pH maintenance. Serum metabolomics analysis provided more detailed evidence of homeostasis disturbance, especially lipid metabolism disorder, including the downregulation of cholesterol, vitamin D, bile acids, docosanoids, and the upregulation of glucocorticoids, triglycerides, sphingolipids, and free fatty acids. The upregulated lipid metabolites were related to lipotoxicity, which might be one cause of immunosenescence and many aging related syndromes. This study provides evidence for the aging model of thyrotoxicosis mice, which can be used for exploring anti-aging drugs and strategies.
PXD025041	35720415	Correlation Analysis Between Trace Elements and Colorectal Cancer Metabolism by Integrated Serum Proteome and Metabolome. 	Molecular characterization of advanced colorectal cancer using serum proteomics and metabolomics	UPLC/Q-TOF-MS/MS, biomarker, colorectal cancer, correlation analysis, nanoLC/Q-TOF-MS/MS	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is currently the third most common cancer with a high mortality rate. The underlying molecular mechanism of CRC, especially advanced CRC, remains poorly understood, resulting in few available therapeutic plans. To expand our knowledge of the molecular characteristics of advanced CRC and explore possible new therapeutic strategies, we herein conducted integrated proteomics and metabolomics analyses of 40 serum samples collected from 20 advanced CRC patients before and after treatment. The mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis was performed under data-independent acquisition (DIA), and the metabolomics analysis was performed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled with time-of-flight tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-TOF-MS/MS). Trace elements including Mg, Zn, and Fe were measured by inductively coupled plasma spectrometry (ICP-MS) analysis. Four of the 20 patients had progressive disease (PD) after treatment, and clinical test results indicated that they all had impaired liver functions. In the proteomics analysis, 64 proteins were discovered to be significantly altered after treatment. These proteins were enriched in cancer-related pathways and pathways participating immune responses, such as MAPK signaling pathway and complement/coagulation cascades. In the metabolomics analysis, 128 metabolites were found to be significantly changed after treatment, and most of them are enriched in pathways associated with lipid metabolism. The cholesterol metabolism pathway was significantly enriched in both the proteomics and metabolomics pathway enrichment analyses. The concentrations of Mg in the serums of CRC patients were significantly lower than those in healthy individuals, which returned to the normal range after treatment. Correlation analysis linked key lipids, proteins, and Mg as immune modulators in the development of advanced CRC. The results of this study not only extended our knowledge on the molecular basis of advanced CRC but also provided potential novel therapeutic targets for CRC treatment.
PXD033185	35720596	Tandem Mass Tag-Based Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Implication of a Late Embryogenesis Abundant Protein (BnLEA57) in Seed Oil Accumulation in Brassica napus L. 	TMT-Based Quantitative Proteomics Reveals Implication of a Late Embryogenesis Abundant Protein (BnLEA57) In Seed Oil Accumulation in Brassica napus L.	Brassica napus, LEA protein, TMT, late embryogenesis abundant protein, oil content, quantitative proteomics, rapeseed, seeds	Enhancing oil content is one of the major goals in Brassica napus breeding; however, genetic regulation of seed oil content in plants is complex and not fully elucidated. In this study, we report proteins that were differentially accumulated in immature seeds of 35 days after anthesis between two recombinant inbred lines with contrasting seed oil content, high oil content line (HOCL) and low oil content line (LOCL) using a multiplex isobaric tandem mass tags (TMT)-based quantitative proteomic approach. Over 4,600 proteins were quantified in seeds of the two lines, and 342 proteins showed differential accumulation between seeds of HOCL and LOCL. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis revealed that the differentially accumulated proteins were enriched in proteins involved in lipid biosynthesis and metabolism, photosynthesis, and nutrient reservoir activity. Western blot confirmed the increased abundance of a late embryogenesis abundant protein (BnLEA57) in HOCL seeds compared with LOCL seeds, and overexpression of either BnLEA57 gene or its homology BnLEA55 in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana enhanced oil content in Arabidopsis seeds. Our work provides new insights into the molecular regulatory mechanism of seed oil content in B. napus.
PXD031385	35721505	Prolyl Isomerization-Mediated Conformational Changes Define ATR Subcellular Compartment-Specific Functions. 	Human serine/threonine protein kinase ATR LC-MS/MS	ATR, BH3-like domain, Biotin modification, Mass protein footprinting, cis/trans prolyl isomerization	ATR is a PI3K-like kinase protein, regulating checkpoint responses to DNA damage and replication stress. Apart from its checkpoint function in the nucleus, ATR actively engages in an antiapoptotic role at mitochondria following DNA damage. The different functions of ATR in the nucleus and cytoplasm are carried out by two prolyl isomeric forms of ATR: trans- and cis-ATR, respectively. The isomerization occurs at the Pin1 Ser428-Pro429 motif of ATR. Here, we investigated the structural basis of the subcellular location-specific functions of human ATR. Using a mass spectrometry-based footprinting approach, the surface accessibility of ATR lysine residues to sulfo-NHS-LC-biotin modification was monitored and compared between the cis- and the trans-isomers. We have identified two biotin-modified lysine residues, K459 and K469, within the BH3-like domain of cis-ATR that were not accessible in trans-ATR, indicating a conformational change around the BH3 domain between cis- and trans-ATR. The conformational alteration also involved the N-terminal domain and the middle HEAT domain. Moreover, experimental results from an array of complementary assays show that cis-ATR with the accessible BH3 domain was able to bind to tBid while trans-ATR could not. In addition, both cis- and trans-ATR can directly form homodimers via their C-terminal domains without ATRIP, while nuclear (trans-ATR) in the presence of ATRIP forms dimer-dimer complexes involving both N- and C-termini of ATR and ATRIP after UV. Structural characteristics around the Ser428-Pro429 motif and the BH3 domain region are also analyzed by molecular modeling and dynamics simulation. In support, cis conformation was found to be significantly more energetically favorable than trans at the Ser428-Pro429 bond in a 20-aa wild-type ATR peptide. Taken together, our results suggest that the isomerization-induced structural changes of ATR define both its subcellular location and compartment-specific functions and play an essential role in promoting cell survival and DNA damage responses.
PXD033865	35723178	29-Plex tandem mass tag mass spectrometry enabling accurate quantification by interference correction. 	29-Plex Tandem Mass Tag Mass Spectrometry Enabling Accurate Quantification by Interference Correction	data processing, interference, liquid chromatography, ratio compression, tandem mass tag	Tandem mass tag (TMT) mass spectrometry is a mainstream isobaric chemical labeling strategy for profiling proteomes. Here we present a 29-plex TMT method to combine the 11-plex and 18-plex labeling strategies. The 29-plex method was examined with a pooled sample composed of 1x, 3x, and 10x Escherichia coli peptides with 100x human background peptides, which generated two E. coli datasets (TMT11 and TMT18), displaying the distorted ratios of 1.0:1.7:4.2 and 1.0:1.8:4.9, respectively. This ratio compression from the expected 1:3:10 ratios was caused by co-isolated TMT-labeled ions (i.e., noise). Interestingly, the mixture of two TMT sets produced MS/MS spectra with unique features for the noise detection: (i) in TMT11-labeled spectra, TMT18-specific reporter ions (e.g., 135N) were shown as the noise; (ii) in TMT18-labeled spectra, the TMT11/TMT18-shared reporter ions (e.g., 131C) typically exhibited higher intensities than TMT18-specific reporter ions, due to contaminated TMT11-labeled ions in these shared channels. We further estimated the noise levels contributed by both TMT11- and TMT18-labeled peptides, and corrected reporter ion intensities in every spectrum. Finally, the anticipated 1:3:10 ratios were largely restored. This strategy was also validated using another 29-plex sample with 1:5 ratios. Thus the 29-plex method expands the TMT throughput and enhances the quantitative accuracy.
PXD033447	35723257	ERG activity is regulated by endothelial FAK coupling with TRIM25/USP9x in vascular patterning. 	ERG activity is regulated by endothelial FAK coupling with TRIM25/USP9x in vascular patterning	FAK, HUVEC, RIME	Precise vascular patterning is crucial for normal growth and development. The ERG transcription factor drives Delta-like ligand 4 (DLL4)/Notch signalling and is thought to act as a pivotal regulator of endothelial cell (EC) dynamics and developmental angiogenesis. However, molecular regulation of ERG activity remains obscure. Using a series of EC-specific focal adhesion kinase (FAK)-knockout (KO) and point-mutant FAK-knock-in mice, we show that loss of ECFAK, its kinase activity or phosphorylation at FAK-Y397, but not FAK-Y861, reduces ERG and DLL4 expression levels together with concomitant aberrations in vascular patterning. Rapid immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry of endogenous proteins identified that endothelial nuclear-FAK interacts with the deubiquitinase USP9x and the ubiquitin ligase TRIM25. Further in silico analysis confirms that ERG interacts with USP9x and TRIM25. Moreover, ERG levels are reduced in FAKKO ECs via a ubiquitin-mediated post-translational modification programme involving USP9x and TRIM25. Re-expression of ERG in vivo and in vitro rescues the aberrant vessel-sprouting defects observed in the absence of ECFAK. Our findings identify ECFAK as a regulator of retinal vascular patterning by controlling ERG protein degradation via TRIM25/USP9x.
PXD029599	35723325	Doxycycline Alters the Porcine Renal Proteome and Degradome during Hypothermic Machine Perfusion. 	Doxycycline alters porcine renal proteome and degradome during hypothermic machine perfusion	Renal transplantation, ischemia/reperfusion injury, machine perfusion	Ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI) is a hallmark for tissue injury in donation after circulatory death (DCD) kidneys. The implementation of hypothermic machine perfusion (HMP) provides a platform for improved preservation of DCD kidneys. Doxycycline administration has shown protective effects during IRI. Therefore, we explored the impact of doxycycline on proteolytic degradation mechanisms and the urinary proteome of perfused kidney grafts. Porcine kidneys underwent 30 min of warm ischemia, 24 h of oxygenated HMP (control/doxycycline) and 240 min of ex vivo reperfusion. A proteomic analysis revealed distinctive clustering profiles between urine samples collected at T15 min and T240 min. High-efficiency undecanal-based N-termini (HUNTER) kidney tissue degradomics revealed significantly more proteolytic activity in the control group at T-10. At T240, significantly more proteolytic activity was observed in the doxycycline group, indicating that doxycycline alters protein degradation during HMP. In conclusion, doxycycline administration during HMP led to significant proteomic and proteolytic differences and protective effects by attenuating urinary NGAL levels. Ultimately, we unraveled metabolic, and complement and coagulation pathways that undergo alterations during machine perfusion and that could be targeted to attenuate IRI induced injury.
PXD032968	35723663	NAD kinase promotes Staphylococcus aureus pathogenesis by supporting production of virulence factors and protective enzymes. 	NAD kinase promotes Staphylococcus aureus pathogenesis by supporting production of virulence factors and protective enzymes	Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide kinase, Staphylococcus aureus	Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) is the primary electron donor for reductive reactions that are essential for the biosynthesis of major cell components in all organisms. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide kinase (NADK) is the only enzyme that catalyzes the synthesis of NADP(H) from NAD(H). While the enzymatic properties and physiological functions of NADK have been thoroughly studied, the role of NADK in bacterial pathogenesis remains unknown. Here, we used CRISPR interference to knock down NADK gene expression to address the role of this enzyme in Staphylococcus aureus pathogenic potential. We find that NADK inhibition drastically decreases mortality of zebrafish infected with S. aureus. Furthermore, we show that NADK promotes S. aureus survival in infected macrophages by protecting bacteria from antimicrobial defense mechanisms. Proteome-wide data analysis revealed that production of major virulence-associated factors is sustained by NADK. We demonstrate that NADK is required for expression of the quorum-sensing response regulator AgrA, which controls critical S. aureus virulence determinants. These findings support a key role for NADK in bacteria survival within innate immune cells and the host during infection.
PXD031321	35725601	Calpain cleavage of Junctophilin-2 generates a spectrum of calcium-dependent cleavage products and DNA-rich NT1-fragment domains in cardiomyocytes. 	Calpain Cleavage of Junctophilin-2 generates a Spectrum of Calcium-dependent Cleavage Products and DNA-rich NT1-Fragment Domains in Cardiomyocytes	Calcium, Calpain, Cardiomyocyte, Junctophilin, Ryanodine	Calpains are calcium-activated neutral proteases involved in the regulation of key signaling pathways. Junctophilin-2 (JP2) is a Calpain-specific proteolytic target and essential structural protein inside Ca(2+) release units required for excitation-contraction coupling in cardiomyocytes. While downregulation of JP2 by Calpain cleavage in heart failure has been reported, the precise molecular identity of the Calpain cleavage sites and the (patho-)physiological roles of the JP2 proteolytic products remain controversial. We systematically analyzed the JP2 cleavage fragments as function of Calpain-1 versus Calpain-2 proteolytic activities, revealing that both Calpain isoforms preferentially cleave mouse JP2 at R565, but subsequently at three additional secondary Calpain cleavage sites. Moreover, we identified the Calpain-specific primary cleavage products for the first time in human iPSC-derived cardiomyocytes. Knockout of RyR2 in hiPSC-cardiomyocytes destabilized JP2 resulting in an increase of the Calpain-specific cleavage fragments. The primary N-terminal cleavage product NT1 accumulated in the nucleus of mouse and human cardiomyocytes in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner, closely associated with euchromatic chromosomal regions, where NT1 is proposed to function as a cardio-protective transcriptional regulator in heart failure. Taken together, our data suggest that stabilizing NT1 by preventing secondary cleavage events by Calpain and other proteases could be an important therapeutic target for future studies.
PXD024995	35725833	Revealing the human mucinome. 	Revealing the human cancer-associated mucinome	O-glycosylation, cancer, glycoproteomics, mucin, mucinase, mucinome	Mucin domains are densely O-glycosylated modular protein domains found in various extracellular and transmembrane proteins. Mucin-domain glycoproteins play important roles in many human diseases, such as cancer and cystic fibrosis, but the scope of the mucinome remains poorly defined. Recently, we characterized a bacterial O-glycoprotease, StcE, and demonstrated that an inactive point mutant retains binding selectivity for mucin-domain glycoproteins. In this work, we leverage inactive StcE to selectively enrich and identify mucin-domain glycoproteins from complex samples like cell lysate and crude ovarian cancer patient ascites fluid. Our enrichment strategy is further aided by an algorithm to assign confidence to mucin-domain glycoprotein identifications. This mucinomics platform facilitates detection of hundreds of glycopeptides from mucin domains and highly overlapping populations of mucin-domain glycoproteins from ovarian cancer patients. Ultimately, we demonstrate our mucinomics approach can reveal key molecular signatures of cancer from in vitro and ex vivo sources.
PXD026341	35728063	CPT2 K79 acetylation regulates platelet life span. 	Acetylated proteomic identification of stored platelets	Acetylation, SIRT3, Stored platelets	The short life span of platelets is a major challenge to platelet transfusion services because of the lack of effective intervention. Here, we found that the accumulation of long-chain acylcarnitines (LCACs) is responsible for mitochondrial damage and platelet storage lesion. Further studies showed that the blockade of fatty acid oxidation and the activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)/acetyl-CoA carboxylase/carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1 (CPT1) pathways that promote fatty acid metabolism are important reasons for the accumulation of LCACs. The excessive accumulation of LCACs can cause mitochondrial damage and a short life span of stored platelets. The mechanism study elucidated that NAD+ exhaustion and the subsequent decrease in sirtuin 3 (Sirt3) activity caused an increase in the level of CPT2 K79 acetylation, which is the primary cause of the blockade of fatty acid oxidation and the accumulation of LCACs. Blocking LCAC generation with the inhibitors of AMPK or CPT1, the agonists of Sirt3, and antioxidants tremendously retarded platelet storage lesion in vitro and prolonged the survival of stored platelets in vivo posttransfusion with single or combined use. In summary, we discovered that CPT2 acetylation attenuates fatty acid oxidation and exacerbates platelet storage lesion and may serve as a new target for improving platelet storage quality.
PXD031463	35731833	The AMA1-RON complex drives Plasmodium sporozoite invasion in the mosquito and mammalian hosts. 	The AMA1-RON complex drives Plasmodium sporozoite invasion in the mosquito and mammalian hosts	AMA1, Plasmodium, RONs., malaria, sporozoites	Plasmodium sporozoites that are transmitted by blood-feeding female Anopheles mosquitoes invade hepatocytes for an initial round of intracellular replication, leading to the release of merozoites that invade and multiply within red blood cells. Sporozoites and merozoites share a number of proteins that are expressed by both stages, including the Apical Membrane Antigen 1 (AMA1) and the Rhoptry Neck Proteins (RONs). Although AMA1 and RONs are essential for merozoite invasion of erythrocytes during asexual blood stage replication of the parasite, their function in sporozoites was still unclear. Here we show that AMA1 interacts with RONs in mature sporozoites. By using DiCre-mediated conditional gene deletion in P. berghei, we demonstrate that loss of AMA1, RON2 or RON4 in sporozoites impairs colonization of the mosquito salivary glands and invasion of mammalian hepatocytes, without affecting transcellular parasite migration. Three-dimensional electron microscopy data showed that sporozoites enter salivary gland cells through a ring-like structure and by forming a transient vacuole. The absence of a functional AMA1-RON complex led to an altered morphology of the entry junction, associated with epithelial cell damage. Our data establish that AMA1 and RONs facilitate host cell invasion across Plasmodium invasive stages, and suggest that sporozoites use the AMA1-RON complex to efficiently and safely enter the mosquito salivary glands to ensure successful parasite transmission. These results open up the possibility of targeting the AMA1-RON complex for transmission-blocking antimalarial strategies.
PXD022754	35731890	CKS1 inhibition depletes leukemic stem cells and protects healthy hematopoietic stem cells in acute myeloid leukemia. 	CKS1-dependent proteostatic regulation has dual roles in combating acute myeloid leukemia whilst protecting normal hematopoiesis	AML, CKS1, Chemotherapy, Hematopoiesis, Protein degradation, Proteostasis	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive hematological disorder comprising a hierarchy of quiescent leukemic stem cells (LSCs) and proliferating blasts with limited self-renewal ability. AML has a dismal prognosis, with extremely low 2-year survival rates in the poorest cytogenetic risk patients, primarily due to the failure of intensive chemotherapy protocols to deplete LSCs and toxicity of therapy toward healthy hematopoietic cells. We studied the role of cyclin-dependent kinase regulatory subunit 1 (CKS1)-dependent protein degradation in primary human AML and healthy hematopoiesis xenograft models in vivo. Using a small-molecule inhibitor (CKS1i), we demonstrate a dual role for CKS1-dependent protein degradation in reducing patient-derived AML blasts in vivo and, importantly, depleting LSCs, whereas inhibition of CKS1 has the opposite effect on normal hematopoiesis, protecting normal hematopoietic stem cells from chemotherapeutic toxicity. Proteomic analysis of responses to CKS1i in our patient-derived xenograft mouse model demonstrate that inhibition of CKS1 in AML leads to hyperactivation of RAC1 and accumulation of lethal reactive oxygen species, whereas healthy hematopoietic cells enter quiescence in response to CKS1i, protecting hematopoietic stem cells. Together, these findings demonstrate that CKS1-dependent proteostasis is a key vulnerability in malignant stem cell biology.
PXD017487	35732120	Oxidative stress from DGAT1 oncoprotein inhibition in melanoma suppresses tumor growth when ROS defenses are also breached. 	DGAT1 phosphoproteome and long-term proteome	DGAT1 melanoma A229500 A375	Dysregulated cellular metabolism is a cancer hallmark for which few druggable oncoprotein targets have been identified. Increased fatty acid (FA) acquisition allows cancer cells to meet their heightened membrane biogenesis, bioenergy, and signaling needs. Excess FAs are toxic to non-transformed cells but surprisingly not to cancer cells. Molecules underlying this cancer adaptation may provide alternative drug targets. Here, we demonstrate that diacylglycerol O-acyltransferase 1 (DGAT1), an enzyme integral to triacylglyceride synthesis and lipid droplet formation, is frequently up-regulated in melanoma, allowing melanoma cells to tolerate excess FA. DGAT1 over-expression alone transforms p53-mutant zebrafish melanocytes and co-operates with oncogenic BRAF or NRAS for more rapid melanoma formation. Antagonism of DGAT1 induces oxidative stress in melanoma cells, which adapt by up-regulating cellular reactive oxygen species defenses. We show that inhibiting both DGAT1 and superoxide dismutase 1 profoundly suppress tumor growth through eliciting intolerable oxidative stress.
PXD030715	35732128	Activation of STAT3 through combined SRC and EGFR signaling drives resistance to a mitotic kinesin inhibitor in glioblastoma. 	Activation of STAT3 through SRC and EGFR Drives Resistance to a Mitotic Kinesin Inhibitor in Glioblastoma	Glioblastoma, phosphotyrosine, therapeutic resistance	Inhibitors of the mitotic kinesin Kif11 are anti-mitotics that, unlike vinca alkaloids or taxanes, do not disrupt microtubules and are not neurotoxic. However, development of resistance has limited their clinical utility. While resistance to Kif11 inhibitors in other cell types is due to mechanisms that prevent these drugs from disrupting mitosis, we find that in glioblastoma (GBM), resistance to the Kif11 inhibitor ispinesib works instead through suppression of apoptosis driven by activation of STAT3. This form of resistance requires dual phosphorylation of STAT3 residues Y705 and S727, mediated by SRC and epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), respectively. Simultaneously inhibiting SRC and EGFR reverses this resistance, and combined targeting of these two kinases in vivo with clinically available inhibitors is synergistic and significantly prolongs survival in ispinesib-treated GBM-bearing mice. We thus identify a translationally actionable approach to overcoming Kif11 inhibitor resistance that may work to block STAT3-driven resistance against other anti-cancer therapies as well.
PXD031148	35732148	Phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors enhance chemotherapy in preclinical models of esophageal adenocarcinoma by targeting cancer-associated fibroblasts. 	Modulation of the tumor promoting functions of cancer associated fibroblasts by PDE5 inhibition	LC-MS, TMT	The chemotherapy resistance of esophageal adenocarcinomas (EACs) is underpinned by cancer cell extrinsic mechanisms of the tumor microenvironment (TME). We demonstrate that, by targeting the tumor-promoting functions of the predominant TME cell type, cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) with phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (PDE5i), we can enhance the efficacy of standard-of-care chemotherapy. In ex vivo conditions, PDE5i prevent the transdifferentiation of normal fibroblasts to CAF and abolish the tumor-promoting function of established EAC CAFs. Using shotgun proteomics and single-cell RNA-seq, we reveal PDE5i-specific regulation of pathways related to fibroblast activation and tumor promotion. Finally, we confirm the efficacy of PDE5i in combination with chemotherapy in close-to-patient and in vivo PDX-based model systems. These findings demonstrate that CAFs drive chemotherapy resistance in EACs and can be targeted by repurposing PDE5i, a safe and well-tolerated class of drug administered to millions of patients world-wide to treat erectile dysfunction.
PXD033790	35732269	A fast and sensitive absolute quantification assay for the detection of SARS-CoV-2 peptides using parallel reaction monitoring mass spectrometry. 	SARS-CoV-2 PRM-MS Assay with Clinical Patient Samples	COVID-19, LC-MS, PRM, SARS-CoV-2, parallel reaction monitoring	The on-going SARS-CoV-2 (COVID-19) pandemic has called for an urgent need for rapid and high-throughput methods for mass testing and early detection, prevention as well as surveillance of the disease. We investigated whether targeted parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) quantification using high resolution Orbitrap instruments can provide the sensitivity and speed required for a high-throughput method that could be used for clinical diagnosis. We developed a high-throughput and sensitive PRM-MS assay that enables absolute quantification of SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid peptides with short turn-around times by using isotopically labelled synthetic SARS-CoV-2 concatenated peptides. We established a fast and high-throughput S-trap-based sample preparation method and utilized it for testing 25 positive and 25 negative heat-inactivated clinical nasopharyngeal swab samples for SARS-CoV-2 detection. The method was able to differentiate between negative and some of the positive patients with high viral load. Moreover, based on the absolute quantification calculations, our data show that patients with Ct values as low as 17.8 correspond to NCAP protein amounts of around 7.5 pmol in swab samples. The present high-throughput method could potentially be utilized in specialized clinics as an alternative tool for detection of SARS-CoV-2 but will require enrichment of viral proteins in order to compete with RT-qPCR.
PXD026771	35732639	Chronic inhibition of the mitochondrial ATP synthase in skeletal muscle triggers sarcoplasmic reticulum distress and tubular aggregates. 	Skeletal muscle wt and OXPHOS inhibited 18 months-old mice	Skeletal muscle soleus gastronecmius mice oxphos tubular agregate myopathy	Tubular aggregates (TA) are honeycomb-like arrays of sarcoplasmic-reticulum (SR) tubules affecting aged glycolytic fibers of male individuals and inducing severe sarcomere disorganization and muscular pain. TA develop in skeletal muscle from Tubular Aggregate Myopathy (TAM) patients as well as in other disorders including endocrine syndromes, diabetes, and ageing, being their primary cause unknown. Nowadays, there is no cure for TA. Intriguingly, both hypoxia and calcium dyshomeostasis prompt TA formation, pointing to a possible role for mitochondria in their setting. However, a functional link between mitochondrial dysfunctions and TA remains unknown. Herein, we investigate the alteration in muscle-proteome of TAM patients, the molecular mechanism of TA onset and a potential therapy in a preclinical mouse model of the disease. We show that in vivo chronic inhibition of the mitochondrial ATP synthase in muscle causes TA. Upon long-term restrained oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), oxidative soleus experiments a metabolic and structural switch towards glycolytic fibers, increases mitochondrial fission, and activates mitophagy to recycle damaged mitochondria. TA result from the overresponse of the fission controller DRP1, that upregulates the Store-Operate-Calcium-Entry and increases the mitochondria-SR interaction in a futile attempt to buffer calcium overloads upon prolonged OXPHOS inhibition. Accordingly, hypoxic muscles cultured ex vivo show an increase in mitochondria/SR contact sites and autophagic/mitophagic zones, where TA clusters grow around defective mitochondria. Moreover, hypoxia triggered a stronger TA formation upon ATP synthase inhibition, and this effect was reduced by the DRP1 inhibitor mDIVI. Remarkably, the muscle proteome of TAM patients displays similar alterations in mitochondrial dynamics and in ATP synthase contents. In vivo edaravone treatment in mice with restrained OXPHOS restored a healthy phenotype by prompting mitogenesis and mitochondrial fusion. Altogether, our data provide a functional link between the ATP synthase/DRP1 axis and the setting of TA, and repurpose edaravone as a possible treatment for TA-associated disorders.
PXD028678	35732702	SILAC kinase screen identifies potential MASTL substrates. 	In Cellulo Kinase Screen Identifies Novel MASTL Substrates	AGC kinase, AKT, MASTL, SILAC, kinase, phospho-peptides	Microtubule-associated serine/threonine kinase-like (MASTL) has emerged as a critical regulator of mitosis and as a potential oncogene in a variety of cancer types. To date, Arpp-19/ENSA are the only known substrates of MASTL. However, with the roles of MASTL expanding and increased interest in development of MASTL inhibitors, it has become critical to determine if there are additional substrates and what the optimal consensus motif for MASTL is. Here we utilized a whole cell lysate in vitro kinase screen combined with stable isotope labelling of amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) to identify potential substrates and the residue preference of MASTL. Using the related AGC kinase family members AKT1/2, the kinase screen identified several known and new substrates highly enriched for the validated consensus motif of AKT. Applying this method to MASTL identified 59 phospho-sites on 67 proteins that increased in the presence of active MASTL. Subsequent in vitro kinase assays suggested that MASTL may phosphorylate hnRNPM, YB1 and TUBA1C under certain in vitro conditions. Taken together, these data suggest that MASTL may phosphorylate several additional substrates, providing insight into the ever-increasing biological functions and roles MASTL plays in driving cancer progression and therapy resistance.
PXD022533	35732783	SubCellBarCode: integrated workflow for robust spatial proteomics by mass spectrometry. 	SubCellBarCode: Integrated workflow for robust classification and visualization of spatial proteome	Classification, Protein localization, Subcellular fractionation, Visualization	The molecular functions of a protein are defined by its inherent properties in relation to its environment and interaction network. Within a cell, this environment and network are defined by the subcellular location of the protein. Consequently, it is crucial to know the localization of a protein to fully understand its functions. Recently, we have developed a mass spectrometry- (MS) and bioinformatics-based pipeline to generate a proteome-wide resource for protein subcellular localization across multiple human cancer cell lines ( www.subcellbarcode.org ). Here, we present a detailed wet-lab protocol spanning from subcellular fractionation to MS-sample preparation and analysis. A key feature of this protocol is that it includes all generated cell fractions without discarding any material during the fractionation process. We also describe the subsequent quantitative MS-data analysis, machine learning-based classification, differential localization analysis and visualization of the output. For broad applicability, we evaluated the pipeline by using MS data generated by two different peptide pre-fractionation approaches, namely high-resolution isoelectric focusing and high-pH reverse-phase fractionation, as well as direct analysis without pre-fractionation by using long-gradient liquid chromatography-MS. Moreover, an R package covering the dry-lab part of the method was developed and made available through Bioconductor. The method is straightforward and robust, and the entire protocol, from cell harvest to classification output, can be performed within 1-2 weeks. The protocol enables accurate classification of proteins to 15 compartments and 4 neighborhoods, visualization of the output data and differential localization analysis including treatment-induced protein relocalization, condition-dependent localization or cell type-specific localization. The SubCellBarCode package is freely available at https://bioconductor.org/packages/devel/bioc/html/SubCellBarCode.html .
PXD032992	35732922	CEND1 deficiency induces mitochondrial dysfunction and cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease. 	5xFAD mitochondrial Data-independent acquisition	mitochondrial	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of neurodegenerative disease featured with memory loss and cognitive function impairments. Chronic mitochondrial stress is a vital pathogenic factor for AD and finally leads to massive neuronal death. However, the underlying mechanism is unclear. By proteomic analysis, we identified a new mitochondrial protein, cell-cycle exit and neuronal differentiation 1 (CEND1), which was decreased significantly in the brain of 5xFAD mice. CEND1 is a neuronal specific protein and locates in the presynaptic mitochondria. Depletion of CEND1 leads to increased mitochondrial fission mediated by upregulation of dynamin related protein 1 (Drp1), resulting in abnormal mitochondrial functions. CEND1 deficiency leads to cognitive impairments in mice. Overexpression of CEND1 in the hippocampus of 5xFAD mice rescued cognitive deficits. Moreover, we identified that CDK5/p25 interacted with and phosphorylated CEND1 which promoted its degradation. Our study provides new mechanistic insights in mitochondrial function regulations by CEND1 in Alzheimer's disease.
PXD031258	35733138	miR-2682-3p antagonizes its host lncRNA-MIR137HG by interacting with the same target FUS to regulate the progression of gastric cancer. 	human, gastric cancer line, LC-MSMS	gastric cancer line	BACKGROUND: The mechanism of long non-coding RNA MIR137HG in human gastric cancer (GC) is currently unknown. In the present study, we aimed to explore the function and mechanism of MIR137HG in gastric cancer. METHODS: The expression of lncRNA-MIR137HG in 69 gastric cancer samples and their paired surgical margin (SM) tissue samples were tested by QRT-PCR. UCSC was used to find the gene location relationship among MIR137HG and its embedded miRNAs. TargetScan was used to predict the targets of miR-2682-3p. Starbase was used to predict the candidate proteins that interacted with MIR137HG. Western blot, co-focus, and RIP assay were used to verify the direct interaction between MIR137HG and FUS (fused in sarcoma/translocated in liposarcoma, FUS/TLS), while dual-luciferase reporter assay was used to confirm the interaction between miR-2682-3p and FUS. Cell migration assays, colony formation, and xenografts assay were used to investigate the function of MIR137HG and miR-2682-3p to tumor growth and metastasis. Western blot assay was used to explore the downstream candidate protein of FUS. RESULTS: Data showed that MIR137HG expressed significantly higher in GC than in SM. MIR137HG promoted colony formation and migration in vitro and promoted tumor formation and metastasis in vivo. MIR137HG is distributed in both the nucleus and cytoplasm. It was co-located with FUS and could directly interact with FUS, which might interact with other proteins, such as MET(MET-proto-oncogene, receptor tyrosine kinase), RHOC(ras homolog family member), and CTNNB1(catenin beta1). These proteins may involve different signaling pathways to regulate gastric cancer progression. By contrast, the embedded miR-2682-3p could antagonize the series functions of its host lncRNA-MIR137HG by targeting FUS. CONCLUSIONS: lncRNA-MIR137HG promoted growth and metastasis in gastric cancer by interacting with FUS, while miR-2682-3p could inhibit the function of MIR137HG via the same target FUS.
PXD030479	35733178	Potential biomarkers of spinal dural arteriovenous fistula: C4BPA and C1QA. 	venous hypertensive myelopathy LC-MS/MS	SDAVF, venous hypertensive myelopathy	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: A major challenge in spinal dural arteriovenous fistula (SDAVF) is timely diagnosis, but no specific predictive biomarkers are known. METHODS: In the discovery cohort (case, n = 8 vs. control, n = 8), we used cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and paired plasma samples to identify differentially expressed proteins by label-free quantitative proteomics. Further bioinformatics enrichment analyses were performed to screen target proteins. Finally, it was validated by ELISA in two of the new cohorts (case, n = 17 vs. control, n = 9), and univariate analysis, simple linear regression, and receiver operator characteristic (ROC) curve analysis were performed to evaluate the diagnostic potential. RESULTS: In the discovery cohort, the most overexpressed proteins were APOB and C4BPA in CSF samples of patients. The GO/KEGG enrichment analysis indicated that the upregulated proteins were mainly involved in the acute inflammatory response and complement activation. Hub-gene analysis revealed that APP might be the key protein in the molecular interaction network. In the validation cohort, C4BPA and C1QA were significantly overexpressed in the CSF of patients, averaging 3046.9 ng/ml and 2167.2 ng/ml, respectively. Simple linear regression demonstrated that levels of C1QA and C4 were positively correlated with total protein in CSF (R(2) = 0.8021, p = 0.0005; R(2) = 0.7447, p = 0.0013). The areas under the ROC curves of C4BPA and C1QA were 0.86 and 1.00, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: This study was the first to identify C4BPA and C1QA as potential biomarkers for the diagnosis of SDAVF and revealed that complement pathway activation might be one of the molecular mechanisms for venous hypertension myelopathy.
PXD032158	35734164	Exploration of the Nurse Shark (Ginglymostoma cirratum) Plasma Immunoproteome Using High-Resolution LC-MS/MS. 	Exploration of the nurse shark (Ginglymostoma cirratum) plasma immunoproteome using high-throughput LC-MS/MS	Nurse shark, immunoproteome, plasma	Many animals of scientific importance lack species-specific reagents (e.g., monoclonal antibodies) for in-depth studies of immune proteins. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics has emerged as a useful method for monitoring changes in protein abundance and modifications in non-model species. It can be used to quantify hundreds of candidate immune molecules simultaneously without the generation of new reagents. Here, we used MS-based proteomics to identify and quantify candidate immune proteins in the plasma of the nurse shark (Ginglymostoma cirratum), a cartilaginous fish and representative of the most basal extant vertebrate lineage with an immunoglobulin-based immune system. Mass spectrometry-based LC-MS/MS was performed on the blood plasma of nurse sharks immunized with human serum albumin (n=4) or sham immunized (n=1), and sampled at days 0 (baseline control), 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, 14, 21, 28, 25, 42 and 49. An antigen-specific antibody response was experimentally confirmed post-immunization. To provide a high-quality reference to identify proteins, we assembled and annotated a multi-tissue de novo transcriptome integrating long- and short-read sequence data. This comprised 62,682 contigs containing open reading frames (ORFs) with a length >80 amino acids. Using this transcriptome, we reliably identified 626 plasma proteins which were broadly categorized into coagulation, immune, and metabolic functional groups. To assess the feasibility of performing LC-MS/MS proteomics in nurse shark in the absence of species-specific protein annotations, we compared the results to an alternative strategy, mapping peptides to proteins predicted in the genome assembly of a related species, the whale shark (Rhincodon typus). This approach reliably identified 297 proteins, indicating that useful data on the plasma proteome may be obtained in many instances despite the absence of a species-specific reference protein database. Among the plasma proteins defined against the nurse shark transcriptome, fifteen showed consistent changes in abundance across the immunized shark individuals, indicating a role in the immune response. These included alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M) and a novel protein yet to be characterized in diverse vertebrate lineages. Overall, this study enhances genetic and protein-level resources for nurse shark research and vastly improves our understanding of the elasmobranch plasma proteome, including its remodelling following immune stimulation.
PXD032206	35735975	Phosphoproteomic and Metabolomic Profiling Uncovers the Roles of CcPmk1 in the Pathogenicity of Cytospora chrysosperma. 	Cytospora chrysosperma wild type and CcPmk1 deletion mutant LC-MS/MS	CcPmk1, Cytospora chrysosperma	Pmk1, a highly conserved pathogenicity-related mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in pathogenic fungi, is phosphorylated and activated by MAP2K and acts as a global regulator of fungal infection and invasive growth by modulating downstream targets. However, the hierarchical CcPmk1 regulatory network in Cytospora chrysosperma, the main causal agent of canker disease in many woody plant species, is still unclear. In this study, we analyzed and compared the phosphoproteomes and metabolomes of DeltaCcPmk1 and wild-type strains and identified pathogenicity-related downstream targets of CcPmk1. We found that CcPmk1 could interact with the downstream homeobox transcription factor CcSte12 and affect its phosphorylation. In addition, the DeltaCcSte12 displayed defective phenotypes that were similar to yet not identical to that of the DeltaCcPmk1 and included significantly reduced fungal growth, conidiation, and virulence. Remarkably, CcPmk1 could phosphorylate proteins translated from a putative secondary metabolism-related gene cluster, which is specific to C. chrysosperma, and the phosphorylation of several peptides was completely abolished in the DeltaCcPmk1. Functional analysis of the core gene (CcPpns1) in this gene cluster revealed its essential roles in fungal growth and virulence. Metabolomic analysis showed that amino acid metabolism and biosynthesis of secondary metabolites, lipids, and lipid-like molecules significantly differed between wild type and DeltaCcPmk1. Importantly, most of the annotated lipids and lipid-like molecules were significantly downregulated in the DeltaCcPmk1 compared to the wild type. Collectively, these findings suggest that CcPmk1 may regulate a small number of downstream master regulators to control fungal growth, conidiation, and virulence in C. chrysosperma. IMPORTANCE Understanding the pathogenic mechanisms of plant pathogens is a prerequisite to developing effective disease-control methods. The Pmk1 MAPK is highly conserved among phytopathogenic fungi and acts as a global regulator of fungal pathogenicity by modulating downstream transcription factors or other components. However, the regulatory network of CcPmk1 from C. chrysosperma remains enigmatic. The present data provide evidence that the core pathogenicity regulator CcPmk1 modulates a few downstream master regulators to control fungal virulence in C. chrysosperma through transcription or phosphorylation and that CcPmk1 may be a potential target for disease control.
PXD024763	35736244	A novel, essential trans-splicing protein connects the nematode SL1 snRNP to the CBC-ARS2 complex. 	Molecular characterisation of the SL1 snRNP and other factors involved in spliced leader trans-splicing in the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans using immunoprecipitation and LC-MS/MS.	RNA processing, nematode, small nuclear ribonucleoproteins	Spliced leader trans-splicing is essential for gene expression in many eukaryotes. To elucidate the molecular mechanism of this process, we characterise the molecules associated with the Caenorhabditis elegans major spliced leader snRNP (SL1 snRNP), which donates the spliced leader that replaces the 5' untranslated region of most pre-mRNAs. Using a GFP-tagged version of the SL1 snRNP protein SNA-1 created by CRISPR-mediated genome engineering, we immunoprecipitate and identify RNAs and protein components by RIP-Seq and mass spectrometry. This reveals the composition of the SL1 snRNP and identifies associations with spliceosome components PRP-8 and PRP-19. Significantly, we identify a novel, nematode-specific protein required for SL1 trans-splicing, which we designate SNA-3. SNA-3 is an essential, nuclear protein with three NADAR domains whose function is unknown. Mutation of key residues in NADAR domains inactivates the protein, indicating that domain function is required for activity. SNA-3 interacts with the CBC-ARS2 complex and other factors involved in RNA metabolism, including SUT-1 protein, through RNA or protein-mediated contacts revealed by yeast two-hybrid assays, localisation studies and immunoprecipitations. Our data are compatible with a role for SNA-3 in coordinating trans-splicing with target pre-mRNA transcription or in the processing of the Y-branch product of the trans-splicing reaction.
PXD032313	35736799	A Comparison of Blood Plasma Small Extracellular Vesicle Enrichment Strategies for Proteomic Analysis. 	A comparison of blood plasma exosome enrichment strategies for proteomic analysis.	Exosome, enrichment, extracellular vesicles, isolation, mass-spectrometry, size-exclusion chromatography, ultracentrifugation, ultrafiltration	Proteomic analysis of small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) poses a significant challenge. A 'gold-standard' method for plasma sEV enrichment for downstream proteomic analysis is yet to be established. Methods were evaluated for their capacity to successfully isolate and enrich sEVs from plasma, minimise the presence of highly abundant plasma proteins, and result in the optimum representation of sEV proteins by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. Plasma from four cattle (Bos taurus) of similar physical attributes and genetics were used. Three methods of sEV enrichment were utilised: ultracentrifugation (UC), size-exclusion chromatography (SEC), and ultrafiltration (UF). These methods were combined to create four groups for methodological evaluation: UC + SEC, UC + SEC + UF, SEC + UC and SEC + UF. The UC + SEC method yielded the highest number of protein identifications (IDs). The SEC + UC method reduced plasma protein IDs compared to the other methods, but also resulted in the lowest number of protein IDs overall. The UC + SEC + UF method decreased sEV protein ID, particle number, mean and mode particle size, particle yield, and did not improve purity compared to the UC + SEC method. In this study, the UC + SEC method was the best method for sEV protein ID, purity, and overall particle yield. Our data suggest that the method and sequence of sEV enrichment strategy impacts protein ID, which may influence the outcome of biomarker discovery studies.
PXD031877	35738400	Insights into the structural dynamics and helicase-catalyzed unfolding of plant RNA G-quadruplexes. 	plant RNA G-quadruplexe proteomics screening	helicase, plant RNA G-quadruplex	RNA G-quadruplexes (rG4s) are noncanonical RNA secondary structures formed by guanine (G)-rich sequences. These complexes play important regulatory roles in both animals and plants through their structural dynamics and are closely related to human diseases and plant growth, development, and adaption. Thus, studying the structural dynamics of rG4s is fundamentally important; however, their folding pathways and their unfolding by specialized helicases are not well understood. In addition, no plant rG4-specialized helicases have been identified. Here, using single-molecule FRET, we experimentally elucidated for the first time the folding pathway and intermediates, including a G-hairpin and G-triplex. In addition, using proteomics screening and microscale thermophoresis, we identified and validated five rG4-specialized helicases in Arabidopsis thaliana. Furthermore, DExH1, the ortholog of the famous human rG4 helicase RHAU/DHX36, stood out for its robust rG4 unwinding ability. Taken together, these results shed light on the structural dynamics of plant rG4s.
PXD031597	35738527	Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis of the mechanism of salt stress promoting selenium enrichment in Lactobacillus rhamnosus. 	Label-free Quantitative Proteomic analysis of the mechanism of salt stress promoting selenium enrichment in Lactobacillus rhamnosus	Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Selenium, gene, mechanism	Lactobacillus rhamnosus can metabolize selenite into organic selenium and Se(0). In this paper, label-free quantitative proteomics was applied to explore the mechanism of salt stress promoting selenium enrichment of L.rhamnosus. 397 proteins were up-regulated and 147 proteins were down-regulated of selenium-enriched L.rhamnosus under salt stress. The differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were mainly involved in metabolism, membrane transport and genetic information processing. The results of quantitative real-time PCR showed that gene opuA, metN, trxR and ldh of Se-enriched L.rhamnosus with salt stress were significantly up-regulated. However, the expression levels of gene luxS, groEL, dnaK and pgk were down-regulated. It was indicated that L.rhamnosus promoted part of amino acids combining with selenium into selenoamino acids with salt stress. Secondly, sodium chloride stimulated the expression of key enzymes involved in metabolism to provide energy for the process of Se-enrichment. In addition, NaCl induced the expression of enzymes and genes involved in the synthesis of selenoproteins. SIGNIFICANCE: It was indicated that L.rhamnosus promoted part of amino acids combining with selenium into selenoamino acids with salt stress. Secondly, sodium chloride stimulated the expression of key enzymes involved in metabolism to provide energy for the process of Se-enrichment. In addition, NaCl induced the expression of enzymes and genes involved in the synthesis of selenoproteins.
PXD030588	35739093	CB1R-stabilized NLRP3 inflammasome drives antipsychotics cardiotoxicity. 	Antipsychotic cardiotoxicity and its mechanisms	antipsychotics, cardiotoxicity, pyroptosis	Long-term use of antipsychotics is a common cause of myocardial injury and even sudden cardiac deaths that often lead to drug withdrawn or discontinuation. Mechanisms underlying antipsychotics cardiotoxicity remain largely unknown. Herein we performed RNA sequencing and found that NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated pyroptosis contributed predominantly to multiple antipsychotics cardiotoxicity. Pyroptosis-based small-molecule compound screen identified cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1R) as an upstream regulator of the NLRP3 inflammasome. Mechanistically, antipsychotics competitively bond to the CB1R and led to CB1R translocation to the cytoplasm, where CB1R directly interacted with NLRP3 inflammasome via amino acid residues 177-209, rendering stabilization of the inflammasome. Knockout of Cb1r significantly alleviated antipsychotic-induced cardiomyocyte pyroptosis and cardiotoxicity. Multi-organ-based investigation revealed no additional toxicity of newer CB1R antagonists. In authentic human cases, the expression of CB1R and NLRP3 inflammasome positively correlated with antipsychotics-induced cardiotoxicity. These results suggest that CB1R is a potent regulator of the NLRP3 inflammsome-mediated pyroptosis and small-molecule inhibitors targeting the CB1R/NLRP3 signaling represent attractive approaches to rescue cardiac side effects of antipsychotics.
PXD024397	35739140	Palaeoproteomics guidelines to identify proteinaceous binders in artworks following the study of a 15th-century painting by Sandro Botticelli's workshop. 	Palaeoproteomic identification of binders in a 15th-century panel painting by Sandro Botticelli's workshop	cultural heritage, paint binders, palaeoproteomics	Undertaking the conservation of artworks informed by the results of molecular analyses has gained growing importance over the last decades, and today it can take advantage of state-of-the-art analytical techniques, such as mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Protein-based binders are among the most common organic materials used in artworks, having been used in their production for centuries. However, the applications of proteomics to these materials are still limited. In this work, a palaeoproteomic workflow was successfully tested on paint reconstructions, and subsequently applied to micro-samples from a 15th-century panel painting, attributed to the workshop of Sandro Botticelli. This method allowed the confident identification of the protein-based binders and their biological origin, as well as the discrimination of the binder used in the ground and paint layers of the painting. These results show that the approach is accurate, highly sensitive, and broadly applicable in the cultural heritage field, due to the limited amount of starting material required. Accordingly, a set of guidelines are suggested, covering the main steps of the data analysis and interpretation of protein sequencing results, optimised for artworks.
PXD033900	35739187	Most mitochondrial dGTP is tightly bound to respiratory complex I through the NDUFA10 subunit. 	Identification of dGTP-interacting mitochondrial proteins by affinity purification and LC-ESI-MS/MS	Mitochondria, dGTP, pull-down	Imbalanced mitochondrial dNTP pools are known players in the pathogenesis of multiple human diseases. Here we show that, even under physiological conditions, dGTP is largely overrepresented among other dNTPs in mitochondria of mouse tissues and human cultured cells. In addition, a vast majority of mitochondrial dGTP is tightly bound to NDUFA10, an accessory subunit of complex I of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. NDUFA10 shares a deoxyribonucleoside kinase (dNK) domain with deoxyribonucleoside kinases in the nucleotide salvage pathway, though no specific function beyond stabilizing the complex I holoenzyme has been described for this subunit. We mutated the dNK domain of NDUFA10 in human HEK-293T cells while preserving complex I assembly and activity. The NDUFA10(E160A/R161A) shows reduced dGTP binding capacity in vitro and leads to a 50% reduction in mitochondrial dGTP content, proving that most dGTP is directly bound to the dNK domain of NDUFA10. This interaction may represent a hitherto unknown mechanism regulating mitochondrial dNTP availability and linking oxidative metabolism to DNA maintenance.
PXD026606	35739571	Functional changes of the gastric bypass microbiota reactivate thermogenic adipose tissue and systemic glucose control via intestinal FXR-TGR5 crosstalk in diet-induced obesity. 	Fecal Transplant from Roux-Y-Gastric-Bypass rat model into a diet induced obesity rat model	Metaproteomics, Roux-Y-Gastric Bypass surgery, anti-biotics, microbiome, obesity, rat	BACKGROUND: Bariatric surgery remains the most effective therapy for adiposity reduction and remission of type 2 diabetes. Although different bariatric procedures associate with pronounced shifts in the gut microbiota, their functional role in the regulation of energetic and metabolic benefits achieved with the surgery are not clear. METHODS: To evaluate the causal as well as the inherent therapeutic character of the surgery-altered gut microbiome in improved energy and metabolic control in diet-induced obesity, an antibiotic cocktail was used to eliminate the gut microbiota in diet-induced obese rats after gastric bypass surgery, and gastric bypass-shaped gut microbiota was transplanted into obese littermates. Thorough metabolic profiling was combined with omics technologies on samples collected from cecum and plasma to identify adaptions in gut microbiota-host signaling, which control improved energy balance and metabolic profile after surgery. RESULTS: In this study, we first demonstrate that depletion of the gut microbiota largely reversed the beneficial effects of gastric bypass surgery on negative energy balance and improved glucolipid metabolism. Further, we show that the gastric bypass-shaped gut microbiota reduces adiposity in diet-induced obese recipients by re-activating energy expenditure from metabolic active brown adipose tissue. These beneficial effects were linked to improved glucose homeostasis, lipid control, and improved fatty liver disease. Mechanistically, these effects were triggered by modulation of taurine metabolism by the gastric bypass gut microbiota, fostering an increased abundance of intestinal and circulating taurine-conjugated bile acid species. In turn, these bile acids activated gut-restricted FXR and systemic TGR5 signaling to stimulate adaptive thermogenesis. CONCLUSION: Our results establish the role of the gut microbiome in the weight loss and metabolic success of gastric bypass surgery. We here identify a signaling cascade that entails altered bile acid receptor signaling resulting from a collective, hitherto undescribed change in the metabolic activity of a cluster of bacteria, thereby readjusting energy imbalance and metabolic disease in the obese host. These findings strengthen the rationale for microbiota-targeted strategies to improve and refine current therapies of obesity and metabolic syndrome. Video Abstract Bariatric Surgery (i.e. RYGB) or the repeated fecal microbiota transfer (FMT) from RYGB donors into DIO (diet-induced obesity) animals induces shifts in the intestinal microbiome, an effect that can be impaired by oral application of antibiotics (ABx). Our current study shows that RYGB-dependent alterations in the intestinal microbiome result in an increase in the luminal and systemic pool of Taurine-conjugated Bile acids (TCBAs) by various cellular mechanisms acting in the intestine and the liver. TCBAs induce signaling via two different receptors, farnesoid X receptor (FXR, specifically in the intestines) and the G-protein-coupled bile acid receptor TGR5 (systemically), finally resulting in metabolic improvement and advanced weight management. BSH, bile salt hydrolase; BAT brown adipose tissue.
PXD032370	35739994	The Combined Partial Knockdown of CBS and MPST Genes Induces Inflammation, Impairs Adipocyte Function-Related Gene Expression and Disrupts Protein Persulfidation in Human Adipocytes. 	Dual CBS and MPST gene knockdown induces inflammation and impairs adipogenesis in human adipocytes	Human adipocytes, adipogenesis, inflammation, protein persulfidation.	Recent studies in mice and humans demonstrated the relevance of H2S synthesising enzymes, such as CTH, CBS, and MPST, in the physiology of adipose tissue and the differentiation of preadipocyte into adipocytes. Here, our objective was to investigate the combined role of CTH, CBS, and MPST in the preservation of adipocyte protein persulfidation and adipogenesis. Combined partial CTH, CBS, and MPST gene knockdown was achieved treating fully human adipocytes with siRNAs against these transcripts (siRNA_MIX). Adipocyte protein persulfidation was analyzed using label-free quantitative mass spectrometry coupled with a dimedone-switch method for protein labeling and purification. Proteomic analysis quantified 216 proteins with statistically different levels of persulfidation in KD cells compared to control adipocytes. In fully differentiated adipocytes, CBS and MPST mRNA and protein levels were abundant, while CTH expression was very low. It is noteworthy that siRNA_MIX administration resulted in a significant decrease in CBS and MPST expression, without impacting on CTH. The combined partial knockdown of the CBS and MPST genes resulted in reduced cellular sulfide levels in parallel to decreased expression of relevant genes for adipocyte biology, including adipogenesis, mitochondrial biogenesis, and lipogenesis, but increased proinflammatory- and senescence-related genes. It should be noted that the combined partial knockdown of CBS and MPST genes also led to a significant disruption in the persulfidation pattern of the adipocyte proteins. Although among the less persulfidated proteins, we identified several relevant proteins for adipocyte adipogenesis and function, among the most persulfidated, key mediators of adipocyte inflammation and dysfunction as well as some proteins that might play a positive role in adipogenesis were found. In conclusion, the current study indicates that the combined partial elimination of CBS and MPST (but not CTH) in adipocytes affects the expression of genes related to the maintenance of adipocyte function and promotes inflammation, possibly by altering the pattern of protein persulfidation in these cells, suggesting that these enzymes were required for the functional maintenance of adipocytes.
PXD033684	35740029	Polyphenols and IUGR Pregnancies: Effects of the Antioxidant Hydroxytyrosol on the Hippocampus Proteome in a Porcine Model. 	Polyphenols and IUGR Pregnancies: Effects of the Antioxidant Hydroxytyrosol on the Hippocampus Proteome in a Porcine Model	Hydroxytyrosol, TMT labelling, brain, hippocampus, intrauterine growth restriction, pig	Supplementation of a mother's diet with antioxidants such as hydroxytyrosol (HTX) has been proposed to ameliorate the adverse phenotypes of foetuses affected by intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR). Our previous studies showed, in a porcine model of IUGR, an effect of maternal HTX supplementation on the neurotransmitter profile of several brain areas and the morphology of the hippocampus in 100 days old foetuses. The present study analyzed the impact of maternal HTX supplementation on the hippocampus proteome at this foetal age by TMT10plex labelling. Eleven differentially abundant proteins were identified by comparing both conditions, and eight of them downregulated and three upregulated in the HTX-treated group. The downregulated proteins were mainly involved in protein synthesis and RNA metabolism and may explain the differences in neuron differentiation in the HTX-treated group. The upregulated proteins were related to cell detoxification and could represent a potential mechanism to explain the neuroprotective effect of HTX.
PXD033910	35740417	Murine Falcor/LL35 lncRNA Contributes to Glucose and Lipid Metabolism In Vitro and In Vivo. 	Elucidation of the role of murine lncRNA LL35 in hepatocytes by LC-MSMS	AML12 cells, murine lncRNA LL35	Glucose and lipid metabolism are crucial functional systems in eukaryotes. A large number of experimental studies both in animal models and humans have shown that long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) play an important role in glucose and lipid metabolism. Previously, human lncRNA DEANR1/linc00261 was described as a tumor suppressor that regulates a variety of biological processes such as cell proliferation, apoptosis, glucose metabolism and tumorigenesis. Here we report that murine lncRNA Falcor/LL35, a proposed functional analog of human DEANR1/linc00261, is predominantly expressed in murine normal hepatocytes and downregulated in HCC and after partial hepatectomy. The application of high-throughput approaches such as RNA-seq, LC-MS proteomics, lipidomics and metabolomics analysis allowed changes to be found in the transcriptome, proteome, lipidome and metabolome of hepatocytes after LL35 depletion. We revealed that LL35 is involved in the regulation of glycolysis and lipid biosynthesis in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, LL35 affects Notch and NF-kappaB signaling pathways in normal hepatocytes. All observed changes result in the decrease in the proliferation and migration of hepatocytes. We demonstrated similar phenotype changes between murine LL35 and human linc00261 depletion in vitro and in vivo that opens the opportunity to translate results for LL35 from a liver murine model to possible functions of human lncRNA linc00261.
PXD031637	35740573	Proteomic Profiling Identifies Co-Regulated Expression of Splicing Factors as a Characteristic Feature of Intravenous Leiomyomatosis. 	Proteomic profiling identifies co-regulated expression of splicing factors as a characteristic feature of intravenous leiomyomatosis	FFPE tissue, SWATH-MS, TripleTOF 5600+	Intravenous leiomyomatosis (IVLM) is a rare benign smooth muscle tumour that is characterised by intravenous growth in the uterine and pelvic veins. Previous DNA copy number and transcriptomic studies have shown that IVLM harbors unique genomic and transcriptomic alterations when compared to uterine leiomyoma (uLM), which may account for their distinct clinical behaviour. Here we undertake the first comparative proteomic analysis of IVLM and other smooth muscle tumours (comprising uLM, soft tissue leiomyoma and benign metastasizing leiomyoma) utilising data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. We show that, at the protein level, IVLM is defined by the unique co-regulated expression of splicing factors. In particular, IVLM is enriched in two clusters composed of co-regulated proteins from the hnRNP, LSm, SR and Sm classes of the spliceosome complex. One of these clusters (Cluster 3) is associated with key biological processes including nascent protein translocation and cell signalling by small GTPases. Taken together, our study provides evidence of co-regulated expression of splicing factors in IVLM compared to other smooth muscle tumours, which suggests a possible role for alternative splicing in the pathogenesis of IVLM.
PXD028355	35741067	CFTR Rescue by Lumacaftor (VX-809) Induces an Extensive Reorganization of Mitochondria in the Cystic Fibrosis Bronchial Epithelium. 	THE PHARMACOLOGICAL RESCUE OF CFTR BY LUMACAFTOR (VX-809) IN THE CYSTIC FIBROSIS BRONCHIAL EPITHELIUM IS ASSOCIATED WITH AN EXTENSIVE REORGANIZATION OF MITOCHONDRIA.	CFBE41o- cells, Cystic Fibrosis, VX-809	BACKGROUND: Cystic Fibrosis (CF) is a genetic disorder affecting around 1 in every 3000 newborns. In the most common mutation, F508del, the defective anion channel, CFTR, is prevented from reaching the plasma membrane (PM) by the quality check control of the cell. Little is known about how CFTR pharmacological rescue impacts the cell proteome. METHODS: We used high-resolution mass spectrometry, differential ultracentrifugation, machine learning and bioinformatics to investigate both changes in the expression and localization of the human bronchial epithelium CF model (F508del-CFTR CFBE41o-) proteome following treatment with VX-809 (Lumacaftor), a drug able to improve the trafficking of CFTR. RESULTS: The data suggested no stark changes in protein expression, yet subtle localization changes of proteins of the mitochondria and peroxisomes were detected. We then used high-content confocal microscopy to further investigate the morphological and compositional changes of peroxisomes and mitochondria under these conditions, as well as in patient-derived primary cells. We profiled several thousand proteins and we determined the subcellular localization data for around 5000 of them using the LOPIT-DC spatial proteomics protocol. CONCLUSIONS: We observed that treatment with VX-809 induces extensive structural and functional remodelling of mitochondria and peroxisomes that resemble the phenotype of healthy cells. Our data suggest additional rescue mechanisms of VX-809 beyond the correction of aberrant folding of F508del-CFTR and subsequent trafficking to the PM.
PXD028098	35741076	Quantitative Succinyl-Proteome Profiling of Turnip (Brassica rapa var. rapa) in Response to Cadmium Stress. 	Turnip succinylation modification	Succinylation, Turnip	Protein post-translational modification (PTM) is an efficient biological mechanism to regulate protein structure and function, but its role in plant responses to heavy metal stress is poorly understood. The present study performed quantitative succinyl-proteome profiling using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis to explore the potential roles of lysine succinylation modification in turnip seedlings in response to cadmium (Cd) stress (20 muM) under hydroponic conditions over a short time period (0-8 h). A total of 547 succinylated sites on 256 proteins were identified in the shoots of turnip seedlings. These succinylated proteins participated in various biological processes (e.g., photosynthesis, tricarboxylic acid cycle, amino acid metabolism, and response to stimulation) that occurred in diverse cellular compartments according to the functional classification, subcellular localization, and protein interaction network analysis. Quantitative analysis showed that the intensities of nine succinylation sites on eight proteins were significantly altered (p < 0.05) in turnip shoots after 8 h of Cd stress. These differentially succinylated sites were highly conserved in Brassicaceae species and mostly located in the conserved domains of the proteins. Among them, a downregulated succinylation site (K150) in the glycolate oxidase protein (Gene0282600.1), an upregulated succinylation site (K396) in the catalase 3 protein (Gene0163880.1), and a downregulated succinylation site (K197) in the glutathione S-transferase protein (Gene0315380.1) may have contributed to the altered activity of the corresponding enzymes, which suggests that lysine succinylation affects the Cd detoxification process in turnip by regulating the H2O2 accumulation and glutathione metabolism. These results provide novel insights into understanding Cd response mechanisms in plants and important protein modification information for the molecular-assisted breeding of Brassica varieties with distinct Cd tolerance and accumulation capacities.
PXD026333	35741222	Urine Proteome in Distinguishing Hepatic Steatosis in Patients with Metabolic-Associated Fatty Liver Disease. 	Urine proteome in patients with metabolic associated fatty liver disease	hepatic steatosis, metabolic associated fatty liver disease	Background: In patients with metabolic-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD), hepatic steatosis is the first step of diagnosis, and it is a risk predictor that independently predicts insulin resistance, cardiovascular risk, and mortality. Urine biomarkers have the advantage of being less complex, with a lower dynamic range and fewer technical challenges, in comparison to blood biomarkers. Methods: Hepatic steatosis was measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which measured the proton density fat fraction (MRI-PDFF). Mild hepatic steatosis was defined as MRI-PDFF 5-10% and severe hepatic steatosis was defined as MRI-PDFF > 10%. Results: MAFLD patients with any kidney diseases were excluded. There were 53 proteins identified by mass spectrometry with significantly different expressions among the healthy control, mild steatosis, and severe steatosis patients. Gene Ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses of these significantly changed urinary molecular features correlated with the liver, resulting in the dysregulation of carbohydrate derivative/catabolic/glycosaminoglycan/metabolic processes, insulin-like growth factor receptor levels, inflammatory responses, the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway, and cholesterol metabolism. Urine alpha-1-acid glycoprotein 1 (ORM1) and ceruloplasmin showed the most significant correlation with the clinical parameters of MAFLD status, including liver fat content, fibrosis, ALT, triglycerides, glucose, HOMA-IR, and C-reactive protein. According to ELISA and western blot (30 urine samples, normalized to urine creatinine), ceruloplasmin (ROC 0.78, p = 0.034) and ORM1 (ROC 0.87, p = 0.005) showed moderate diagnostic accuracy in distinguishing mild steatosis from healthy controls. Ceruloplasmin (ROC 0.79, p = 0.028) and ORM1 (ROC 0.81, p = 0.019) also showed moderate diagnostic accuracy in distinguishing severe steatosis from mild steatosis. Conclusions: Ceruloplasmin and ORM1 are potential biomarkers in distinguishing mild and severe steatosis in MAFLD patients.
PXD032898	35741576	A Quantitative Proteomic Approach Explores the Possible Mechanisms by Which the Small Molecule Stemazole Promotes the Survival of Human Neural Stem Cells. 	The protein profiles of neural stem cells	human neural stem cells, quantitative proteomics, stemazole	Neurodegenerative disorders have become a serious healthcare problem worldwide and there is no efficacious cure. However, regulating the fate of stem cells is an effective way to treat these neurological diseases. In previous work, stemazole was reported to maintain the survival of human neural stem cells in the absence of growth factors and to have therapeutic effects on neurodegenerative diseases. However, although it is a promising small molecule, the molecular mechanisms against apoptosis are ambiguous. In this study, tandem mass tag (TMT)-based proteomics were performed to obtain whole protein expression profiles of human neural stem cells in different groups under extreme conditions. Bioinformatics analysis based on protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, gene ontology (GO) and the Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis were adopted to explore crucial proteins and possible pharmacological mechanisms. A total of 77 differentially expressed proteins were identified, comprising 38 upregulated proteins and 39 downregulated proteins. Combined with a diseases database of Alzheimer's disease (AD), caspase-2 (CASP2), PKA C-alpha (PRKACA), fibronectin (FN1), large neutral amino acid transporter small subunit 1 (SLC7A5), which are involved in cell proliferation and apoptosis, this was further validated by enzyme activity assay and molecular docking, and regarded as putative targets regulated by stemazole. The present results give an insight into this small molecule and a better understanding for further elucidating the underlying mechanisms in the treatment of stem cells and neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD032902	35742860	Combining Recombinase-Mediated Cassette Exchange Strategy with Quantitative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Analyses to Inspect Intracellular Functions of the Tumor Suppressor Galectin-4 in Colorectal Cancer Cells. 	Combining recombinase-mediated cassette exchange strategy with quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses to inspect intracellular functions of the tumor supressor galectin-4 in colorectal cancer cells.	Colorectal Cancer, Galectin	Galectin-4 (Gal4) has been suggested to function as a tumor suppressor in colorectal cancer (CRC). In order to systematically explore its function in CRC, we established a CRC cell line where Gal4 expression can be regulated via the doxycycline (dox)-inducible expression of a single copy wildtype LGALS4 transgene generated by recombinase-mediated cassette exchange (RMCE). Using this model and applying in-depth proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses, we systematically screened for intracellular changes induced by Gal4 expression. Overall, 3083 cellular proteins and 2071 phosphosites were identified and quantified, of which 1603 could be matched and normalized to their protein expression levels. A bioinformatic analysis revealed that most of the regulated proteins and phosphosites can be localized in the nucleus and are categorized as nucleic acid-binding proteins. The top candidates whose expression was modulated by Gal4 are PURB, MAPKAPK3, BTF3 and BCAR1, while the prime candidates with altered phosphorylation included ZBTB7A, FOXK1, PURB and CK2beta. In order to validate the (phospho)proteomic data, we confirmed these candidates by a radiometric metabolic-labelling and immunoprecipitation strategy. All candidates exert functions in the transcriptional or translational control, indicating that Gal4 might be involved in these processes by affecting the expression or activity of these proteins.
PXD033499	35742863	Proteome of Staphylococcus aureus Biofilm Changes Significantly with Aging. 	Proteome of Staphylococcus aureus biofilm changes signifi-cantly with aging	Staphylococcus aureus, TMT, aging, biofilms, biosynthetic processes, metabolic processes, stress responses., transport systems	Staphylococcus aureus is a notorious biofilm-producing pathogen that is frequently isolated from implantable medical device infections. As biofilm ages, it becomes more tolerant to antimicrobial treatment leading to treatment failure and necessitating the costly removal of infected devices. In this study, we performed in-solution digestion followed by TMT-based high-throughput mass spectrometry and investigated what changes occur in the proteome of S. aureus biofilm grown for 3-days and 12-days in comparison with 24 h planktonic. It showed that proteins associated with biosynthetic processes, ABC transporter pathway, virulence proteins, and shikimate kinase pathway were significantly upregulated in a 3-day biofilm, while proteins associated with sugar transporter, degradation, and stress response were downregulated. Interestingly, in a 3-day biofilm, we observed numerous proteins involved in the central metabolism pathways which could lead to biofilm growth under diverse environments by providing an alternative metabolic route to utilize energy. In 12-day biofilms, proteins associated with peptidoglycan biosynthesis, sugar transporters, and stress responses were upregulated, whereas proteins associated with ABC transporters, DNA replication, and adhesion proteins were downregulated. Gene Ontology analysis revealed that more proteins are involved in metabolic processes in 3dwb compared with 12dwb. Furthermore, we observed significant variations in the formation of biofilms resulting from changes in the level of metabolic activity in the different growth modes of biofilms that could be a significant factor in S. aureus biofilm maturation and persistence. Collectively, potential marker proteins were identified and further characterized to understand their exact role in S. aureus biofilm development, which may shed light on possible new therapeutic regimes in the treatment of biofilm-related implant-associated infections.
PXD053222	35742945	Integrative Proteome and Phosphoproteome Profiling of Early Cold Response in Maize Seedlings. 	DIA-based deep proteome and phosphoproteome profiling of early cold response in tomato fruits	Cold, Data-independent acquisition, Phosphoproteome, Tomato, fruit	Cold limits the growth and yield of maize in temperate regions, but the molecular mechanism of cold adaptation remains largely unexplored in maize. To identify early molecular events during cold shock, maize seedlings were treated under 4 degreesC for 30 min and 2 h, and analyzed at both the proteome and phosphoproteome levels. Over 8500 proteins and 19,300 phosphopeptides were quantified. About 660 and 620 proteins were cold responsive at protein abundance or site-specific phosphorylation levels, but only 65 proteins were shared between them. Functional enrichment analysis of cold-responsive proteins and phosphoproteins revealed that early cold response in maize is associated with photosynthesis light reaction, spliceosome, endocytosis, and defense response, consistent with similar studies in Arabidopsis. Thirty-two photosynthesis proteins were down-regulated at protein levels, and 48 spliceosome proteins were altered at site-specific phosphorylation levels. Thirty-one kinases and 33 transcriptional factors were cold responsive at protein, phosphopeptide, or site-specific phosphorylation levels. Our results showed that maize seedlings respond to cold shock rapidly, at both the proteome and phosphoproteome levels. This study provides a comprehensive landscape at the cold-responsive proteome and phosphoproteome in maize seedlings that can be a significant resource to understand how C4 plants respond to a sudden temperature drop.
PXD014363	35743217	Molecular Mechanisms of Phenylpropane-Synthesis-Related Genes Regulating the Shoot Blight Resistance of Bambusa pervariabilis x Dendrocalamopsis grandis. 	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis with TMT Markers	TMT-labeled quantitative proteomics	Bambusa pervariabilis x Dendrocalamopsis grandis shoot blight caused by Arthrinium phaeospermum is a fungal disease that has affected a large area in China in recent years. However, it is not clear which genes are responsible for the disease resistance of B. pervariabilis x D. grandis. Based on the analysis of transcriptome and proteome data, two genes, CCoAOMT2 and CAD5, which may be involved in disease resistance, were screened. Two gene expression-interfering varieties, COF RNAi and CAD RNAi were successfully obtained using RNAi technology. Quantitative real-time fluorescence (qRT-PCR) results showed that CCoAOMT2 gene, CAD5 gene and seven related genes expression was down-regulated in the transformed varieties. After inoculating pathogen spore suspension, the incidence and disease index of cof-RNAi and cad-RNAi transformed plants increased significantly. At the same time, it was found that the content of total lignin and flavonoids in the two transformed varieties were significantly lower than that of the wild-type. The subcellular localization results showed that both CCoAOMT2 and CAD5 were localized in the nucleus and cytoplasm. The above results confirm that the CCoAOMT2 and CAD5 genes are involved in the resistance of B. pervariabilis x D.grandis to shoot blight through regulating the synthesis of lignin and flavonoids.
PXD032214	35743314	Adaptation of Oxidative Phosphorylation Machinery Compensates for Hepatic Lipotoxicity in Early Stages of MAFLD. 	Adaption of oxidative phosphorylation machinery compensates hepatic lipotoxicity in early stages of MAFLD	MAFLD, isolated hepatocytes, mitochondrial function	Alterations in mitochondrial function are an important control variable in the progression of metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD), while also noted by increased de novo lipogenesis (DNL) and hepatic insulin resistance. We hypothesized that the organization and function of a mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) in this pathologic condition is a consequence of shifted substrate availability. We addressed this question using a transgenic mouse model with increased hepatic insulin resistance and DNL due to constitutively active human SREBP-1c. The abundance of ETC complex subunits and components of key metabolic pathways are regulated in the liver of these animals. Further omics approaches combined with functional assays in isolated liver mitochondria and primary hepatocytes revealed that the SREBP-1c-forced fatty liver induced a substrate limitation for oxidative phosphorylation, inducing enhanced complex II activity. The observed increased expression of mitochondrial genes may have indicated a counteraction. In conclusion, a shift of available substrates directed toward activated DNL results in increased electron flows, mainly through complex II, to compensate for the increased energy demand of the cell. The reorganization of key compounds in energy metabolism observed in the SREBP-1c animal model might explain the initial increase in mitochondrial function observed in the early stages of human MAFLD.
PXD033544	35743829	The Highest Density of Phosphorylated Histone H1 Appeared in Prophase and Prometaphase in Parallel with Reduced H3K9me3, and HDAC1 Depletion Increased H1.2/H1.3 and H1.4 Serine 38 Phosphorylation. 	Phosphorylation status of histone H1 in mouse embryonic stem cells	embryonic stem cells, histone H1, phosphorylation	BACKGROUND: Variants of linker histone H1 are tissue-specific and are responsible for chromatin compaction accompanying cell differentiation, mitotic chromosome condensation, and apoptosis. Heterochromatinization, as the main feature of these processes, is also associated with pronounced trimethylation of histones H3 at the lysine 9 position (H3K9me3). METHODS: By confocal microscopy, we analyzed cell cycle-dependent levels and distribution of phosphorylated histone H1 (H1ph) and H3K9me3. By mass spectrometry, we studied post-translational modifications of linker histones. RESULTS: Phosphorylated histone H1, similarly to H3K9me3, has a comparable level in the G1, S, and G2 phases of the cell cycle. A high density of phosphorylated H1 was inside nucleoli of mouse embryonic stem cells (ESCs). H1ph was also abundant in prophase and prometaphase, while H1ph was absent in anaphase and telophase. H3K9me3 surrounded chromosomal DNA in telophase. This histone modification was barely detectable in the early phases of mitosis. Mass spectrometry revealed several ESC-specific phosphorylation sites of H1. HDAC1 depletion did not change H1 acetylation but potentiated phosphorylation of H1.2/H1.3 and H1.4 at serine 38 positions. CONCLUSIONS: Differences in the level and distribution of H1ph and H3K9me3 were revealed during mitotic phases. ESC-specific phosphorylation sites were identified in a linker histone.
PXD033134	35744894	Shotgun Proteomics Revealed Preferential Degradation of Misfolded In Vivo Obligate GroE Substrates by Lon Protease in Escherichia coli. 	Shotgun Proteomics Revealed Preferential Degradation of Misfolded In Vivo Obligate GroE Substrates by Lon Protease in Escherichia coli	GroEL, Lon protease, Molecular chaperone, Protease, Proteostasis, chaperonin	The Escherichia coli chaperonin GroEL/ES (GroE) is one of the most extensively studied molecular chaperones. So far, ~80 proteins in E. coli are identified as GroE substrates that obligately require GroE for folding in vivo. In GroE-depleted cells, these substrates, when overexpressed, tend to form aggregates, whereas the GroE substrates expressed at low or endogenous levels are degraded, probably due to misfolded states. However, the protease(s) involved in the degradation process has not been identified. We conducted a mass-spectrometry-based proteomics approach to investigate the effects of three ATP-dependent proteases, Lon, ClpXP, and HslUV, on the E. coli proteomes under GroE-depleted conditions. A label-free quantitative proteomic method revealed that Lon protease is the dominant protease that degrades the obligate GroE substrates in the GroE-depleted cells. The deletion of DnaK/DnaJ, the other major E. coli chaperones, in the incrementlon strain did not cause major alterations in the expression or folding of the obligate GroE substrates, supporting the idea that the folding of these substrates is predominantly dependent on GroE.
PXD024776	35745243	Proteomic Analysis of Human Milk Reveals Nutritional and Immune Benefits in the Colostrum from Mothers with COVID-19. 	Proteomic characterization of COVID-19 patient Breast milk	Breast milk, COVID-19, LC/MSMS	Despite the well-known benefits of breastfeeding and the World Health Organization's breastfeeding recommendations for COVID-19 infected mothers, whether these mothers should be encouraged to breastfeed is under debate due to concern about the risk of virus transmission and lack of evidence of breastmilk's protective effects against the virus. Here, we provide a molecular basis for the breastfeeding recommendation through mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics and glycosylation analysis of immune-related proteins in both colostrum and mature breastmilk collected from COVID-19 patients and healthy donors. The total protein amounts in the COVID-19 colostrum group were significantly higher than in the control group. While casein proteins in COVID-19 colostrum exhibited significantly lower abundances, immune-related proteins, especially whey proteins with antiviral properties against SARS-CoV-2, were upregulated. These proteins were detected with unique site-specific glycan structures and improved glycosylation diversity that are beneficial for recognizing epitopes and blocking viral entry. Such adaptive differences in milk from COVID-19 mothers tended to fade in mature milk from the same mothers one month postpartum. These results suggest that feeding infants colostrum from COVID-19 mothers confers both nutritional and immune benefits, and provide molecular-level insights that aid breastmilk feeding decisions in cases of active infection.
PXD017234	35745603	Discovery of a Multifunctional Octapeptide from Lingzhi with Antioxidant and Tyrosinase Inhibitory Activity. 	Proteomics analysis of octapeptide from Lingzhi mushroom with anti-tyrosinase and anti-oxidative activity	anti-oxidative stress, anti-tyrosinase, peptide	Ganoderma lucidum or Lingzhi is a fungus species widely known as a traditional medicine. Exploring the beneficial peptides by hydrolysis using pepsin and trypsin has been extensively performed to identify new bioactive natural products. A multifunctional peptide that expresses potential scavenging activity and tyrosinase inhibition is valuable in therapeutic and cosmetic applications. This study aimed to identify and investigate the effects of a novel multifunctional peptide from Lingzhi on the melanogenic enzymes in melanoma cells by a targeted-proteomics approach. The multifunctional peptide was de novo sequenced by LC-MS/MS to be NH2-PVRSSNCA-CO2H (octapeptide). This sequence was chemically synthesized by solid-phase peptide synthesis (SPPS). The antioxidant ability of the synthesized octapeptide was measured by the DPPH, ABTS, and FRAP assays. The results showed that the peptide exhibited an antioxidant activity equal to 0.121 +/- 0.01 mg equivalent to ascorbic acid, 0.173 +/- 0.03 mg equivalent to gallic acid, and 2.21 +/- 0.23 mM equivalent to FeSO4, respectively, which is comparable to these well-known antioxidants. The proteomics approach identified a total of 5804 proteins and several pathways involved in the effects of the octapeptide in melanoma cells. Targeted proteomics revealed three specific proteins associated with pigmentation including Rab29, Dct, and Tyrp1. The Rab29 and Dct were upregulated whereas Tyrp1 was downregulated in the octapeptide treatment group. These findings could be used in the understanding of the molecular functions of the multifunctional octapeptide on melanogenic enzymes, supporting its potential as a therapeutic and cosmetic ingredient.
PXD034127	35747386	Murine double minute 2 aggravates adipose tissue dysfunction through ubiquitin-mediated six-transmembrane epithelial antigen of prostate 4 degradation. 	The eWAT ubiquitinome of wild type mice and Mdm2 adipocyte-specific knock-in mice fed high-fat diet	High-fat diet, Mdm2, Mice, Ubiquitinome, eWAT	Healthy adipose tissue is crucial to maintain normal energy homeostasis. Little is known about the role of murine double minute 2 (MDM2), an E3 ubiquitin ligase and has been highlighted in oncopathology, in adipose tissue. Our results indicated that MDM2 expression was associated with nutritional status. Mdm2 adipocyte-specific knock-in (Mdm2-AKI) mice exhibited exacerbated weight gain, insulin resistance, and decreased energy expenditure. Meanwhile, chronic high-fat diet (HFD) exposure caused obvious epididymal white adipose tissue (eWAT) dysfunction, such as senescence, apoptosis, and chronic inflammation, thereby leading to hepatic steatosis in Mdm2-AKI mice. Mechanically, MDM2 could interact with six-transmembrane epithelial antigen of prostate 4 (STEAP4) and inhibit STEAP4 expression through ubiquitin-mediated STEAP4 degradation. Thereinto, the K18 and K161 sites of STEAP4 were ubiquitin-modificated by MDM2. Finally, STEAP4 restoration in eWAT of Mdm2-AKI mice on a HFD rescued MDM2-induced adipose dysfunction, insulin resistance, and hepatic steatosis. Summary, the MDM2-STEAP4 axis in eWAT plays an important role in maintaining healthy adipose tissue function and improving hepatic steatosis.
PXD034398	35748870	LncRNA EPR-induced METTL7A1 modulates target gene translation. 	LncRNA EPR-induced METTL7A1 modulates target gene translation	RNA binding protein, lncERNA, translation	EPR is a long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) that controls cell proliferation in mammary gland cells by regulating gene transcription. Here, we report on Mettl7a1 as a direct target of EPR. We show that EPR induces Mettl7a1 transcription by rewiring three-dimensional chromatin interactions at the Mettl7a1 locus. Our data indicate that METTL7A1 contributes to EPR-dependent inhibition of TGF-beta signaling. METTL7A1 is absent in tumorigenic murine mammary gland cells and its human ortholog (METTL7A) is downregulated in breast cancers. Importantly, re-expression of METTL7A1 in 4T1 tumorigenic cells attenuates their transformation potential, with the putative methyltransferase activity of METTL7A1 being dispensable for its biological functions. We found that METTL7A1 localizes in the cytoplasm whereby it interacts with factors implicated in the early steps of mRNA translation, associates with ribosomes, and affects the levels of target proteins without altering mRNA abundance. Overall, our data indicates that METTL7A1-a transcriptional target of EPR-modulates translation of select transcripts.
PXD024251	35750689	Cell surface glycan engineering reveals that matriglycan alone can recapitulate dystroglycan binding and function. 	Cell Surface Glycoengineering - HAP1 Cells	Cell Surface Glycoengineering - HAP1 Cells	alpha-Dystroglycan (alpha-DG) is uniquely modified on O-mannose sites by a repeating disaccharide (-Xylalpha1,3-GlcAbeta1,3-)n termed matriglycan, which is a receptor for laminin-G domain-containing proteins and employed by old-world arenaviruses for infection. Using chemoenzymatically synthesized matriglycans printed as a microarray, we demonstrate length-dependent binding to Laminin, Lassa virus GP1, and the clinically-important antibody IIH6. Utilizing an enzymatic engineering approach, an N-linked glycoprotein was converted into a IIH6-positive Laminin-binding glycoprotein. Engineering of the surface of cells deficient for either alpha-DG or O-mannosylation with matriglycans of sufficient length recovers infection with a Lassa-pseudovirus. Finally, free matriglycan in a dose and length dependent manner inhibits viral infection of wildtype cells. These results indicate that matriglycan alone is necessary and sufficient for IIH6 staining, Laminin and LASV GP1 binding, and Lassa-pseudovirus infection and support a model in which it is a tunable receptor for which increasing chain length enhances ligand-binding capacity.
PXD034577	35750769	Coordination of metal center biogenesis in human cytochrome c oxidase. 	Characterization of the proteome of human cytochrome c oxidase assembly factors - Experiment D	COX11, COX19, PET191, cytochrome c oxidase, mitochondria	Mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) or respiratory chain complex IV is a heme aa3-copper oxygen reductase containing metal centers essential for holo-complex biogenesis and enzymatic function that are assembled by subunit-specific metallochaperones. The enzyme has two copper sites located in the catalytic core subunits. The COX1 subunit harbors the CuB site that tightly associates with heme a3 while the COX2 subunit contains the binuclear CuA site. Here, we report that in human cells the CcO copper chaperones form macromolecular assemblies and cooperate with several twin CX9C proteins to control heme a biosynthesis and coordinate copper transfer sequentially to the CuA and CuB sites. These data on CcO illustrate a mechanism that regulates the biogenesis of macromolecular enzymatic assemblies with several catalytic metal redox centers and prevents the accumulation of cytotoxic reactive assembly intermediates.
PXD025693	35751649	Exposure of Candida parapsilosis to the silver(I) compound SBC3 induces alterations in the proteome and reduced virulence. 	Exposure of Candida parapsilosis to the silver(I) compound SBC3 induces alterations in the proteome inhibiting protein synthesis and reducing virulence	Candida, antimicrobial, silver	The antimicrobial properties of silver have been exploited for many centuries and continue to gain interest in the fight against antimicrobial drug resistance. The broad-spectrum activity and low toxicity of silver have led to its incorporation into a wide range of novel antimicrobial agents, including N-heterocyclic carbene (NHC) complexes. The antimicrobial activity and in vivo efficacy of the NHC silver(I) acetate complex SBC3, derived from 1,3-dibenzyl-4,5-diphenylimidazol-2-ylidene (NHC*), have previously been demonstrated, although the mode(s) of action of SBC3 remains to be fully elucidated. Label-free quantitative proteomics was applied to analyse changes in protein abundance in the pathogenic yeast Candida parapsilosis in response to SBC3 treatment. An increased abundance of proteins associated with detoxification and drug efflux were indicative of a cell stress response, whilst significant decreases in proteins required for protein and amino acid biosynthesis offer potential insight into the growth-inhibitory mechanisms of SBC3. Guided by the proteomic findings and the prolific biofilm and adherence capabilities of C. parapsilosis, our studies have shown the potential of SBC3 in reducing adherence to epithelial cells and biofilm formation and hence decrease fungal virulence.
PXD033872	35753352	Selenoprotein TXNRD3 supports male fertility via the redox regulation of spermatogenesis. 	The selenoprotein TXNRD3 supports male fertility via the redox regulation of spermatogenesis	Thioredoxin glutathione reductase, male fertility, redox control, sperm motility	Thioredoxin/glutathione reductase (TXNRD3) is a selenoprotein composed of thioredoxin reductase and glutaredoxin domains. This NADPH-dependent thiol oxidoreductase evolved through gene duplication within the Txnrd family, is expressed in the testes, and can reduce both thioredoxin and glutathione in vitro; however, the function of this enzyme remains unknown. To characterize the function of TXNRD3 in vivo, we generated a strain of mice bearing deletion of Txnrd3 gene. We show that these Txnrd3 knockout mice are viable and without discernable gross phenotypes, and also that TXNRD3 deficiency leads to fertility impairment in male mice. We found that Txnrd3 knockout animals exhibited a lower fertilization rate in vitro, a sperm movement phenotype, and an altered thiol redox status in sperm cells. Proteomic analyses further revealed a broad range of substrates reduced by TXNRD3 during sperm maturation, presumably as a part of sperm quality control. Taken together, these results show that TXNRD3 plays a critical role in male reproduction via the thiol redox control of spermatogenesis.
PXD034205	35753678	The proteomics of the freshwater pearl powder: Insights from biomineralization to biomedical application. 	Matrix proteins of freshwater pearl powder	freshwater pearl, matrix protein	The freshwater pearl is one kind of valuable organic jewelry and traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). However, the molecular basis of matrix protein in pearl biomineralization and biomedical applications are largely unknown to date. In this study, the matrix proteins of water-soluble matrix, acid-soluble matrix and acid-insoluble matrix from the freshwater seedless pearl powder were detected using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) respectively, and identified against the transcriptomic database of the pearl sac. The results showed that a total of 190 proteins were identified in pearl proteomics, which was divided into eight categories by their potential biomineralization functions. The composition of pearl matrix proteins and the high frequency conserved domains like carbonic anhydrase, von Willebrand factor type A, tyrosinase and chitin binding 2 in protein sequences, implying that the "chitin-silk fibroin gel proteins-acidic macromolecules" model was suitable for description the pearl biomineralization process. Meanwhile, ninety-one of pearl matrix proteins could be classified into seven categories by their potential medical functions including wound healing, osteogenic property, antioxidant activity, neuro-regulation effects, skin lightening effect, anti-inflammatory and anti-apoptotic effects and other immunomodulatory property. In general, these results provided valuable new insights into not only the diversity of pearl matrix protein for mollusc biomineralization, but the molecular basis of pearl matrix proteins responsible for their diverse biological properties in TCM application. SIGNIFICANCE: The significance of this study included the following points.
PXD032041	35754340	Drug-Induced Epigenomic Plasticity Reprograms Circadian Rhythm Regulation to Drive Prostate Cancer toward Androgen Independence. 	Drug-induced epigenomic plasticity reprograms circadian rhythm regulation to drive prostate cancer towards androgen-independence	ARNTL, FOXA1, androgen receptor(AR), enzalutamide, prostate cancer	In prostate cancer, androgen receptor (AR)-targeting agents are very effective in various disease stages. However, therapy resistance inevitably occurs, and little is known about how tumor cells adapt to bypass AR suppression. Here, we performed integrative multiomics analyses on tissues isolated before and after 3 months of AR-targeting enzalutamide monotherapy from patients with high-risk prostate cancer enrolled in a neoadjuvant clinical trial. Transcriptomic analyses demonstrated that AR inhibition drove tumors toward a neuroendocrine-like disease state. Additionally, epigenomic profiling revealed massive enzalutamide-induced reprogramming of pioneer factor FOXA1 from inactive chromatin sites toward active cis-regulatory elements that dictate prosurvival signals. Notably, treatment-induced FOXA1 sites were enriched for the circadian clock component ARNTL. Posttreatment ARNTL levels were associated with patients' clinical outcomes, and ARNTL knockout strongly decreased prostate cancer cell growth. Our data highlight a remarkable cistromic plasticity of FOXA1 following AR-targeted therapy and revealed an acquired dependency on the circadian regulator ARNTL, a novel candidate therapeutic target. SIGNIFICANCE: Understanding how prostate cancers adapt to AR-targeted interventions is critical for identifying novel drug targets to improve the clinical management of treatment-resistant disease. Our study revealed an enzalutamide-induced epigenomic plasticity toward prosurvival signaling and uncovered the circadian regulator ARNTL as an acquired vulnerability after AR inhibition, presenting a novel lead for therapeutic development. See related commentary by Zhang et al., p. 2017. This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 2007.
PXD033804	35754730	Structural basis for binding diversity of acetyltransferase p300 to the nucleosome. 	Crosslinking mass spectrometry of the p300 catalytic core complexed with the nucleosome	histone acetylation, nucleosome, p300	p300 is a human acetyltransferase that associates with chromatin and mediates vital cellular processes. We now report the cryo-electron microscopy structures of the p300 catalytic core in complex with the nucleosome core particle (NCP). In the most resolved structure, the HAT domain and bromodomain of p300 contact nucleosomal DNA at superhelical locations 2 and 3, and the catalytic site of the HAT domain are positioned near the N-terminal tail of histone H4. Mutations of the p300-DNA interfacial residues of p300 substantially decrease binding to NCP. Three additional classes of p300-NCP complexes show different modes of the p300-NCP complex formation. Our data provide structural details critical to our understanding of the mechanism by which p300 acetylates multiple sites on the nucleosome.
PXD027651	35754732	pSNAP: Proteome-wide analysis of elongating nascent polypeptide chains. 	Novel roles of small extracellular vesicles in regulating the quiescence and proliferation of neural stem cells	extracellular vesicles, neural stem cells	Cellular global translation is often measured using ribosome profiling or quantitative mass spectrometry, but these methods do not provide direct information at the level of elongating nascent polypeptide chains (NPCs) and associated co-translational events. Here, we describe pSNAP, a method for proteome-wide profiling of NPCs by affinity enrichment of puromycin- and stable isotope-labeled polypeptides. pSNAP does not require ribosome purification and/or chemical labeling, and captures bona fide NPCs that characteristically exhibit protein N-terminus-biased positions. We applied pSNAP to evaluate the effect of silmitasertib, a potential molecular therapy for cancer, and revealed acute translational repression through casein kinase II and mTOR pathways. We also characterized modifications on NPCs and demonstrated that the combination of different types of modifications, such as acetylation and phosphorylation in the N-terminal region of histone H1.5, can modulate interactions with ribosome-associated factors. Thus, pSNAP provides a framework for dissecting co-translational regulations on a proteome-wide scale.
PXD033875	35755677	Proteome Analysis of the Soybean Nodule Phosphorus Response Mechanism and Characterization of Stress-Induced Ribosome Structural and Protein Expression Changes. 	Proteome analysis of the soybean nodule phosphorus response mechanism and characterisation of stress-induced ribosome structural and protein expression changes	Nitrogen fixation, Phosphorus, Root nodule, Soybean	In agroecosystems, a plant-usable form of nitrogen is mainly generated by legume-based biological nitrogen fixation, a process that requires phosphorus (P) as an essential nutrient. To investigate the physiological mechanism whereby phosphorus influences soybean nodule nitrogen fixation, soybean root nodules were exposed to four phosphate levels: 1 mg/L (P stress), 11 mg/L (P stress), 31 mg/L (Normal P), and 61 mg/L (High P) then proteome analysis of nodules was conducted to identify phosphorus-associated proteome changes. We found that phosphorus stress-induced ribosomal protein structural changes were associated with altered key root nodule protein synthesis profiles. Importantly, up-regulated expression of peroxidase was observed as an important phosphorus stress-induced nitrogen fixation-associated adaptation that supported two nodule-associated activities: scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and cell wall growth. In addition, phosphorus transporter (PT) and purple acid phosphatase (PAPs) were up-regulated that regulated phosphorus transport and utilization to maintain phosphorus balance and nitrogen fixation function in phosphorus-stressed root nodules.
PXD029759	35757752	Serum Proteomic Analysis Identifies SAA1, FGA, SAP, and CETP as New Biomarkers for Eosinophilic Granulomatosis With Polyangiitis. 	Serum proteomic analysis identifies SAA1, FGA,SAP and CETP as new biomarkers for Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis	Data-Dependent Acquisition, Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis, Parallel reaction monitoring, biomarker, severe asthma	Background: Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis (EGPA) is characterized by asthma-like attacks in its early stage, which is easily misdiagnosed as severe asthma. Therefore, new biomarkers for the early diagnosis of EGPA are needed, especially for differentiating the diagnosis of asthma. Objectives: To identify serum biomarkers that can be used for early diagnosis of EGPA and to distinguish EGPA from severe asthma. Method: Data-independent acquisition (DIA) analysis was performed to identify 45 healthy controls (HC), severe asthma (S-A), and EGPA patients in a cohort to screen biomarkers for early diagnosis of EGPA and to differentiate asthma diagnosis. Subsequently, parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) analysis was applied to a validation cohort of 71 HC, S-A, and EGPA patients. Result: Four candidate biomarkers were identified from DIA and PRM analysis-i.e., serum amyloid A1 (SAA1), fibrinogen-alpha (FGA), and serum amyloid P component (SAP)-and were upregulated in the EGPA group, while cholesteryl ester transfer protein (CETP) was downregulated in the EGPA group compared with the S-A group. Receiver operating characteristics analysis shows that, as biomarkers for early diagnosis of EGPA, the combination of SAA1, FGA, and SAP has an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.947, a sensitivity of 82.35%, and a specificity of 100%. The combination of SAA1, FGA, SAP, and CETP as biomarkers for differential diagnosis of asthma had an AUC of 0.921, a sensitivity of 78.13%, and a specificity of 100%, which were all larger than single markers. Moreover, SAA1, FGA, and SAP were positively and CETP was negatively correlated with eosinophil count. Conclusion: DIA-PRM combined analysis screened and validated four previously unexplored but potentially useful biomarkers for early diagnosis of EGPA and differential diagnosis of asthma.
PXD031491	35758323	Phosphoproteome reveals molecular mechanisms of aberrant rhythm in neurotransmitter-mediated islet hormone secretion in diabetic mice. 	Murine islets identified by TMT-labeled phosphoproteome after short time stimulation with neurotransmitters ACh and NE	Murine, TMT-labeled, islet, neurotransmitters, phosphoproteome	BACKGROUND: Acetylcholine (ACh) and norepinephrine (NE) are representative neurotransmitters of parasympathetic and sympathetic nerves, respectively, that antagonize each other to coregulate internal body functions. This also includes the control of different kinds of hormone secretion from pancreatic islets. However, the molecular mechanisms have not been fully elucidated, and whether innervation in islets is abnormal in diabetes mellitus also remains unclear. METHODS AND RESULTS: Immunofluorescence colocalization and islet perfusion were performed and the results demonstrated that ACh/NE and their receptors were highly expressed in islet and rapidly regulated different hormones secretion. Phosphorylation is considered an important posttranslational modification in islet innervation and it was identified by quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses in this study. The phosphorylated islet proteins were found involved in many biological and pathological processes, such as synaptic signalling transduction, calcium channel opening and insulin signalling pathway. Then, the kinases were predicted by motif analysis and further screened and verified by kinase-specific siRNAs in different islet cell lines (alphaTC1-6, Min6 and TGP52). After functional verification, Ksr2 and Pkacb were considered the key kinases of ACh and NE in insulin secretion, and Cadps, Mlxipl and Pdcd4 were the substrates of these kinases measured by immunofluorescence co-staining. Then, the decreased expression of receptors, kinases and substrates of ACh and NE were found in diabetic mice and the aberrant rhythm in insulin secretion could be improved by combined interventions on key receptors (M3 (pilocarpine) or alpha2a (guanfacine)) and kinases (Ksr2 or Pkacb). CONCLUSIONS: Abnormal innervation was closely associated with the degree of islet dysfunction in diabetic mice and the aberrant rhythm in insulin secretion could be ameliorated significantly after intervention with key receptors and kinases in the early stage of diabetes mellitus, which may provide a promising therapeutic strategy for diabetes mellitus in the future.
PXD030029	35759742	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis Reveals Proteins Associated with High Melatonin Content in Barley Seeds under NaCl-Induced Salt Stress. 	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis reveals Proteins related with high melatonin content in barley seeds under NaCl-induced salt stress	Amino acids, Hull-less barley, Melatonin, NaCl, Salt stress, Secondary metabolites, Seed germination, TMT-based quantitative proteomics	Soil salinization limits hull-less barley cultivation in the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau of China. However, some wild hull-less barley seeds accumulate high melatonin (MEL) during germination with improved salt tolerance; but the mechanism of melatonin-mediated salt tolerance in hull-less barley is not well understood at the protein level. This study investigated proteome changes resulting in high melatonin content in germinating hull-less barley seeds under high saline conditions. The proteome profiles of seed treatment with 240 mM-NaCl (N), water (H), and control (C) taken 7 days after germination were compared using the TMT-based quantitative proteomics. Our results indicate that salt stress-induced global changes in the proteomes of germinating hull-less barley seeds, altering the expression and abundance of proteins related to cell cycle and control, carbohydrate and energy metabolism, and amino acid transport and metabolism including proteins related to melatonin production. Furthermore, proteins associated with cellular redox homeostasis, osmotic stress response, and secondary metabolites derived primarily from amino acid metabolism, purine degradation, and shikimate pathways increased significantly in abundance and may contribute to the high melatonin content in seeds under salt stress. Consequently, triggering the robust response to oxidative stress occasioned by the NaCl-induced salt stress, improved seed germination and strong adaptation to salt stress.
PXD032037	35760815	Hsp multichaperone complex buffers pathologically modified Tau. 	Hsp multichaperone complex buffers pathologically modified Tau	Alzheimer´s disease, Hsp, Tau, multichaperone	Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder in which misfolding and aggregation of pathologically modified Tau is critical for neuronal dysfunction and degeneration. The two central chaperones Hsp70 and Hsp90 coordinate protein homeostasis, but the nature of the interaction of Tau with the Hsp70/Hsp90 machinery has remained enigmatic. Here we show that Tau is a high-affinity substrate of the human Hsp70/Hsp90 machinery. Complex formation involves extensive intermolecular contacts, blocks Tau aggregation and depends on Tau's aggregation-prone repeat region. The Hsp90 co-chaperone p23 directly binds Tau and stabilizes the multichaperone/substrate complex, whereas the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase CHIP efficiently disassembles the machinery targeting Tau to proteasomal degradation. Because phosphorylated Tau binds the Hsp70/Hsp90 machinery but is not recognized by Hsp90 alone, the data establish the Hsp70/Hsp90 multichaperone complex as a critical regulator of Tau in neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD029565	35760926	Structural basis for defective membrane targeting of mutant enzyme in human VLCAD deficiency. 	Structural Basis for Defective Membrane Targeting of Mutant Enzyme in Human VLCAD Deficiency	HDX-MS, VLCAD, X-ray crystallography, fatty acid oxidation, hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, membrane protein structure, molecular dynamics	Very long-chain acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (VLCAD) is an inner mitochondrial membrane enzyme that catalyzes the first and rate-limiting step of long-chain fatty acid oxidation. Point mutations in human VLCAD can produce an inborn error of metabolism called VLCAD deficiency that can lead to severe pathophysiologic consequences, including cardiomyopathy, hypoglycemia, and rhabdomyolysis. Discrete mutations in a structurally-uncharacterized C-terminal domain region of VLCAD cause enzymatic deficiency by an incompletely defined mechanism. Here, we conducted a structure-function study, incorporating X-ray crystallography, hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, computational modeling, and biochemical analyses, to characterize a specific membrane interaction defect of full-length, human VLCAD bearing the clinically-observed mutations, A450P or L462P. By disrupting a predicted alpha-helical hairpin, these mutations either partially or completely impair direct interaction with the membrane itself. Thus, our data support a structural basis for VLCAD deficiency in patients with discrete mutations in an alpha-helical membrane-binding motif, resulting in pathologic enzyme mislocalization.
PXD028488	35761067	Cyclic immonium ion of lactyllysine reveals widespread lactylation in the human proteome. 	Cyclic immonium ion of lactyllysine reveals widespread lactylation in the human proteome	Orbitrap, Waters synapt G2	Lactylation was initially discovered on human histones. Given its nascence, its occurrence on nonhistone proteins and downstream functional consequences remain elusive. Here we report a cyclic immonium ion of lactyllysine formed during tandem mass spectrometry that enables confident protein lactylation assignment. We validated the sensitivity and specificity of this ion for lactylation through affinity-enriched lactylproteome analysis and large-scale informatic assessment of nonlactylated spectral libraries. With this diagnostic ion-based strategy, we confidently determined new lactylation, unveiling a wide landscape beyond histones from not only the enriched lactylproteome but also existing unenriched human proteome resources. Specifically, by mining the public human Meltome Atlas, we found that lactylation is common on glycolytic enzymes and conserved on ALDOA. We also discovered prevalent lactylation on DHRS7 in the draft of the human tissue proteome. We partially demonstrated the functional importance of lactylation: site-specific engineering of lactylation into ALDOA caused enzyme inhibition, suggesting a lactylation-dependent feedback loop in glycolysis.
PXD034390	35762019	Characterization of LC-MS based urine metabolomics in healthy children and adults. 	Characterization of LC-MS based urine metabolomics in healthy children and adults	adults, characterization, children, metabolomics, urine	Previous studies reported that sex and age could influence urine metabolomics, which should be considered in biomarker discovery. As a consequence, for the baseline of urine metabolomics characteristics, it becomes critical to avoid confounding effects in clinical cohort studies. In this study, we provided a comprehensive lifespan characterization of urine metabolomics in a cohort of 348 healthy children and 315 adults, aged 1 to 78 years, using liquid chromatography coupled with high resolution mass spectrometry. Our results suggest that sex-dependent urine metabolites are much greater in adults than in children. The pantothenate and CoA biosynthesis and alanine metabolism pathways were enriched in early life. Androgen and estrogen metabolism showed high activity during adolescence and youth stages. Pyrimidine metabolism was enriched in the geriatric stage. Based on the above analysis, metabolomic characteristics of each age stage were provided. This work could help us understand the baseline of urine metabolism characteristics and contribute to further studies of clinical disease biomarker discovery.
PXD025712	35762632	Characterization of a flexible AAV-DTR/DT mouse model of acute epithelial lung injury. 	Spatial resolution of proteomic changes in lung tissue from a flexible AAV-DTR/DT mouse model of acute cell deletion mimicking epithelial lung injury	AAV, DTR, FFPE, TMT, diphtheria toxin, epithelial cells, laser-capture microdissection	Animal models are important to mimic certain pathways or biological aspects of human pathologies including acute and chronic pulmonary diseases. We developed a novel and flexible mouse model of acute epithelial lung injury based on adeno-associated virus (AAV) variant 6.2-mediated expression of the human diphtheria toxin receptor (DTR). Following intratracheal administration of diphtheria toxin (DT), a cell-specific death of bronchial and alveolar epithelial cells can be observed. In contrast to other lung injury models, the here described mouse model provides the possibility of targeted injury using specific tropisms of AAV vectors or cell-type-specific promotors to drive the human DTR expression. Also, generation of cell-specific mouse lines is not required. Detailed characterization of the AAV-DTR/DT mouse model including titration of viral genome (vg) load and administered DT amount revealed increasing cell numbers in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL; macrophages, neutrophils, and unspecified cells) and elevation of degenerated cells and infiltrated leukocytes in lung tissue, dependent of vg load and DT dose. Cytokine levels in BAL fluid showed different patterns with higher vg load, e.g., IFNgamma, TNFalpha, and IP10 increasing and IL-5 and IL-6 decreasing, whereas lung function was not affected. In addition, laser-capture microdissection (LCM)-based proteomics of bronchial epithelium and alveolar tissue revealed upregulated immune and inflammatory responses in all regions and extracellular matrix deposition in infiltrated alveoli. Overall, our novel AAV-DTR/DT model allows investigation of repair mechanisms following epithelial injury and resembles specific mechanistic aspects of acute and chronic pulmonary diseases.
PXD025802	35766104	Kinetoplastid-specific X2-family kinesins interact with a kinesin-like pleckstrin homology domain protein that localizes to the trypanosomal microtubule quartet. 	Trypanosoma brucei PH1-BioID proxisome	BioID, Trypanosoma, kinesin-like protein	Kinesins are motor proteins found in all eukaryotic lineages that move along microtubules to mediate cellular processes such as mitosis and intracellular transport. In trypanosomatids, the kinesin superfamily has undergone a prominent expansion, resulting in one of the most diverse kinesin repertoires that includes the two kinetoplastid-restricted families X1 and X2. Here, we characterize in Trypanosoma brucei TbKifX2A, an orphaned X2 kinesin. TbKifX2A tightly interacts with TbPH1, a kinesin-like protein with a likely inactive motor domain, a rarely reported occurrence. Both TbKifX2A and TbPH1 localize to the microtubule quartet (MtQ), a characteristic but poorly understood cytoskeletal structure that wraps around the flagellar pocket as it extends to the cell body anterior. The proximal proteome of TbPH1 revealed two other interacting proteins, the flagellar pocket protein FP45 and intriguingly another X2 kinesin, TbKifX2C. Simultaneous ablation of TbKifX2A/TbPH1 results in the depletion of FP45 and TbKifX2C and also an expansion of the flagellar pocket, among other morphological defects. TbKifX2A is the first motor protein to be localized to the MtQ. The observation that TbKifX2C also associates with the MtQ suggests that the X2 kinesin family may have co-evolved with the MtQ, both kinetoplastid-specific traits.
PXD010900	35766863	Defects in autophagy lead to selective in vivo changes in turnover of cytosolic and organelle proteins in Arabidopsis. 	To invesigate the role of autophagy in Arabidopsis root cellular protein turnover and proteostasis	15N labelling, autophagy, protein turnover	Identification of autophagic protein cargo in plants in autophagy-related genes (ATG) mutants is complicated by changes in protein synthesis and protein degradation. To detect autophagic cargo, we measured protein degradation rate in shoots and roots of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) atg5 and atg11 mutants. These data show that less than a quarter of proteins changing in abundance are probable cargo and revealed roles of ATG11 and ATG5 in degradation of specific glycolytic enzymes and of other cytosol, chloroplast, and ER-resident proteins, and a specialized role for ATG11 in degradation of proteins from mitochondria and chloroplasts. Protein localization in transformed protoplasts and degradation assays in the presence of inhibitors confirm a role for autophagy in degrading glycolytic enzymes. Autophagy induction by phosphate (Pi) limitation changed metabolic profiles and the protein synthesis and degradation rates of atg5 and atg11 plants. A general decrease in the abundance of amino acids and increase in secondary metabolites in autophagy mutants was consistent with altered catabolism and changes in energy conversion caused by reduced degradation rate of specific proteins. Combining measures of changes in protein abundance and degradation rates, we also identify ATG11 and ATG5-associated protein cargo of low Pi-induced autophagy in chloroplasts and ER-resident proteins involved in secondary metabolism.
PXD031514	35766888	AP1/2beta-mediated exocytosis of tapetum-specific transporters is required for pollen development in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Arabidopsis whole seedling LC-MS/MS		AP-1 and AP-2 adaptor protein (AP) complexes mediate clathrin-dependent trafficking at the trans-Golgi network (TGN) and the plasma membrane, respectively. Whereas AP-1 is required for trafficking to plasma membrane and vacuoles, AP-2 mediates endocytosis. These AP complexes consist of four subunits (adaptins): two large subunits (beta1 and gamma for AP-1 and beta2 and alpha for AP-2), a medium subunit mu, and a small subunit sigma. In general, adaptins are unique to each AP complex, with the exception of beta subunits that are shared by AP-1 and AP-2 in some invertebrates. Here, we show that the two putative Arabidopsis thaliana AP1/2beta adaptins co-assemble with both AP-1 and AP-2 subunits and regulate exocytosis and endocytosis in root cells, consistent with their dual localization at the TGN and plasma membrane. Deletion of both beta adaptins is lethal in plants. We identified a critical role of beta adaptins in pollen wall formation and reproduction, involving the regulation of membrane trafficking in the tapetum and pollen germination. In tapetal cells, beta adaptins localize almost exclusively to the TGN and mediate exocytosis of the plasma membrane transporters such as ATP-binding cassette (ABC)G9 and ABCG16. This study highlights the essential role of AP1/2beta adaptins in plants and their specialized roles in specific cell types.
PXD031792	35768507	A peroxisomal ubiquitin ligase complex forms a retrotranslocation channel. 	1 Structure of the peroxisomal retro-translocon formed by a heterotrimeric ubiquitin ligase 2 complex	Peroxisomes, TMTpro, cryo-EM, polyubiquitination	Peroxisomes are ubiquitous organelles that house various metabolic reactions and are essential for human health(1-4). Luminal peroxisomal proteins are imported from the cytosol by mobile receptors, which then recycle back to the cytosol by a poorly understood process(1-4). Recycling requires receptor modification by a membrane-embedded ubiquitin ligase complex comprising three RING finger domain-containing proteins (Pex2, Pex10 and Pex12)(5,6). Here we report a cryo-electron microscopy structure of the ligase complex, which together with biochemical and in vivo experiments reveals its function as a retrotranslocation channel for peroxisomal import receptors. Each subunit of the complex contributes five transmembrane segments that co-assemble into an open channel. The three ring finger domains form a cytosolic tower, with ring finger 2 (RF2) positioned above the channel pore. We propose that the N terminus of a recycling receptor is inserted from the peroxisomal lumen into the pore and monoubiquitylated by RF2 to enable extraction into the cytosol. If recycling is compromised, receptors are polyubiquitylated by the concerted action of RF10 and RF12 and degraded. This polyubiquitylation pathway also maintains the homeostasis of other peroxisomal import factors. Our results clarify a crucial step during peroxisomal protein import and reveal why mutations in the ligase complex cause human disease.
PXD033365	35768513	Structural insights into dsRNA processing by Drosophila Dicer-2-Loqs-PD. 	Structural insights into dsRNA processing by Drosophila Dicer-2/Loqs-PD	ATP-dependent RNA helicase, Dicer-2, Loqs-PD, RNAi, siRNA processing	Small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) are the key components for RNA interference (RNAi), a conserved RNA-silencing mechanism in many eukaryotes(1,2). In Drosophila, an RNase III enzyme Dicer-2 (Dcr-2), aided by its cofactor Loquacious-PD (Loqs-PD), has an important role in generating 21 bp siRNA duplexes from long double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs)(3,4). ATP hydrolysis by the helicase domain of Dcr-2 is critical to the successful processing of a long dsRNA into consecutive siRNA duplexes(5,6). Here we report the cryo-electron microscopy structures of Dcr-2-Loqs-PD in the apo state and in multiple states in which it is processing a 50 bp dsRNA substrate. The structures elucidated interactions between Dcr-2 and Loqs-PD, and substantial conformational changes of Dcr-2 during a dsRNA-processing cycle. The N-terminal helicase and domain of unknown function 283 (DUF283) domains undergo conformational changes after initial dsRNA binding, forming an ATP-binding pocket and a 5'-phosphate-binding pocket. The overall conformation of Dcr-2-Loqs-PD is relatively rigid during translocating along the dsRNA in the presence of ATP, whereas the interactions between the DUF283 and RIIIDb domains prevent non-specific cleavage during translocation by blocking the access of dsRNA to the RNase active centre. Additional ATP-dependent conformational changes are required to form an active dicing state and precisely cleave the dsRNA into a 21 bp siRNA duplex as confirmed by the structure in the post-dicing state. Collectively, this study revealed the molecular mechanism for the full cycle of ATP-dependent dsRNA processing by Dcr-2-Loqs-PD.
PXD028086	35769555	Determination of Allergen Levels, Isoforms, and Their Hydroxyproline Modifications Among Peanut Genotypes by Mass Spectrometry. 	Determination of allergen levels, isoforms and their hydroxyproline modifications among peanut genotypes by mass spectrometry	Arachis hypogaea, Food Allergy, Hydroxyproline, Peanut	The recently published reference genome of peanuts enables a detailed molecular description of the allergenic proteins of the seed. We used LC-MS/MS to investigate peanuts of different genotypes to assess variability and to better describe naturally occurring allergens and isoforms. Using relative quantification by mass spectrometry, minor variation of some allergenic proteins was observed, but total levels of Ara h 1, 2, 3, and 6 were relatively consistent among 20 genotypes. Previously published RP-HPLC methodology was used for comparison. The abundance of three Ara h 3 isoforms were variable among the genotypes and contributed to a large proportion of total Ara h 3 where present. Previously unpublished hydroxyproline sites were identified in Ara h 1 and 3. Hydroxylation did not vary significantly where sites were present. Peanut allergen composition was largely stable, with only some isoforms displaying differences between genotypes. The resulting differences in allergenicity are of unknown clinical significance but are likely to be minor. The data presented herein allow for the design of targeted MS methodology to allow the quantitation and therefore control of peanut allergens of clinical relevance and observed variability.
PXD033724	35770073	Icariside II Restores Vascular Smooth Muscle Cell Contractile Phenotype by Enhancing the Focal Adhesion Signaling Pathway in the Rat Vascular Remodeling Model. 	Icariside II restores vascular smooth muscle cell contractile phenotype by enhancing focal adhesion signaling pathway in rat vascular remodeling model	Herbal medicine, Icariside II, Phenotypic transition, Vascular remodeling, Vascular smooth muscle cell	Vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) phenotypic transition represents the fundamental pathophysiological alteration in the vascular remodeling process during the initiation and progression of cardiovascular diseases. Recent studies have revealed that Icariside II (ICS-II), a flavonol glycoside derived from the traditional Chinese medicine Herba Epimedii, exhibited therapeutic effects in various cardiovascular diseases. However, the therapeutic efficacy and underlying mechanisms of ICS-II regarding VSMC phenotypic transition were unknown. In this study, we investigated the therapeutic effects of ICS-II on vascular remodeling with a rat's balloon injury model in vivo. The label-free proteomic analysis was further implemented to identify the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) after ICS-II intervention. Gene ontology and the pathway enrichment analysis were performed based on DEPs. Moreover, platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF-BB)-induced primary rat VSMC was implemented to verify the restoration effects of ICS-II on the VSMC contractile phenotype. Results showed that ICS-II could effectively attenuate the vascular remodeling process, promote SMA-alpha protein expression, and inhibit OPN expression in vivo. The proteomic analysis identified 145 differentially expressed proteins after ICS-II intervention. Further, the bioinformatics analysis indicated that the focal adhesion signaling pathway was enriched in the ICS-II group. In vitro studies showed that ICS-II suppressed VSMC proliferation and migration, and promoted VSMC contractile phenotype by modulating the focal adhesion signaling pathway. Taken together, our results suggest that ICS-II attenuates the vascular remodeling process and restores the VSMC contractile phenotype by promoting the focal adhesion pathway.
PXD030121	35770079	Proteomic Analysis of Potential Targets for Non-Response to Infliximab in Patients With Ulcerative Colitis. 	Human Intestinal biopsy tissue LC-MS	Intestinal biopsy tissue, LC-MS	Background: Infliximab (IFX) is a potent therapeutic agent used for the treatment of conventional refractory ulcerative colitis (UC). However, the high non-response rate of IFX brings difficulties to clinical applications. In the context of proteomics research, our study of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) is essential for non-response to IFX in UC patients and provides powerful insights into underlying drug resistance mechanisms. Methods: A total of 12 UC patients were divided into responders to IFX (UCinfG), non-responders to IFX (UCinfL), severe UC (UCsevere) without an IFX treatment history, and mild UC (UCmild) without an IFX treatment history. Subsequently, DEPs were identified from intestinal biopsy tissue between responders and non-responders to IFX by a label-free proteomic quantitative approach, and the general principle of functional protein screening was followed to deduce the potential drug targets and predictors for non-response to IFX in UC patients. Meanwhile, these targets excluded DEPs caused by the severity of inflammation for the first time. The differential expressions of candidate protein targets were validated at the gene sequence level using GEO2R analysis of the GEO database and qRT-PCR in some independent cohorts. Results: A total of 257 DEPs were screened out by mass spectrometry between UCinfG and UCinfL groups, excluding 22 DEPs caused by the severity of inflammation, and compared and verified at the gene sequence level in the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) database. Finally, five DEPs, including ACTBL2 (Q562R1), MBL2 (P11226), BPI (P17213), EIF3D (O15371), and CR1 (P17927), were identified as novel drug targets and predictive biomarkers for non-response to IFX. The drug targets were confirmed in the GEO database of the microarray results from three independent cohorts of 70 human intestinal biopsies and validated in qPCR data from 17 colonic mucosal biopsies. Among them, CR1 might affect the activation of the lectin pathway via complement-coated bacteria to play an opsonizing role in inflammation-related pathways closely associated with non-responders to IFX. Conclusion: This is the first report of proteomics analysis for the identification of novel drug targets based on intestinal biopsy tissue, which is significant for hypotheses for mechanistic investigation that are responsible for non-response to IFX and the development of clinical new pharmaceutical drugs.
PXD029918	35770882	Evaluation of Volumetric Absorptive Microsampling and Mass Spectrometry Data-Independent Acquisition of Hemoglobin-Related Clinical Markers. 	Evaluation of volumetric absorptive microsampling and mass spectrometry data-independent acquisition in hemoglobin related clinical markers	Data-independent acquisition, glycated hemoglobin, hemoglobin variants., volumetric absorptive microsampling	Data-independent acquisition (DIA) allows comprehensive proteome coverage, while it also potentially works as a unified protocol to determine a multitude of proteins found in blood. Because of its high specificity, mass spectrometry may greatly reduce the interference observed in other assays to evaluate blood markers. Here, we combined DIA with volumetric absorptive microsampling (VAMS) and automated proteomics sample processing in a platform to assess clinical markers. As a proof of concept, we evaluated two hemoglobin-related biomarkers: the glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) and hemoglobin (Hb) variants. HbA1c by DIA showed good correlation with the reference method, but method imprecision did not meet the quality requirement for this biomarker. We developed a strategy to identify Hb variants based on a customized database combined with a workflow for DIA data extraction and rigorous peptide evaluation. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD029918.
PXD033143	35771142	Digital Microfluidics Supported Microproteomics for Quantitative Proteome Analysis of Single Caenorhabditis elegans Nematodes. 	Microproteomics workflows for quantitative proteome analysis of single Caenorhabditis elegans nematodes	Caenorhabditis elegans, FAIMS, ion trap, low-input proteomics, microproteomics, nanoproteomics	Miniaturization of sample preparation, including omissible manual sample handling steps, is key for reproducible nanoproteomics, as material is often restricted to only hundreds of cells or single model organisms. Here, we demonstrate a highly sensitive digital microfluidics (DMF)-based sample preparation workflow making use of single-pot solid-phase enhanced sample preparation (SP3) in combination with high-field asymmetric-waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS), and fast and sensitive ion trap detection on an Orbitrap tribrid MS system. Compared to a manual in-tube SP3-supported sample preparation, the numbers of identified peptides and proteins were markedly increased, while lower standard deviations between replicates were observed. We repeatedly identified up to 5000 proteins from single nematodes. Moreover, label-free quantification of protein changes in single Caenorhabditis elegans treated with a heat stimulus yielded 45 differentially abundant proteins when compared to the untreated control, highlighting the potential of this technology for low-input proteomics studies. LC-MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the data set identifier PXD033143.
PXD031817	35772009	Distinct Histone Post-translational Modifications during Plasmodium falciparum Gametocyte Development. 	histone post-translational modification during Plasmodium falciparum gametocyte development	Plasmodium falciparum, gametocyte, histone, malaria	Histones are the building units of nucleosomes, which constitute chromatin. Histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) play an essential role in epigenetic gene regulation. The Plasmodium falciparum genome encodes canonical and variant histones and a collection of conserved enzymes for histone PTMs and chromatin remodeling. Herein, we profiled the P. falciparum histone PTMs during the development of gametocytes, the obligatory stage for parasite transmission. Mass spectrometric analysis of histones extracted from the early, middle, and late stages of gametocytes identified 457 unique histone peptides with 90 PTMs, of which 50% were novel. The gametocyte histone PTMs display distinct patterns from asexual stages, with many new methylation sites in histones H3 and H3.3 (e.g., K14, K18, and K37). Quantitative analyses revealed a high abundance of acetylation in H3 and H4, mono-methylation of H3/H3.3 K37, and ubiquitination of H3BK112, suggesting that these PTMs play critical roles in gametocytes. Gametocyte histones also showed extensive and unique combinations of PTMs. These data indicate that the parasite harbors distinct transcription regulation mechanisms during gametocyte development and lay the foundation for further characterization of epigenetic regulation in the life cycle of the malaria parasite.
PXD034814	35772265	Deep coverage proteome analysis of hair shaft for forensic individual identification. 	Deep coverage proteome analysis of hair shaft for forensic individual identification	Forensic individual identification, Genetically variant peptide, Hair shaft, Single amino acid polymorphisms	Hair shaft is one of the most common biological evidence found at crime scenes. However, due to the biogenic degradation of nuclear DNA in hair shaft, it is difficult to achieve individual identification through routine DNA analysis. In contrast, the proteins in hair shaft are stable and contain genetic polymorphisms in the form of single amino acid polymorphisms (SAPs), translated from non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) in the genome. However, the number of SAPs detected still cannot meet the requirements of practical applications. This paper developed a deep coverage proteome analysis method by combining a three-step sequential ionic liquid-based protein extraction and 2D-RPLC-MS/MS with high and low pH to identify both variant and reference SAPs from 2-cm-long hair shafts. We identified 632 +/- 243 protein groups from 10 individuals, with the average number of SAPs reaching 167 +/- 21/person. These were further used to calculate random match probabilities (RMPs), a widely accepted forensic statistical term for human identification. The RMPs ranged from 6.53 x 10(-4) to 3.10 x 10(-14) (median = 2.62 x 10(-8)) when calculated with frequency of matching nsSNP genotype data from exomes, and ranged from 2.62 x 10(-3) to 2.07 x 10(-10) (median = 4.88 x 10(-6)) with SAP genotype frequency. All these results indicate that the deep coverage proteomics method is beneficial for improving SAP-based forensic individual identification in hair shaft, with great potential in crime investigation.
PXD034148	35773306	Identification of bioactive peptides from a Brazilian kefir sample, and their anti-Alzheimer potential in Drosophila melanogaster. 	Identification of bioactive peptides from a Brazilian kefir sample, and their anti-Alzheimer potential in Drosophila melanogasterIdentification of bioactive peptides from a Brazilian kefir sample	Human Proteome Project, LC-MSMS. Kefir, Peptide, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP)	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia in the elderly, affecting cognitive, intellectual, and motor functions. Different hypotheses explain AD's mechanism, such as the amyloidogenic hypothesis. Moreover, this disease is multifactorial, and several studies have shown that gut dysbiosis and oxidative stress influence its pathogenesis. Knowing that kefir is a probiotic used in therapies to restore dysbiosis and that the bioactive peptides present in it have antioxidant properties, we explored its biotechnological potential as a source of molecules capable of modulating the amyloidogenic pathway and reducing oxidative stress, contributing to the treatment of AD. For that, we used Drosophila melanogaster model for AD (AD-like flies). Identification of bioactive peptides in the kefir sample was made by proteomic and peptidomic analyses, followed by in vitro evaluation of antioxidant and acetylcholinesterase inhibition potential. Flies were treated and their motor performance, brain morphology, and oxidative stress evaluated. Finally, we performed molecular docking between the peptides found and the main pathology-related proteins in the flies. The results showed that the fraction with the higher peptide concentration was positive for the parameters evaluated. In conclusion, these results revealed these kefir peptide-rich fractions have therapeutic potential for AD.
PXD034184	35773495	Improved profiling of low molecular weight serum proteome for gastric carcinoma by data-independent acquisition. 	Improved Profiling of Low Molecular Weight Serum Proteome for Gastric Carcinoma by Data-independent Acquisition	Low molecular weight proteins (LMWPs), data-independent acquisition (DIA), gastric carcinoma (GC), mass spectrometer, quantitative proteomics	Low molecular weight proteins (LMWPs) in the bloodstream participate in various biological processes and are closely associated with disease status, whereas identification of serous LMWPs remains a great technical challenge due to the wide dynamic range of protein components. In this study, we constructed an integrated LMWP library by combining the LMWPs obtained by three enrichment methods (50% ACN, 20% ACN + 20 mM ABC, and 30 kDa) and their fractions identified by the data-dependent acquisition method. With this newly constructed library, we comprehensively profiled LMWPs in serum using data-independent acquisition and reliably achieved quantitative results for 75% serous LMWPs. When applying this strategy to quantify LMWPs in human serum samples, we could identify 405 proteins on average per sample, of which 136 proteins were with a MW less than 30 kDa and 293 proteins were with a MW less than 65 kDa. Of note, pre- and post-operative gastric carcinoma (GC) patients showed differentially expressed serous LWMPs, which was also different from the pattern of LWMP expression in healthy controls. In conclusion, our results showed that LMWPs could efficiently distinguish GC patients from healthy controls as well as between pre- and post-operative statuses, and more importantly, our newly developed LMWP profiling platform could be used to discover candidate LMWP biomarkers for disease diagnosis and status monitoring.
PXD030509	35774163	A peptide-derived strategy for specifically targeting the mitochondria and ER of cancer cells: a new approach in fighting cancer. 	A peptide-derived strategy for specifically targeting the mitochondrial-ER network of cancer cells: a new paradigm in fighting cancer	CISD2, ER, NAF-1, cancer, cell death, mitochondria, peptides	An effective anti-cancer therapy should exclusively target cancer cells and trigger in them a broad spectrum of cell death pathways that will prevent avoidance. Here, we present a new approach in cancer therapy that specifically targets the mitochondria and ER of cancer cells. We developed a peptide derived from the flexible and transmembrane domains of the human protein NAF-1/CISD2. This peptide (NAF-1(44-67)) specifically permeates through the plasma membranes of human epithelial breast cancer cells, abolishes their mitochondria and ER, and triggers cell death with characteristics of apoptosis, ferroptosis and necroptosis. In vivo analysis revealed that the peptide significantly decreases tumor growth in mice carrying xenograft human tumors. Computational simulations of cancer vs. normal cell membranes reveal that the specificity of the peptide to cancer cells is due to its selective recognition of their membrane composition. NAF-1(44-67) represents a promising anti-cancer lead compound that acts via a unique mechanism.
PXD027129	35774275	Proteomic Analysis of Chicken Chorioallantoic Membrane (CAM) during Embryonic Development Provides Functional Insight. 	Chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) and embryonic blood serum proteomics	Chicken, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP), chorioallantoic membrane, serum	In oviparous animals, the egg contains all resources required for embryonic development. The chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) is a placenta-like structure produced by the embryo for acid-base balance, respiration, and calcium solubilization from the eggshell for bone mineralization. The CAM is a valuable in vivo model in cancer research for development of drug delivery systems and has been used to study tissue grafts, tumor metastasis, toxicology, angiogenesis, and assessment of bacterial invasion. However, the protein constituents involved in different CAM functions are poorly understood. Therefore, we have characterized the CAM proteome at two stages of development (ED12 and ED19) and assessed the contribution of the embryonic blood serum (EBS) proteome to identify CAM-unique proteins. LC/MS/MS-based proteomics allowed the identification of 1470, 1445, and 791 proteins in CAM (ED12), CAM (ED19), and EBS, respectively. In total, 1796 unique proteins were identified. Of these, 175 (ED12), 177 (ED19), and 105 (EBS) were specific to these stages/compartments. This study attributed specific CAM protein constituents to functions such as calcium ion transport, gas exchange, vasculature development, and chemical protection against invading pathogens. Defining the complex nature of the CAM proteome provides a crucial basis to expand its biomedical applications for pharmaceutical and cancer research.
PXD009619	35774501	Proteomic Analysis of Hypothalamus and Pituitary Gland in Pre and Postpubertal Brahman Heifers. 	Bovine pituitary LC-MS/MS     .	Bos indicus, Brahman, LC-ESI-MS/MS, pituitary gland, puberty	The hypothalamus and the pituitary gland are directly involved in the complex systemic changes that drive the onset of puberty in cattle. Here, we applied integrated bioinformatics to elucidate the critical proteins underlying puberty and uncover potential molecular mechanisms from the hypothalamus and pituitary gland of prepubertal (n = 6) and postpubertal (n = 6) cattle. Proteomic analysis in the hypothalamus and pituitary gland revealed 275 and 186 differentially abundant (DA) proteins, respectively (adjusted p-value < 0.01). The proteome profiles found herein were integrated with previously acquired transcriptome profiles. These transcriptomic studies used the same tissues harvested from the same heifers at pre- and post-puberty. This comparison detected a small number of matched transcripts and protein changes at puberty in each tissue, suggesting the need for multiple omics analyses for interpreting complex biological systems. In the hypothalamus, upregulated DA proteins at post-puberty were enriched in pathways related to puberty, including GnRH, calcium and oxytocin signalling pathways, whereas downregulated proteins were observed in the estrogen signalling pathway, axon guidance and GABAergic synapse. Additionally, this study revealed that ribosomal pathway proteins in the pituitary were involved in the pubertal development of mammals. The reported molecules and derived protein-protein networks are a starting point for future experimental approaches that might dissect with more detail the role of each molecule to provide new insights into the mechanisms of puberty onset in cattle.
PXD028193	35775739	Inner membrane complex proteomics reveals a palmitoylation regulation critical for intraerythrocytic development of malaria parasite. 	Inner membrane complex proteomics reveals a palmitoylation cascade regulating intraerythrocytic development of malaria parasite	SWATH-MS, malaria parasite, proximity labelling	Malaria is caused by infection of the erythrocytes by the parasites Plasmodium. Inside the erythrocytes, the parasites multiply via schizogony, an unconventional cell division mode. The inner membrane complex (IMC), an organelle located beneath the parasite plasma membrane, serving as the platform for protein anchorage, is essential for schizogony. So far, the complete repertoire of IMC proteins and their localization determinants remain unclear. Here we used biotin ligase (TurboID)-based proximity labeling to compile the proteome of the schizont IMC of the rodent malaria parasite Plasmodium yoelii. In total, 300 TurboID-interacting proteins were identified. 18 of 21 selected candidates were confirmed to localize in the IMC, indicating good reliability. In light of the existing palmitome of Plasmodium falciparum, 83 proteins of the P. yoelii IMC proteome are potentially palmitoylated. We further identified DHHC2 as the major resident palmitoyl-acyl-transferase of the IMC. Depletion of DHHC2 led to defective schizont segmentation and growth arrest both in vitro and in vivo. DHHC2 was found to palmitoylate two critical IMC proteins CDPK1 and GAP45 for their IMC localization. In summary, this study reports an inventory of new IMC proteins and demonstrates a central role of DHHC2 in governing the IMC localization of proteins during the schizont development.
PXD032957	35776679	Investigating Peptide-Coenzyme A Conjugates as Chemical Probes for Proteomic Profiling of N-Terminal and Lysine Acetyltransferases. 	Investigating peptide-Coenzyme A-conjugates as chemical probes for proteomic profiling of N-terminal and lysine acetyltransferases	Acetylation, CoA, KAT, NAT	Acetyl groups are transferred from acetyl-coenzyme A (Ac-CoA) to protein N-termini and lysine side chains by N-terminal acetyltransferases (NATs) and lysine acetyltransferases (KATs), respectively. Building on lysine-CoA conjugates as KAT probes, we have synthesized peptide probes with CoA conjugated to N-terminal alanine (alpha-Ala-CoA), proline (alpha-Pro-CoA) or tri-glutamic acid (alpha-3Glu-CoA) units for interactome profiling of NAT complexes. The alpha-Ala-CoA probe enriched the majority of NAT catalytic and auxiliary subunits, while a lysine CoA-conjugate bound only a subset of endogenous KATs. Interactome profiling with the alpha-Pro-CoA probe showed reduced NAT recruitment in favor of metabolic CoA binding proteins and alpha-3Glu-CoA steered the interactome towards NAA80 and NatB. These findings agreed with the inherent substrate specificities of the target proteins and showed that N-terminal CoA-conjugated peptides are versatile probes for NAT complex profiling in lysates of physiological and pathological backgrounds.
PXD029165	35777279	Urinary proteome of dogs with renal disease secondary to leishmaniosis. 	Urinary proteins in dogs suffering leishmaniasis	dogs, leishmania infantum, renal disease, urine	Canine leishmaniosis is frequently associated with the development of renal disease. Its pathogenesis is complex and not fully understood. For this reason, this study aimed to describe the urinary proteome, and identify possible new biomarkers in dogs with kidney disease secondary to leishmaniosis. Urine samples were collected from 20 dogs, 5 from healthy dogs, and 15 from stages Leishvet III and IV. Urine samples were analyzed by UHPLC-MS/MS. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD029165. A total of 951 proteins were obtained. After bioinformatic analysis, 93 urinary proteins were altered in the study group. Enrichment analysis performed on these proteins showed an overrepresentation of the complement activation pathway, among others. Finally, 12 discriminant variables were found in dogs with renal disease secondary to leishmaniosis, highlighting C4a anaphylatoxin, apolipoprotein A-I, haptoglobin, leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein 1, and beta-2-microglobulin. This study is the first to describe the urinary proteomics of dogs with renal disease caused by leishmaniosis, and it provides new possible biomarkers for the diagnosis and monitoring of this disease.
PXD025311	35777909	The multiomics landscape of serum exosomes during the development of sepsis. 	The multiomics landscape of serum exosomes during the development of sepsis	Sepsis, exosomes, metabolomics, transcriptomics	INTRODUCTION: Sepsis is an infection-induced severe inflammatory disorder leading to multiple organ dysfunction. It remains a highly lethal condition for which early diagnosis and therapy achieve unsatisfactory results. Circulating exosomes containing biomarkers and mediators of sepsis have recently received attention, but the progress has been far from optimal. OBJECTIVES: The present study focuses on the profiles of molecular dynamics in serum exosomes and explores the potential molecular mechanisms on serum exosomes during the process of sepsis. METHODS: We used high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and RNA-seq to detect the dynamic profiles of exosome proteins and RNAs (including mRNAs, lncRNAs and miRNAs) in serum exosomes from 3 healthy individuals and 9 septic patients at the different stages. Then integrative multiomics analyses were performed and the results were validated by qRT-PCR, LiquiChip assay and metabolomics analysis on mice subjected to cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) modeling. RESULTS: A total of 354 proteins, 195 mRNAs, 82 lncRNAs and 55 miRNAs were identified as differentially expressed molecules in serum exosomes from septic patients. Integrative multiomics analysis showed that exosome components were associated with cytokine storm, complement and clotting cascades, the endothelial barrier, 20S proteasome-dependent protein degradation and vitamin metabolism. Importantly, pretreatment with serum exosomes derived from mice subjected to CLP significantly restrained proinflammatory cytokine expression and alleviated tissue injury in septic mice. Further metabolomics analysis demonstrated that pretreatment with septic serum exosomes significantly affected the metabolites associated with vitamin digestion and absorption in CLP mice. CONCLUSION: Our study for the first time describes the landscape of the molecular dynamics of serum exosomes during the development of sepsis and proposes some hypothetical molecular mechanisms by integrative multiomics analysis, which may provide helpful diagnostic and therapeutic insights for the ongoing battle against sepsis.
PXD033775	35778945	Transcriptome-proteome compendium of the Antarctic krill (Euphausia superba): Metabolic potential and repertoire of hydrolytic enzymes. 	Proteome compendium of the Antarctic krill (Euphausia superba)	Antarctic krill, Euphausia superba	The Antarctic krill (Euphausia superba Dana) is a keystone species in the Southern Ocean that uses an arsenal of hydrolases for biomacromolecule decomposition to effectively digest its omnivorous diet. The present study builds on a hybrid-assembled transcriptome (13,671 ORFs) combined with comprehensive proteome profiling. The analysis of individual krill compartments allowed detection of significantly more different proteins compared to that of the entire animal (1464 vs. 294 proteins). The nearby krill sampling stations in the Bransfield Strait (Antarctic Peninsula) yielded rather uniform proteome datasets. Proteins related to energy production and lipid degradation were particularly abundant in the abdomen, agreeing with the high energy demand of muscle tissue. A total of 378 different biomacromolecule hydrolysing enzymes were detected, including 250 proteases, 99 CAZymes, 14 nucleases and 15 lipases. The large repertoire in proteases is in accord with the protein-rich diet affiliated with E. superba's omnivorous lifestyle and complex biology. The richness in chitin-degrading enzymes allows not only digestion of zooplankton diet, but also the utilisation of the discharged exoskeleton after moulting.
PXD034163	35779611	Chlorpyrifos oxon crosslinking of amyloid beta 42 peptides is a new route for generation of self-aggregating amyloidogenic oligomers that promote Alzheimer's disease. 	Chlorpyrifos oxon crosslinking of amyloid beta 42 peptides is a new route for generation of self-aggregating amyloidogenic oligomers that promote Alzheimer's disease	amyloid beta, chlorpyrifos oxon, crosslinks, isopeptide	Epidemiological evidence suggests that people chronically exposed to organophosphorus pesticides are at increased risk of neurodegenerative disease. Covalently linked amyloid beta dimers have been isolated from the brains of Alzheimer's patients. The toxic forms of amyloid beta are amyloid dimers that spontaneously oligomerize. In the present report we treated recombinant and synthetic amyloid beta (1-42) with 1 mM chlorpyrifos oxon or 1 mM paraoxon. The trypsin-digested samples were analyzed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry on an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos mass spectrometer. Data were searched with Protein Prospector software. We found two new types of crosslinks in amyloid dimers. An isopeptide Asp-Asp link occurred between the N-terminal amine of Asp 1 in one peptide and the beta carboxyl group of Asp 1 in another peptide. An Asp-Arg link occurred between the guanidino group of Arg 5 in one peptide and the beta carboxyl group of Asp 1 in another peptide. These results show that the active metabolites of the pesticides chlorpyrifos and parathion catalyze the crosslinking of amyloid beta (1-42) into toxic dimers. It was concluded that the increased risk of neurodegenerative disease in people exposed to organophosphorus pesticides could be explained by the crosslinking activity of these chemicals. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD034163.
PXD035246	35779773	Local depletion of proteoglycans mediates cartilage tissue repair in an ex vivo integration model. 	Local depletion of proteoglycans mediates cartilage tissue repair in an ex vivo integration model	Cartilage repair, catabolic enzyme, proteoglycan depletion, tissue engineering	Successfully replacing damaged cartilage with tissue-engineered constructs requires integration with the host tissue and could benefit from leveraging the native tissue's intrinsic healing capacity; however, efforts are limited by a poor understanding of how cartilage repairs minor defects. Here, we investigated the conditions that foster natural cartilage tissue repair to identify strategies that might be exploited to enhance the integration of engineered/grafted cartilage with host tissue. We damaged porcine articular cartilage explants and using a combination of pulsed SILAC-based proteomics, ultrastructural imaging, and catabolic enzyme blocking strategies reveal that integration of damaged cartilage surfaces is not driven by neo-matrix synthesis, but rather local depletion of proteoglycans. ADAMTS4 expression and activity are upregulated in injured cartilage explants, but integration could be reduced by inhibiting metalloproteinase activity with TIMP3. These observations suggest that catabolic enzyme-mediated proteoglycan depletion likely allows existing collagen fibrils to undergo cross-linking, fibrillogenesis, or entanglement, driving integration. Catabolic enzymes are often considered pathophysiological markers of osteoarthritis. Our findings suggest that damage-induced upregulation of metalloproteinase activity may be a part of a healing response that tips towards tissue destruction under pathological conditions and in osteoarthritis, but could also be harnessed in tissue engineering strategies to mediate repair. STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE: Cartilage tissue engineering strategies require graft integration with the surrounding tissue; however, how the native tissue repairs minor injuries is poorly understood. We applied pulsed SILAC-based proteomics, ultrastructural imaging, and catabolic enzyme blocking strategies to a porcine cartilage explant model and found that integration of damaged cartilage surfaces is driven by catabolic enzyme-mediated local depletion of proteoglycans. Although catabolic enzymes have been implicated in cartilage destruction in osteoarthritis, our findings suggest that damage-induced upregulation of metalloproteinase activity may be a part of a healing response that tips towards tissue destruction under pathological conditions. They also suggest that this natural cartilage tissue repair process could be harnessed in tissue engineering strategies to enhance the integration of engineered cartilage with host tissue.
PXD034638	35780157	Spermidine reduces neuroinflammation and soluble amyloid beta in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model. 	Spermidine reduces neuroinflammation and soluble amyloid beta in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model	Alzheimer's disease, autophagy, dietary supplement, liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry, microglia, neuroinflammation, phagocytosis, spermidine	BACKGROUND: Deposition of amyloid beta (Abeta) and hyperphosphorylated tau along with glial cell-mediated neuroinflammation are prominent pathogenic hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In recent years, impairment of autophagy has been identified as another important feature contributing to AD progression. Therefore, the potential of the autophagy activator spermidine, a small body-endogenous polyamine often used as dietary supplement, was assessed on Abeta pathology and glial cell-mediated neuroinflammation. RESULTS: Oral treatment of the amyloid prone AD-like APPPS1 mice with spermidine reduced neurotoxic soluble Abeta and decreased AD-associated neuroinflammation. Mechanistically, single nuclei sequencing revealed AD-associated microglia to be the main target of spermidine. This microglia population was characterized by increased AXL levels and expression of genes implicated in cell migration and phagocytosis. A subsequent proteome analysis of isolated microglia confirmed the anti-inflammatory and cytoskeletal effects of spermidine in APPPS1 mice. In primary microglia and astrocytes, spermidine-induced autophagy subsequently affected TLR3- and TLR4-mediated inflammatory processes, phagocytosis of Abeta and motility. Interestingly, spermidine regulated the neuroinflammatory response of microglia beyond transcriptional control by interfering with the assembly of the inflammasome. CONCLUSIONS: Our data highlight that the autophagy activator spermidine holds the potential to enhance Abeta degradation and to counteract glia-mediated neuroinflammation in AD pathology.
PXD026780	35781533	The splicing factor RBM17 drives leukemic stem cell maintenance by evading nonsense-mediated decay of pro-leukemic factors. 	Proteomics analysis for RBM17 in acute myeloid leukemia	AML, EIF4A2, RBM17, acute myeloid leukemia, splicing	Chemo-resistance in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients is driven by leukemic stem cells (LSCs) resulting in high rates of relapse and low overall survival. Here, we demonstrate that upregulation of the splicing factor, RBM17 preferentially marks and sustains LSCs and directly correlates with shorten patient survival. RBM17 knockdown in primary AML cells leads to myeloid differentiation and impaired colony formation and in vivo engraftment. Integrative multi-omics analyses show that RBM17 repression leads to inclusion of poison exons and production of nonsense-mediated decay (NMD)-sensitive transcripts for pro-leukemic factors and the translation initiation factor, EIF4A2. We show that EIF4A2 is enriched in LSCs and its inhibition impairs primary AML progenitor activity. Proteomic analysis of EIF4A2-depleted AML cells shows recapitulation of the RBM17 knockdown biological effects, including pronounced suppression of proteins involved in ribosome biogenesis. Overall, these results provide a rationale to target RBM17 and/or its downstream NMD-sensitive splicing substrates for AML treatment.
PXD031721	35782537	Breast Meat Fatty Acid Profiling and Proteomic Analysis of Beijing-You Chicken During the Laying Period. 	Breast meat fatty acid profiling and proteomic analysis of Beijing-You chicken during the laying period	Beijing-You chicken, TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis, fatty acid, laying period, parallel reaction monitoring, pectoralis major	The disparity in fatty acids (FA) composition exhibits a significant impact on meat quality, however, the molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying this trait in chicken are far from clear. In this study, a total of 45 female Beijing-You chicken (BYC) hens, fed on the same diet, were collected at the slaughter age of 150, 300, or 450 days (D150, D300, and D450) from sexual maturation stage to culling stage (15 birds per age). Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and tandem mass tag labeling technology based on liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (TMT-LC-MS/MS) analysis strategies were applied to profile FA compositions and to compare differential expressed proteins (DEPs) between these different slaughter ages, respectively. The FA profiling showed that increasing hen ages resulted in increased contents of both saturated and unsaturated fatty acids. Proteomic analyses showed a total of 4,935 proteins in chicken breast muscle with the false discovery rate (FDR) < 1% and 664 of them were differentially expressed (fold change > 1.50 or < 0.67 and P < 0.01). There were 410 up- and 116 down-regulated proteins in D150 vs. D300 group, 32 up- and 20 down-regulated in D150 vs. D450 group, and 72 up- and 241 down-regulated in D300 vs. D450 group. A total of 57 DEPs related to FA/lipid-related metabolisms were obtained according to the enrichment analysis of Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG). These DEPs were involved in 21 significantly enriched (P < 0.05) pathways, including well-known pathways for FA synthesis (metabolism, desaturation, and elongation) and the signaling pathways for lipid metabolism (PPAR, adipocytokine, calcium, VEGF, MAPK, and Wnt). In addition, there existed several representative DEPs (FABP, FABP3, apoA-I, apoA-IV, apoC-III, apoB, VTG1, and VTG2) involved in the regulation of FA/lipid transportation. The construction of the interaction networks indicated that HADH, ACAA2, HADHA, ACSL1, CD36, CPT1A, PPP3R1, and SPHK1 were the key core nodes. Finally, eight DEPs were quantified using parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) to validate the results from TMT analysis. These results expanded our understanding of how the laying age affects the FA compositions and metabolism in hen breast meat.
PXD032872	35784282	Analysis of Hepatic Lipid Metabolism and Immune Function During the Development of Collagen-Induced Arthritis. 	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis of  CIA rats	CIA, Proteomics Analysis, liver	The liver is essential for metabolic and immune functions and has been linked to systemic inflammatory diseases. However, the role of the liver is still elusive during the development of rheumatoid arthritis (RA), although there have been indeed some reports. We used label-free quantitative proteomics and experimental verification in this study to reveal the hepatic lipid metabolism and immune function during collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) development. The proteomics results revealed that the role of the liver differs in different phases of CIA rats. In terms of specific performance, hepatic lipid metabolism, which is primarily concerned with cholesterol, triacylglycerol, and phospholipid, was significantly influenced in the CIA induction phase, whereas the immune function, which includes binding of granulocytes, adhesion of immune cells, etc., was affected considerably at the peak phase of CIA rats compared to normal rats. Finally, the hepatic dynamic changes in CIA rats were further confirmed using targeted metabolomics and ELISA. We found that most fatty acids of the liver in the CIA induction phase were significantly decreased, and proteins related to complement activation and migration or adhesion of immune cells including C3, MMP-8, CTSZ, and S100A9 were significantly increased in the liver of CIA rats in the peak phase. Our findings indicated that the lipid metabolism and immune function of the liver were influenced in CIA rats. Thus, the conditions of the liver during RA development should be considered in therapeutic and nutritional interventions.
PXD031273	35785414	TRIM33 drives prostate tumor growth by stabilizing androgen receptor from Skp2-mediated degradation. 	Androgen receptor RIME in prostate cancer cells	RIME, androgen receptor, cofactors, prostate cancer	Androgen receptor (AR) is a master transcription factor that drives prostate cancer (PCa) development and progression. Alterations in the expression or activity of AR coregulators significantly impact the outcome of the disease. Using a proteomics approach, we identified the tripartite motif-containing 33 (TRIM33) as a novel transcriptional coactivator of AR. We demonstrate that TRIM33 facilitates AR chromatin binding to directly regulate a transcription program that promotes PCa progression. TRIM33 further stabilizes AR by protecting it from Skp2-mediated ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. We also show that TRIM33 is essential for PCa tumor growth by avoiding cell-cycle arrest and apoptosis, and TRIM33 knockdown sensitizes PCa cells to AR antagonists. In clinical analyses, we find TRIM33 upregulated in multiple PCa patient cohorts. Finally, we uncover an AR-TRIM33-coactivated gene signature highly expressed in PCa tumors and predict disease recurrence. Overall, our results reveal that TRIM33 is an oncogenic AR coactivator in PCa and a potential therapeutic target for PCa treatment.
PXD034454	35787656	Nano pom-poms prepared exosomes enable highly specific cancer biomarker detection. 	bladder cancer patient urine exosomes	bladder cancer, exosomes, urine	Extracellular vesicles (EVs), particularly nano-sized small EV exosomes, are emerging biomarker sources. However, due to heterogeneous populations secreted from diverse cell types, mapping exosome multi-omic molecular information specifically to their pathogenesis origin for cancer biomarker identification is still extraordinarily challenging. Herein, we introduced a novel 3D-structured nanographene immunomagnetic particles (NanoPoms) with unique flower pom-poms morphology and photo-click chemistry for specific marker-defined capture and release of intact exosome. This specific exosome isolation approach leads to the expanded identification of targetable cancer biomarkers with enhanced specificity and sensitivity, as demonstrated by multi-omic exosome analysis of bladder cancer patient tissue fluids using the next generation sequencing of somatic DNA mutations, miRNAs, and the global proteome (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD034454). The NanoPoms prepared exosomes also exhibit distinctive in vivo biodistribution patterns, highlighting the highly viable and integral quality. The developed method is simple and straightforward, which is applicable to nearly all types of biological fluids and amenable for enrichment, scale up, and high-throughput exosome isolation.
PXD033588	35787945	A deeper insight into the sialome of male and female Ochlerotatus triseriatus mosquitoes. 	Ochlerotatus triseriatus saliva proteome	label-free quantification, mosquito, saliva	Over the last 20 years, advancements in sequencing technologies have highlighted the unique composition of the salivary glands of blood-feeding arthropods. Further biochemical and structural data demonstrated that salivary proteins can disrupt host hemostasis, inflammation and immunity, which favors pathogen transmission. Previously, a Sanger-based sialome of adult Ochlerotatus triseriatus female salivary glands was published based on 731 expressed sequence tag (ESTs). Here, we revisited O. triseriatus salivary gland contents using an Illumina-based sequencing approach of both male and female tissues. In the current data set, we report 10,317 DNA coding sequences classified into several functional classes. The translated transcripts also served as a reference database for proteomic analysis of O. triseriatus female saliva, in which unique peptides from 101 proteins were found. Finally, comparison of male and female libraries allowed for the identification of female-enriched transcripts that are potentially related to blood acquisition and virus transmission.
PXD030285	35788065	Limited Evidence for Protein Products of Noncoding Transcripts in the HEK293T Cellular Cytosol. 	Check of selected NTR peptide spectra by comparison with synthetic peptides	ATIS, COFRADIC, HEK293T, N-terminal enrichment, NTR, cells, cytosol	Ribosome profiling has revealed translation outside canonical coding sequences, including translation of short upstream ORFs, long noncoding RNAs, overlapping ORFs, ORFs in UTRs, or ORFs in alternative reading frames. Studies combining mass spectrometry, ribosome profiling, and CRISPR-based screens showed that hundreds of ORFs derived from noncoding transcripts produce (micro)proteins, whereas other studies failed to find evidence for such types of noncanonical translation products. Here, we attempted to discover translation products from noncoding regions by strongly reducing the complexity of the sample prior to mass spectrometric analysis. We used an extended database as the search space and applied stringent filtering of the identified peptides to find evidence for novel translation events. We show that, theoretically our strategy facilitates the detection of translation events of transcripts from noncoding regions but experimentally only find 19 peptides that might originate from such translation events. Finally, Virotrap-based interactome analysis of two N-terminal proteoforms originating from noncoding regions showed the functional potential of these novel proteins.
PXD029397	35789842	Genomic erosion and horizontal gene transfer shape functional differences of the ExlA toxin in Pseudomonas spp. 	Mass spectrometry-based characterization of secretomes from different strains of Pseudomonas chlororaphis and Pseudomonas entomophila.	Pseudomonas, nanoLC-MS/MS, secretome	Two-partner secretion (TPS) is widespread in the bacterial world. The pore-forming TPS toxin ExlA of Pseudomonas aeruginosa is conserved in pathogenic and environmental Pseudomonas. While P. chlororaphis and P. entomophila displayed ExlA-dependent killing, P. putida did not cause damage to eukaryotic cells. ExlA proteins interacted with epithelial cell membranes; however, only ExlA Pch induced the cleavage of the adhesive molecule E-cadherin. ExlA proteins participated in insecticidal activity toward the larvae of Galleria mellonella and the fly Drosophila melanogaster. Evolutionary analyses demonstrated that the differences in the C-terminal domains are partly due to horizontal movements of the operon within the genus Pseudomonas. Reconstruction of the evolutionary history revealed the complex horizontal acquisitions. Together, our results provide evidence that conserved TPS toxins in environmental Pseudomonas play a role in bacteria-insect interactions and discrete differences in CTDs may determine their specificity and mode of action toward eukaryotic cells.
PXD032035	35792438	SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 reshapes the ER through forming mixed disulfides with ER oxidoreductases. 	SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 interactome in the secretory pathway	2-D gel, ORF8, endoplasmic reticulum	The replication machinery of the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is closely associated with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in host cells. Activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) is a strategy hijacked by coronavirus to facilitate its replication and suppress host innate immunity. Here, we have found that SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 protein accumulates in the ER and escapes the degradation system by forming mixed disulfide complexes with ER oxidoreductases. ORF8 induces the activation of three UPR pathways through targeting key UPR components, remodels ER morphology and accelerates protein trafficking. Moreover, small molecule reducing agents release ORF8 from the mixed disulfide complexes and facilitate its degradation, therefore mitigate ER stress. Our study reveals a unique mechanism by which SARS-CoV-2 ORF8 escapes degradation by host cells and regulates ER reshaping. Targeting ORF8-involved mixed disulfide complexes could be a new strategy to alleviate SARS-CoV-2 induced ER stress and related diseases.
PXD033004	35792701	DFT-Guided Discovery of Ethynyl-Triazolyl-Phosphinates as Modular Electrophiles for Chemoselective Cysteine Bioconjugation and Profiling. 	Ethynyl-1,2,3-triazolyl-phosphinate based electrophiles for cysteine labelling	Chemical Proteomics, protein cross-linking	We report the density functional theory (DFT) guided discovery of ethynyl-triazolyl-phosphinates (ETPs) as a new class of electrophilic warheads for cysteine selective bioconjugation. By using Cu(I) -catalysed azide alkyne cycloaddition (CuAAC) in aqueous buffer, we were able to access a variety of functional electrophilic building blocks, including proteins, from diethynyl-phosphinate. ETP-reagents were used to obtain fluorescent peptide-conjugates for receptor labelling on live cells and a stable and a biologically active antibody-drug-conjugate. Moreover, we were able to incorporate ETP-electrophiles into an azide-containing ubiquitin under native conditions and demonstrate their potential in protein-protein conjugation. Finally, we showcase the excellent cysteine-selectivity of this new class of electrophile in mass spectrometry based, proteome-wide cysteine profiling, underscoring the applicability in homogeneous bioconjugation strategies to connect two complex biomolecules.
PXD010613	35793793	Uncovering Hidden Members and Functions of the Soil Microbiome Using De Novo Metaproteomics. 	DeNovo Peptide Identification Deep Learning Test Set	bacterial diversity, deep learning, machine learning	Metaproteomics has been increasingly utilized for high-throughput characterization of proteins in complex environments and has been demonstrated to provide insights into microbial composition and functional roles. However, significant challenges remain in metaproteomic data analysis, including creation of a sample-specific protein sequence database. A well-matched database is a requirement for successful metaproteomics analysis, and the accuracy and sensitivity of PSM identification algorithms suffer when the database is incomplete or contains extraneous sequences. When matched DNA sequencing data of the sample is unavailable or incomplete, creating the proteome database that accurately represents the organisms in the sample is a challenge. Here, we leverage a de novo peptide sequencing approach to identify the sample composition directly from metaproteomic data. First, we created a deep learning model, Kaiko, to predict the peptide sequences from mass spectrometry data and trained it on 5 million peptide-spectrum matches from 55 phylogenetically diverse bacteria. After training, Kaiko successfully identified organisms from soil isolates and synthetic communities directly from proteomics data. Finally, we created a pipeline for metaproteome database generation using Kaiko. We tested the pipeline on native soils collected in Kansas, showing that the de novo sequencing model can be employed as an alternative and complementary method to construct the sample-specific protein database instead of relying on (un)matched metagenomes. Our pipeline identified all highly abundant taxa from 16S rRNA sequencing of the soil samples and uncovered several additional species which were strongly represented only in proteomic data.
PXD027792	35793904	The Trypanosoma brucei RNA-binding protein DRBD18 ensures correct mRNA trans splicing and polyadenylation patterns. 	Proteins interacting with ZC3H28 and DRBD18	RNA-binding proteins, Trypanosoma brucei, post-transcriptional regulation	The parasite Trypanosoma brucei grows as bloodstream forms in mammals, and as procyclic forms in tsetse flies. Transcription is polycistronic, all mRNAs are trans spliced, and polyadenylation sites are defined by downstream splicing signals. Expression regulation therefore depends heavily on post-transcriptional mechanisms. The RNA-binding protein DRBD18 was previously implicated in the export of some mRNAs from the nucleus in procyclic forms. It copurifies the outer ring of the nuclear pore, mRNA export factors and exon-junction-complex proteins. We show that for more than 200 mRNAs, DRBD18 depletion caused preferential accumulation of versions with shortened 3'-untranslated regions, arising from use of polyadenylation sites that were either undetectable or rarely seen in nondepleted cells. The shortened mRNAs were often, but not always, more abundant in depleted cells than the corresponding longer versions in normal cells. Their appearance was linked to the appearance of trans-spliced, polyadenylated RNAs containing only downstream 3'-untranslated region-derived sequences. Experiments with one mRNA suggested that nuclear retention alone, through depletion of MEX67, did not affect mRNA length, suggesting a specific effect of DRBD18 on processing. DRBD18-bound mRNAs were enriched in polypyrimidine tract motifs, and DRBD18 was found in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm. We therefore suggest that in the nucleus, DRBD18 might bind to polypyrimidine tracts in 3'-UTRs of mRNA precursors. Such binding might both prevent recognition of mRNA-internal polypyrimidine tracts by splicing factors, and promote export of the processed bound mRNAs to the cytosol.
PXD031628	35794176	People with HIV have higher percentages of circulating CCR5+ CD8+ T cells and lower percentages of CCR5+ regulatory T cells. 	People with HIV have higher percentages of circulating CCR5+ CD8+ T cells and lower percentages of CCR5+ regulatory T cells	CCR5, HIV-1, inflammation, persistent infection	CCR5 is the main HIV co-receptor. We aimed to (1) compare CCR5 expression on immune cells between people living with HIV (PLHIV) using combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) and HIV-uninfected controls, (2) relate CCR5 expression to viral reservoir size and (3) assess determinants of CCR5 expression. This cross-sectional study included 209 PLHIV and 323 controls. Percentages of CCR5+ cells (%) and CCR5 mean fluorescence intensity assessed by flow cytometry in monocytes and lymphocyte subsets were correlated to host factors, HIV-1 cell-associated (CA)-RNA and CA-DNA, plasma inflammation markers and metabolites. Metabolic pathways were identified. PLHIV displayed higher percentages of CCR5+ monocytes and several CD8+ T cell subsets, but lower percentages of CCR5+ naive CD4+ T cells and regulatory T cells (Tregs). HIV-1 CA-DNA and CA-RNA correlated positively with percentages of CCR5+ lymphocytes. Metabolome analysis revealed three pathways involved in energy metabolism associated with percentage of CCR5+ CD8+ T cells in PLHIV. Our results indicate that CCR5 is differently expressed on various circulating immune cells in PLHIV. Hence, cell-trafficking of CD8+ T cells and Tregs may be altered in PLHIV. Associations between energy pathways and percentage of CCR5+ CD8+ T cells in PLHIV suggest higher energy demand of these cells in PLHIV.
PXD033460	35794369	Allergen protease-activated stress granule assembly and gasdermin D fragmentation control interleukin-33 secretion. 	Mass spectrometry analyzed human IL-33 interaction networks under various stimulations	IL-33	Interleukin-33 (IL-33), an epithelial cell-derived cytokine that responds rapidly to environmental insult, has a critical role in initiating airway inflammatory diseases. However, the molecular mechanism underlying IL-33 secretion following allergen exposure is not clear. Here, we found that two cell events were fundamental for IL-33 secretion after exposure to allergens. First, stress granule assembly activated by allergens licensed the nuclear-cytoplasmic transport of IL-33, but not the secretion of IL-33. Second, a neo-form murine amino-terminal p40 fragment gasdermin D (Gsdmd), whose generation was independent of inflammatory caspase-1 and caspase-11, dominated cytosolic secretion of IL-33 by forming pores in the cell membrane. Either the blockade of stress granule assembly or the abolishment of p40 production through amino acid mutation of residues 309-313 (ELRQQ) could efficiently prevent the release of IL-33 in murine epithelial cells. Our findings indicated that targeting stress granule disassembly and Gsdmd fragmentation could reduce IL-33-dependent allergic airway inflammation.
PXD032795	35794554	Hik28-dependent and Hik28-independent ABC transporters were revealed by proteome-wide analysis of DeltaHik28 under combined stress. 	Synechocystis-Hik28 stress response	Hik28, Synechocystis, stress response, two component sysstem	Synechocystis histidine kinase, Sll0474: Hik28, a signal protein in a two-component signal transduction system, plays a critical role in responding to a decrease in growth temperature and is also involved in nitrogen metabolism. In the present study, under combined stress from non-optimal growth temperature and nitrogen depletion, a comparative proteomic analysis of the wild type (WT) and a deletion mutant (MT) of Synechocystis histidine kinase, Sll0474: Hik28, in a two-component signal transduction system identified the specific groups of ABC transporters that were Hik28-dependent, e.g., the iron transporter, and Hik28-independent, e.g., the phosphate transporter. The iron transporter, AfuA, was found to be upregulated only in the WT strain grown under the combined stress of high temperature and nitrogen depletion. Whereas, the expression level of the phosphate transporter, PstS, was increased in both the WT and MT strains. Moreover, the location in the genome of the genes encoding Hik28 and ABC transporters in Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 were analyzed in parallel with the comparative proteomic data. The results suggested the regulation of the ABC transporters by the gene in a two-component system located in an adjacent location in the genome.
PXD030622	35795219	Comprehensive Plasma N-Glycoproteome Profiling Based on EThcD-sceHCD-MS/MS. 	Comprehensive human plasma N-glycoproteome profiling based on EThcD-sceHCD-MS/MS	Combinatorial Peptide Ligands Library, EThcD-sceHCD, Human plasma, N-glycoproteomics	Glycoproteins are involved in a variety of biological processes. More than one-third of the plasma protein biomarkers of tumors approved by the FDA are glycoproteins, and could improve the diagnostic specificity and/or sensitivity. Therefore, it is of great significance to perform the systematic characterization of plasma N-glycoproteome. In previous studies, we developed an integrated method based on the combinatorial peptide ligand library (CPLL) and stepped collision energy/higher energy collisional dissociation (sceHCD) for comprehensive plasma N-glycoproteome profiling. Recently, we presented a new fragmentation method, EThcD-sceHCD, which outperformed sceHCD in the accuracy of identification. Herein, we integrated the combinatorial peptide ligand library (CPLL) into EThcD-sceHCD and compared the performance of different mass spectrometry dissociation methods (EThcD-sceHCD, EThcD, and sceHCD) in the intact N-glycopeptide analysis of prostate cancer plasma. The results illustrated that EThcD-sceHCD was better than EThcD and sceHCD in the number of identified intact N-glycopeptides (two-folds). A combination of sceHCD and EThcD-sceHCD methods can cover almost all glycoproteins (96.4%) and intact N-glycopeptides (93.6%), indicating good complementarity between the two. Our study has great potential for medium- and low-abundance plasma glycoprotein biomarker discovery.
PXD019498	35796018	Oncogenic gain of function due to p53 amyloids occurs through aberrant alteration of cell cycle and proliferation. 	p53 amyloid induced cellular transformation and tumor formation in the mouse xenograft model	Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ), amyloid, cancer initiation, p53, tumorigenesis	Transcription factor p53 (also known as TP53) has been shown to aggregate into cytoplasmic and nuclear inclusions, compromising its native tumor suppressive functions. Recently, p53 has been shown to form amyloids, which play a role in conferring cancerous properties to cells, leading to tumorigenesis. However, the exact pathways involved in p53 amyloid-mediated cellular transformations are unknown. Here, using an in cellulo model of full-length p53 amyloid formation, we demonstrate the mechanism of loss of p53 tumor-suppressive function with concomitant oncogenic gain of functions. Global gene expression profiling of cells suggests that p53 amyloid formation dysregulates genes associated with the cell cycle, proliferation, apoptosis and senescence along with major signaling pathways. This is further supported by a proteome analysis, showing a significant alteration in levels of p53 target proteins and enhanced metabolism, which enables the survival of cells. Our data indicate that specifically targeting the key molecules in pathways affected by p53 amyloid formation, such as cyclin-dependent kinase-1, leads to loss of the oncogenic phenotype and induces apoptosis of cells. Overall, our work establishes the mechanism of the transformation of cells due to p53 amyloids leading to cancer pathogenesis. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD031926	35797180	Top-Down Detection of Oxidative Protein Footprinting by Collision-Induced Dissociation, Electron-Transfer Dissociation, and Electron-Capture Dissociation. 	Top-down detection of oxidative protein footprinting by Collision-Induced Dissociation, Electron-Transfer Dissociation and Electron-Capture Dissociation	Fast photochemical oxidation of proteins, collision-induced dissociation, electron-capture dissociation, electron-transfer dissociation, mass spectrometry., top-down	Fast photochemical oxidation of proteins (FPOP) footprinting is a structural mass spectrometry method that maps proteins by fast and irreversible chemical reactions. The position of oxidative modification reflects solvent accessibility and site reactivity and thus provides information about protein conformation, structural dynamics, and interactions. Bottom-up mass spectrometry is an established standard method to analyze FPOP samples. In the bottom-up approach, all forms of the protein are digested together by a protease of choice, which results in a mixture of peptides from various subpopulations of proteins with varying degrees of photochemical oxidation. Here, we investigate the possibility to analyze a specifically selected population of only singly oxidized proteins. This requires utilization of more specific top-down mass spectrometry approaches. The key element of any top-down experiment is the selection of a suitable method of ion isolation, excitation, and fragmentation. Here, we employ and compare collision-induced dissociation, electron-transfer dissociation, and electron-capture dissociation combined with multi-continuous accumulation of selected ions. A singly oxidized subpopulation of FPOP-labeled ubiquitin was used to optimize the method. The top-down approach in FPOP is limited to smaller proteins, but its usefulness was demonstrated by using it to visualize structural changes induced by co-factor removal from the holo/apo myoglobin system. The top-down data were compared with the literature and with the bottom-up data set obtained on the same samples. The top-down results were found to be in good agreement, which indicates that monitoring a singly oxidized FPOP ion population by the top-down approach is a functional workflow for oxidative protein footprinting.
PXD030688	35797239	Quantitative Chemoproteomic Profiling of Protein Cross-Links Induced by Methylglyoxal. 	Quantitative chemoproteomic profiling of protein crosslinks induced by methylglyoxal	Chemical proteomics, IMPDH2, Methylglyoxal, Protein crosslinks, Reactive metabolite	Methylglyoxal (MGO) is a highly reactive metabolite mainly formed as a byproduct of glycolysis. Elevated MGO has been considered as a risk factor for several diseases including diabetes and neurodegeneration. While MGO modifications on proteins were globally profiled, the cross-links between proteins induced by MGO in proteomes are unexplored to date. Here, we reported a quantitative chemoproteomic platform based on mass shifts that enables identification of events of protein cross-links induced by MGO in proteomes. A total of 66 cross-linked targets were identified from the profiling experiments when cells were treated with MGO, among which the components of functional complexes such as spliceosomes and ribosomes were enriched. We found that inosine-5'-monophosphate dehydrogenase 2 (IMPDH2) was homocross-linked by MGO and the active-site Cys331 was critical for mediating the cross-link, which in turn affected IMPDH2's activity. Our study has provided new clues for the functional impact in proteomes by MGO, and the methodology can be, in principle, applied to profile protein cross-links induced by other reactive metabolites.
PXD029705	35798141	The p97 segregase cofactor Ubxn7 facilitates replisome disassembly during S-phase. 	Immunoprecipitation of p97 from X.laevis S-phase chromatin	DNA replication, VCP, Xenopus laevis, p97, replisome disassembly	Complex cellular processes are driven by the regulated assembly and disassembly of large multiprotein complexes. While we are beginning to understand the molecular mechanism for assembly of the eukaryotic DNA replication machinery (replisome), we still know relatively little about the regulation of its disassembly at replication termination. Recently, the first elements of this process have emerged, revealing that the replicative helicase, at the heart of the replisome, is polyubiquitylated prior to unloading and that this unloading requires p97 segregase activity. Two different E3 ubiquitin ligases have now been shown to ubiquitylate the helicase under different conditions: Cul2(Lrr1) and TRAIP. Here, using Xenopus laevis egg extract cell-free system and biochemical approaches, we have found two p97 cofactors, Ubxn7 and Faf1, which can interact with p97 during replisome disassembly during S-phase. We show only Ubxn7, however, facilitates efficient replisome disassembly. Ubxn7 delivers this role through its interaction via independent domains with both Cul2(Lrr1) and p97 to allow coupling between Mcm7 ubiquitylation and its removal from chromatin. Our data therefore characterize Ubxn7 as the first substrate-specific p97 cofactor regulating replisome disassembly in vertebrates and a rationale for the efficacy of the Cul2(Lrr1) replisome unloading pathway in unperturbed S-phase.
PXD031342	35798142	The structural dynamics of full-length divisome transmembrane proteins FtsQ, FtsB, and FtsL in FtsQBL complex formation. 	The structural dynamics of full length divisome transmembrane proteins FtsQ, FtsB, and FtsL in FtsQBL complex formation	Ddivisome, FtsB, FtsL, FtsQ, HDX-MS, hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, membrane protein	FtsQBL is a transmembrane protein complex in the divisome of Escherichia coli that plays a critical role in regulating cell division. Although extensive efforts have been made to investigate the interactions between the three involved proteins, FtsQ, FtsB, and FtsL, the detailed interaction mechanism is still poorly understood. In this study, we used hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry to investigate these full-length proteins and their complexes. We also dissected the structural dynamic changes and the related binding interfaces within the complexes. Our data revealed that FtsB and FtsL interact at both the periplasmic and transmembrane regions to form a stable complex. Furthermore, the periplasmic region of FtsB underwent significant conformational changes. With the help of computational modeling, our results suggest that FtsBL complexation may bring the respective constriction control domains (CCDs) in close proximity. We show that when FtsBL adopts a coiled-coil structure, the CCDs are fixed at a vertical position relative to the membrane surface; thus, this conformational change may be essential for FtsBL's interaction with other divisome proteins. In the FtsQBL complex, intriguingly, we show only FtsB interacts with FtsQ at its C-terminal region, which stiffens a large area of the beta-domain of FtsQ. Consistent with this, we found the connection between the alpha- and beta-domains in FtsQ is also strengthened in the complex. Overall, the present study provides important experimental evidence detailing the local interactions between the full-length FtsB, FtsL, and FtsQ protein, as well as valuable insights into the roles of FtsQBL complexation in regulating divisome activity.
PXD031219	35798767	Identification of early biomarkers in saliva in genetically engineered mouse model C(3)1-TAg of breast cancer. 	Identification of early biomarkers in saliva in genetically engineered mouse model C(3)1-TAg of breast cancer	biomarker, breast cancer, mammary tumor, proteins, saliva	Breast cancer is one of leading causes of death worldwide in the female population. Deaths from breast cancer could be reduced significantly through earlier and more efficient detection of the disease. Saliva, an oral fluid that contains an abundance of protein biomarkers, has been recognized as a promising diagnostic biofluid that is easy to isolate through non-invasive techniques. Assays on saliva can be performed rapidly and are cost-effective. Therefore, our work aimed to identify salivary biomarkers present in the initial stages of breast cancer, where cell alterations are not yet detectable by histopathological analysis. Using state-of-the-art techniques, we employed a transgenic mouse model of mammary cancer to identify molecular changes in precancerous stage breast cancer through protein analysis in saliva. Through corroborative molecular approaches, we established that proteins related to metabolic changes, inflammatory process and cell matrix degradation are detected in saliva at the onset of tumor development. Our work demonstrated that salivary protein profiles can be used to identify cellular changes associated with precancerous stage breast cancer through non-invasive means even prior to biopsy-evident disease.
PXD031419	35799292	Distinct cell type-specific protein signatures in GRN and MAPT genetic subtypes of frontotemporal dementia. 	Distinct cell type-specific protein signatures in GRN and MAPT genetic subtypes of frontotemporal dementia	Frontotemporal dementia, GRN, MAPT, cell type enrichment, human brain proteomics	Frontotemporal dementia is characterized by progressive atrophy of frontal and/or temporal cortices at an early age of onset. The disorder shows considerable clinical, pathological, and genetic heterogeneity. Here we investigated the proteomic signatures of frontal and temporal cortex from brains with frontotemporal dementia due to GRN and MAPT mutations to identify the key cell types and molecular pathways in their pathophysiology. We compared patients with mutations in the GRN gene (n = 9) or with mutations in the MAPT gene (n = 13) with non-demented controls (n = 11). Using quantitative proteomic analysis on laser-dissected tissues we identified brain region-specific protein signatures for both genetic subtypes. Using published single cell RNA expression data resources we deduced the involvement of major brain cell types in driving these different protein signatures. Subsequent gene ontology analysis identified distinct genetic subtype- and cell type-specific biological processes. For the GRN subtype, we observed a distinct role for immune processes related to endothelial cells and for mitochondrial dysregulation in neurons. For the MAPT subtype, we observed distinct involvement of dysregulated RNA processing, oligodendrocyte dysfunction, and axonal impairments. Comparison with an in-house protein signature of Alzheimer's disease brains indicated that the observed alterations in RNA processing and oligodendrocyte function are distinct for the frontotemporal dementia MAPT subtype. Taken together, our results indicate the involvement of different brain cell types and biological mechanisms in genetic subtypes of frontotemporal dementia. Furthermore, we demonstrate that comparison of proteomic profiles of different disease entities can separate general neurodegenerative processes from disease-specific pathways, which may aid the development of disease subtype-specific treatment strategies.
PXD033144	35799787	Proteomic Analyses Reveal Higher Levels of Neutrophil Activation in Men Than in Women With Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. 	LC-MS of PBMC in SLE and healthy control	LC-MS, PBMC, SLE, gender	Objective: Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE) is a systemic autoimmune disease that displays a significant gender difference in terms of incidence and severity. However, the underlying mechanisms accounting for sexual dimorphism remain unclear. The aim of this work was to reveal the heterogeneity in the pathogenesis of SLE between male and female patients. Methods: PBMC were collected from 15 patients with SLE (7 males, 8 females) and 15 age-matched healthy controls (7 males, 8 females) for proteomic analysis. The proteins of interest were validated in independent samples (6 male SLE, 6 female SLE). Biomarkers for neutrophil activation (calprotectin), neutrophil extracellular traps (cell-free DNA and elastase), and reactive oxygen species (glutathione) were measured, using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, in plasma obtained from 52 individuals. Results: Enrichment analysis of proteomic data revealed that type I interferon signaling and neutrophil activation networks mapped to both male and female SLE, while male SLE has a higher level of neutrophil activation compared with female SLE. Western blot validated that PGAM1, BST2, and SERPINB10 involved in neutrophil activation are more abundant in male SLE than in female SLE. Moreover, biomarkers of neutrophil activation and reactive oxygen species were increased in male SLE compared with female SLE. Conclusion: Type I interferon activation is a common signature in both male and female SLE, while neutrophil activation is more prominent in male SLE compared with female SLE. Our findings define gender heterogeneity in the pathogenesis of SLE and may facilitate the development of gender-specific treatments.
PXD033991	35800753	Identification of lysine-lactylated substrates in gastric cancer cells. 	Identification of lysine-lactylated substrates in gastric cancer cells	Gastric carcinoma, Lysine lactylation, Prognosis	Cancer cells tend to utilize aerobic glycolysis to generate energy and metabolites; the end product of aerobic glycolysis is lactate, which promotes lysine lactylation (Kla). Kla is a newly discovered histone post-translational modification (PTM) that plays important roles in regulating gene expression. However, Kla in non-histone mammalian proteins is unclear. Here, a comprehensive analysis of lactylated proteins in gastric cancer AGS cells was conducted. There were 2375 Kla sites found in 1014 proteins. Interestingly, KEGG pathway analysis showed that these proteins were significantly enriched in spliceosome function. In addition, Kla was more abundant in gastric tumors than in adjacent tissues, and high levels of Kla in gastric tumors were associated with poor prognosis. These results suggest that Kla could be a prognostic marker in gastric cancer. This lysine lactylome analysis in gastric cancer cells, the first of its kind, provides a valuable foundation for further studies of Kla.
PXD026533	35800780	Ubiquitylation of RIPK3 beyond-the-RHIM can limit RIPK3 activity and cell death. 	Ubiquitylation of RIPK3 beyond-the-RHIM limits RIPK3 activity and cell death	MLKL, RIPK3, apoptosis, caspase-8, cell death, necroptosis, ubiquitin	Pathogen recognition and TNF receptors signal via receptor interacting serine/threonine kinase-3 (RIPK3) to cause cell death, including MLKL-mediated necroptosis and caspase-8-dependent apoptosis. However, the post-translational control of RIPK3 is not fully understood. Using mass-spectrometry, we identified that RIPK3 is ubiquitylated on K469. The expression of mutant RIPK3 K469R demonstrated that RIPK3 ubiquitylation can limit both RIPK3-mediated apoptosis and necroptosis. The enhanced cell death of overexpressed RIPK3 K469R and activated endogenous RIPK3 correlated with an overall increase in RIPK3 ubiquitylation. Ripk3 K469R/K469R mice challenged with Salmonella displayed enhanced bacterial loads and reduced serum IFNgamma. However, Ripk3 K469R/K469R macrophages and dermal fibroblasts were not sensitized to RIPK3-mediated apoptotic or necroptotic signaling suggesting that, in these cells, there is functional redundancy with alternate RIPK3 ubiquitin-modified sites. Consistent with this idea, the mutation of other ubiquitylated RIPK3 residues also increased RIPK3 hyper-ubiquitylation and cell death. Therefore, the targeted ubiquitylation of RIPK3 may act as either a brake or accelerator of RIPK3-dependent killing.
PXD035867	35802605	Quantitative proteomic landscapes of primary and recurrent glioblastoma reveal a protumorigeneic role for FBXO2-dependent glioma-microenvironment interactions. 	The FFPE samples of the primary vs. recurrent glioblastoma validation cohort	SWATH, glioblastoma, primary,recurrent	BACKGROUND: Recent efforts have described the evolution of glioblastoma from initial diagnosis to post-treatment recurrence on a genomic and transcriptomic level. However, the evolution of the proteomic landscape is largely unknown. METHODS: Sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS) was used to characterize the quantitative proteomes of two independent cohorts of paired newly diagnosed and recurrent glioblastomas. Recurrence-associated proteins were validated using immunohistochemistry and further studied in human glioma cell lines, orthotopic xenograft models, and human organotypic brain slice cultures. External spatial transcriptomic, single-cell, and bulk RNA sequencing data were analyzed to gain mechanistic insights. RESULTS: Although overall proteomic changes were heterogeneous across patients, we identified BCAS1, INF2, and FBXO2 as consistently upregulated proteins at recurrence and validated these using immunohistochemistry. Knockout of FBXO2 in human glioma cells conferred a strong survival benefit in orthotopic xenograft mouse models and reduced invasive growth in organotypic brain slice cultures. In glioblastoma patient samples, FBXO2 expression was enriched in the tumor infiltration zone and FBXO2-positive cancer cells were associated with synaptic signaling processes. CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate a potential role of FBXO2-dependent glioma-microenvironment interactions to promote tumor growth. Furthermore, the published datasets provide a valuable resource for further studies.
PXD028778	35803125	Protein palmitoylation-mediated palmitic acid sensing causes blood-testis barrier damage via inducing ER stress. 	Mouse sertoli cells Palmitoylated protein MS	MS, Palmitoylated protein, Sertoli cells	Blood-testis barrier (BTB) damage promotes spermatogenesis dysfunction, which is a critical cause of male infertility. Dyslipidemia has been correlated with male infertility, but the major hazardous lipid and the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we firstly discovered an elevation of palmitic acid (PA) and a decrease of inhibin B in patients with severe dyszoospermia, which leaded us to explore the effects of PA on Sertoli cells. We observed a damage of BTB by PA. PA penetration to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and its damage to ER structures were exhibited by microimaging and dynamic observation, and consequent ER stress was proved to mediate PA-induced Sertoli cell barrier disruption. Remarkably, we demonstrated a critical role of aberrant protein palmitoylation in PA-induced Sertoli cell barrier dysfunction. An ER protein, Calnexin, was screened out and was demonstrated to participate in this process, and suppression of its palmitoylation showed an ameliorating effect. We also found that omega-3 poly-unsaturated fatty acids down-regulated Calnexin palmitoylation, and alleviated BTB dysfunction. Our results indicate that dysregulated palmitoylation induced by PA plays a pivotal role in BTB disruption and subsequent spermatogenesis dysfunction, suggesting that protein palmitoylation might be therapeutically targetable in male infertility.
PXD029252	35803948	Mimicked synthetic ribosomal protein complex for benchmarking crosslinking mass spectrometry workflows. 	Mimicked synthetic ribosomal protein complex for benchmarking cross-linking mass spectrometry workflows	FDR, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, crosslinking, ribosome	Cross-linking mass spectrometry has matured to a frequently used tool for the investigation of protein structures as well as interactome studies up to a system-wide level. The growing community generated a broad spectrum of applications, linker types, acquisition strategies and specialized data analysis tools, which makes it challenging to decide for an appropriate analysis workflow. Here, we report a large and flexible synthetic peptide library as reliable instrument to benchmark crosslink workflows. Additionally, we provide a tool, IMP-X-FDR, that calculates the real, experimentally validated, FDR, compares results across search engine platforms and analyses crosslink properties in an automated manner. We apply the library with 6 commonly used linker reagents and analyse the data with 6 established search engines. We thereby show that the correct algorithm and search setting choice is highly important to improve identification rate and reliability. We reach identification rates of up to ~70 % of the theoretical maximum (i.e. 700 unique lysine-lysine cross-links) while maintaining a real false-discovery-rate of <3 % at cross-link level with high reproducibility, representatively showing that our test system delivers valuable and statistically solid results.
PXD028620	35804617	Proteomics Insights into the Gene Network of cis9, trans11-Conjugated Linoleic Acid Biosynthesis in Bovine Mammary Gland Epithelial Cells. 	Proteomics insights into the molecular mechanisms of c9, t11-CLA synthesis	Cis-9, Functional fatty acid, MAC-T cells, Stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1, trans-11-conjugated linoleic acid	The objective of the study was to elucidate the stearoyl-coenzyme A desaturase (SCD1)-dependent gene network of c9, t11-CLA biosynthesis in MAC-T cells from an energy metabolism perspective. The cells were divided into the CAY group (firstly incubated with CAY10566, a chemical inhibitor of SCD1, then incubated with trans-11-octadecenoic acid, (TVA)), the TVA group (only TVA), and the control group (without CAY, TVA). The c9, t11-CLA, and TVA contents were determined by gas chromatography. The mRNA levels of SCD1 and candidate genes were analyzed via real-time PCR. Tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics, bioinformatic analysis, parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), and small RNA interference were used to explore genes involved in the SCD1-dependent c9, t11-CLA biosynthesis. The results showed that the SCD1 deficiency led by CAY10566 blocked the biosynthesis of c9, t11-CLA. In total, 60 SCD1-related proteins mainly involved in energy metabolism pathways were primarily screened by TMT-based quantitative proteomics analysis. Moreover, 17 proteins were validated using PRM analysis. Then, 11 genes were verified to have negative relationships with SCD1 after the small RNA interference analysis. Based on the above results, we concluded that genes involved in energy metabolism pathways have an impact on the SCD1-dependent molecular mechanism of c9, t11-CLA biosynthesis.
PXD028254	35805116	Cytoplasmic LMO2-LDB1 Complex Activates STAT3 Signaling through Interaction with gp130-JAK in Glioma Stem Cells. 	Human LMO2 binding protein LC-MSMS in U87MG(Glioblastoma cell)	Glioblastoma, LMO2	The oncogenic role of nuclear LIM domain only 2 (LMO2) as a transcriptional regulator is well established, but its function in the cytoplasm is largely unknown. Here, we identified LMO2 as a cytoplasmic activator for signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) signaling in glioma stem cells (GSCs) through biochemical and bioinformatics analyses. LMO2 increases STAT3 phosphorylation by interacting with glycoprotein 130 (gp130) and Janus kinases (JAKs). LMO2-driven activation of STAT3 signaling requires the LDB1 protein and leads to increased expression of an inhibitor of differentiation 1 (ID1), a master regulator of cancer stemness. Our findings indicate that the cytoplasmic LMO2-LDB1 complex plays a crucial role in the activation of the GSC signaling cascade via interaction with gp130 and JAK1/2. Thus, LMO2-LDB1 is a bona fide oncogenic protein complex that activates either the JAK-STAT signaling cascade in the cytoplasm or direct transcriptional regulation in the nucleus.
PXD034264	35805136	Comprehensive Evaluation of Different TiO2-Based Phosphopeptide Enrichment and Fractionation Methods for Phosphoproteomics. 	Comprehensive evaluation of different TiO2-based phosphopeptide enrichment and fractionation methods for phosphoproteomics	phosphopeptide enrichment, phosphopeptide fractionation	Protein phosphorylation is an essential post-translational modification that regulates multiple cellular processes. Due to their low stoichiometry and ionization efficiency, it is critical to efficiently enrich phosphopeptides for phosphoproteomics. Several phosphopeptide enrichment methods have been reported; however, few studies have comprehensively compared different TiO2-based phosphopeptide enrichment methods using complex proteomic samples. Here, we compared four TiO2-based phosphopeptide enrichment methods that used four non-phosphopeptide excluders (glutamic acid, lactic acid, glycolic acid, and DHB). We found that these four TiO2-based phosphopeptide enrichment methods had different enrichment specificities and that phosphopeptides enriched by the four methods had different physicochemical characteristics. More importantly, we discovered that phosphopeptides had a higher deamidation ratio than peptides from cell lysate and that phosphopeptides enriched using the glutamic acid method had a higher deamidation ratio than the other three methods. We then compared two phosphopeptide fractionation methods: ammonia- or TEA-based high pH reversed-phase (HpH-RP). We found that fewer phosphopeptides, especially multi-phosphorylated peptides, were identified using the ammonia-based method than using the TEA-based method. Therefore, the TEA-based HpH-RP fractionation method performed better than the ammonia method. In conclusion, we comprehensively evaluated different TiO2-based phosphopeptide enrichment and fractionation methods, providing a basis for selecting the proper protocols for comprehensive phosphoproteomics.
PXD033595	35805153	Proteomics, Phosphoproteomics and Mirna Analysis of Circulating Extracellular Vesicles through Automated and High-Throughput Isolation. 	Proteomics, phosphoproteomics and miRNA analysis of circulating extracellular vesicles through automated and high-throughput isolation	Extracellular vesicles, miRNA, phosphoproteomics, prostate cancer	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) play an important role in the diagnosis and treatment of diseases because of their rich molecular contents involved in intercellular communication, regulation, and other functions. With increasing efforts to move the field of EVs to clinical applications, the lack of a practical EV isolation method from circulating biofluids with high throughput and good reproducibility has become one of the biggest barriers. Here, we introduce a magnetic bead-based EV enrichment approach (EVrich) for automated and high-throughput processing of urine samples. Parallel enrichments can be performed in 96-well plates for downstream cargo analysis, including EV characterization, miRNA, proteomics, and phosphoproteomics analysis. We applied the instrument to a cohort of clinical urine samples to achieve reproducible identification of an average of 17,000 unique EV peptides and an average of 2800 EV proteins in each 1 mL urine sample. Quantitative phosphoproteomics revealed 186 unique phosphopeptides corresponding to 48 proteins that were significantly elevated in prostate cancer patients. Among them, multiple phosphoproteins were previously reported to associate with prostate cancer. Together, EVrich represents a universal, scalable, and simple platform for EV isolation, enabling downstream EV cargo analyses for a broad range of research and clinical applications.
PXD031670	35806419	Morphological and Proteomic Analyses of Soybean Seedling Interaction Mechanism Affected by Fiber Crosslinked with Zinc-Oxide Nanoparticles. 	SK14_Soybean: Proteomic and morphological analyses of soybean grown with sheet including zinc nanoparticles	Soybean, zinc nanoparticles	Nanoparticles (NPs) enhance soybean growth; however, their precise mechanism is not clearly understood. To develop a more effective method using NPs for the enhancement of soybean growth, fiber crosslinked with zinc oxide (ZnO) NPs was prepared. The solution of ZnO NPs with 200 nm promoted soybean growth at the concentration of 10 ppm, while fibers crosslinked with ZnO NPs promoted growth at a 1 ppm concentration. Soybeans grown on fiber cross-linked with ZnO NPs had higher Zn content in their roots than those grown in ZnO NPs solution. To study the positive mechanism of fiber crosslinked with ZnO NPs on soybean growth, a proteomic technique was used. Proteins categorized in photosynthesis and secondary metabolism accumulated more in soybeans grown on fiber crosslinked with ZnO NPs than in those grown in ZnO NPs solution. Furthermore, significantly accumulated proteins, which were NADPH oxidoreductase and tubulins, were confirmed using immunoblot analysis. The abundance of NADPH oxidoreductase increased in soybean by ZnO NPs application. These results suggest that fiber crosslinked with ZnO NPs enhances soybean growth through the increase of photosynthesis and secondary metabolism. Additionally, the accumulation of NADPH oxidoreductase might relate to the effect of auxin with fiber crosslinked with ZnO NPs on soybean growth.
PXD014057	35807503	Analysis and Evaluation of the Flagellin Activity of Bacillus amyloliquefaciens Ba168 Antimicrobial Proteins against Penicillium expansum. 	Bacillus amyloliquefaciens Ba168 LC-MSMS	Ba168, Bacillus amyloliquefaciens	Blue mold caused by Penicillium expansum is one of the most common apple diseases, and it is becoming a serious threat in apple production. The strain Bacillus amyloliquefaciens Ba168 showed high levels of antimicrobial activity in our previous study. To analyze the antimicrobial protein of Ba168, a high-resolution LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis was performed. A total of 1155 proteins were identified from 5233 unique peptides. A total of 16 potential antimicrobial-activity-related proteins were identified; 10 of these proteins have direct antimicrobial effects, while 6 of these proteins are associated with the formation of antimicrobial substances. Then, an antifungal protein of Ba168 was isolated and purified by the sequential chromatography of DEAE Bio-sep FF anion exchange and Sephadex G-75. The single protein, named BP8-2, showed antifungal activity towards Penicillium expansum. The peptide mass fingerprinting of the protein band of BP8-2 had a high similarity with the amino acid sequences of flagellin protein. The results showed that BP8-2 significantly inhibited the growth of P. expansum and slowed the spread of apple blue mold. The results indicated that flagellin is one of the important antimicrobial substances from Ba168.
PXD032878	35809567	Src activation in lipid rafts confers epithelial cells with invasive potential to escape from apical extrusion during cell competition. 	Phosphotyrosine proteomics of MDCK cell	oncogenesis, phosphotyrosine proteomics	Abnormal/cancerous cells within healthy epithelial tissues undergo apical extrusion to protect against carcinogenesis, although they acquire invasive capacity once carcinogenesis progresses. However, the molecular mechanisms by which cancer cells escape from apical extrusion and invade surrounding tissues remain elusive. In this study, we demonstrate a molecular mechanism for cell fate switching during epithelial cell competition. We found that during competition within epithelial cell layers, Src transformation promotes maturation of focal adhesions and degradation of extracellular matrix. Src-transformed cells underwent basal delamination by Src activation within sphingolipid/cholesterol-enriched membrane microdomains/lipid rafts, whereas they were apically extruded when Src was outside of lipid rafts. A comparative analysis of contrasting phenotypes revealed that activation of the Src-STAT3-MMP axis through lipid rafts was required for basal delamination. CUB-domain-containing protein 1 (CDCP1) was identified as an Src-activating scaffold and as a Met regulator in lipid rafts, and its overexpression induced basal delamination. In renal cancer models, CDCP1 promoted epithelial-mesenchymal transition-mediated invasive behavior by activating the Src-STAT3-MMP axis through Met activation. Overall, these results suggest that spatial activation of Src signaling in lipid rafts confers resistance to apical extrusion and invasive potential on epithelial cells to promote carcinogenesis.
PXD033090	35810181	Ciliary transition zone proteins coordinate ciliary protein composition and ectosome shedding. 	ciliary proteins of Chlamydomonas	cilia, transition zone	The transition zone (TZ) of the cilium/flagellum serves as a diffusion barrier that controls the entry/exit of ciliary proteins. Mutations of the TZ proteins disrupt barrier function and lead to multiple human diseases. However, the systematic regulation of ciliary composition and signaling-related processes by different TZ proteins is not completely understood. Here, we reveal that loss of TCTN1 in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii disrupts the assembly of wedge-shaped structures in the TZ. Proteomic analysis of cilia from WT and three TZ mutants, tctn1, cep290, and nphp4, shows a unique role of each TZ subunit in the regulation of ciliary composition, explaining the phenotypic diversity of different TZ mutants. Interestingly, we find that defects in the TZ impair the formation and biological activity of ciliary ectosomes. Collectively, our findings provide systematic insights into the regulation of ciliary composition by TZ proteins and reveal a link between the TZ and ciliary ectosomes.
PXD031329	35811571	Profiling the 3D interaction between germ cell tumors and microenvironmental cells at the transcriptome and secretome level. 	Identification of factors secreted by testicular germ cell tumor cell lines and microenvironmental cells.	germ cell tumors, liquid chromatography coupled mass spectrometry, secretome, tumor microenvironment	The tumor microenvironment (TM), consisting of the extracellular matrix (ECM), fibroblasts, endothelial cells, and immune cells, might affect tumor invasiveness and the outcome of standard chemotherapy. This study investigated the cross talk between germ cell tumors (GCT) and surrounding TM cells (macrophages, T-lymphocytes, endothelial cells, and fibroblasts) at the transcriptome and secretome level. Using high-throughput approaches of three-dimensional (3D) co-cultured cellular aggregates, this study offers newly identified pathways to be studied with regard to sensitivity toward cisplatin-based chemotherapy or tumor invasiveness as a consequence of the cross talk between tumor cells and TM components. Mass-spectrometry-based secretome analyses revealed that TM cells secreted factors involved in ECM organization, cell adhesion, angiogenesis, and regulation of insulin-like growth factor (IGF) transport. To evaluate direct cell-cell contacts, green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing GCT cells and mCherry-expressing TM cells were co-cultured in 3D. Afterward, cell populations were separated by flow cytometry and analyzed by RNA sequencing. Correlating the secretome with transcriptome data indicated molecular processes such as cell adhesion and components of the ECM being enriched in most cell populations. Re-analyses of secretome data with regard to lysine- and proline-hydroxylated peptides revealed a gain in proteins, such as collagens and fibronectin. Cultivation of GCT cells on collagen I/IV- or fibronectin-coated plates significantly elevated adhesive and migratory capacity, while decreasing cisplatin sensitivity of GCT cells. Correspondingly, cisplatin sensitivity was significantly reduced in GCT cells under the influence of conditioned medium from fibroblasts and endothelial cells. This study sheds light on the cross talk between GCT cells and their circumjacent TM, which results in deposition of the ECM and eventually promotes a pro-tumorigenic environment through enhanced migratory and adhesive capacity, as well as decreased cisplatin sensitivity. Hence, our observations indicate that targeting the ECM and its cellular components might be a novel therapeutic option in combination with cisplatin-based chemotherapy for GCT patients.
PXD033562	35811686	Proteomics Analysis Reveals the Molecular Mechanism of MoPer1 Regulating the Development and Pathogenicity of Magnaporthe oryzae. 	proteome of the âˆ†Moper1 mutant	Magnaporthe oryzae, the âˆ†Moper1 mutant	Glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchoring the protein GPI modification post-transcriptionally is commonly seen. In our previous study, MoPer1, a GPI anchoring essential factor, has a critical effect on Magnaporthe oryzae growth, pathogenicity, and conidiogenesis, but its molecular mechanism is not clear. Here, we extracted the glycoproteins from the DeltaMoper1 mutant and wild-type Guy11 to analyze their differential levels by quantitative proteomic analysis of TMT markers. After background subtraction, a total of 431 proteins, with significant changes in expression, were successfully identified, and these differential proteins were involved in biological regulation, as well as cellular process and metabolic process, binding, catalytic activity, and other aspects. Moreover, we found that MoPer1 regulates the expression of 14 proteins involved in growth, development, and pathogenicity of M. oryzae. The above findings shed light on MoPer1's underlying mechanism in regulating growth, development, and pathogenicity of M. oryzae.
PXD024068	35812440	Proteomic Signatures of Monocytes in Hereditary Recurrent Fevers. 	PROTEOMIC SIGNATURES OF MONOCYTES IN HEREDITARY RECURRENT FEVERS	FMF, MKD, TRAPS	Hereditary periodic recurrent fevers (HRF) are monogenic autoinflammatory associated to mutations of some genes, such as diseases caused by mutations of including MEFV, TNFRSF1A and MVK genes. Despite the identification of the causative genes, the intracellular implications related to each gene variant are still largely unknown. A large -scale proteomic analysis on monocytes of these patients is aimed to identify with an unbiased approach the mean proteins and molecular interaction networks involved in the pathogenesis of these conditions. Monocytes from HRF 15 patients (5 with MFV, 5 TNFRSF1A and 5with MVK gene mutation) and 15 healthy donors (HDs) were analyzed by liquid chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry before and after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. Significant proteins were analyzed through a Cytoscape analysis using the ClueGo app to identify molecular interaction networks. Protein networks for each HRF were performed through a STRING database analysis integrated with a DISEAE database query. About 5000 proteins for each HRF were identified. LPS treatment maximizes differences between up-regulated proteins in monocytes of HRF patients and HDs, independently from the disease's activity and ongoing treatments. Proteins significantly modulated in monocytes of the different HRF allowed creating a disease-specific proteomic signatures and interactive protein network. Proteomic analysis is able to dissect the different intracellular pathways involved in the inflammatory response of circulating monocytes in HRF patients. The present data may help to identify a "monocyte proteomic signature" for each condition and unravel new possible unexplored intracellular pathways possibly involved in their pathogenesis. These data will be also useful to identify possible differences and similarities between the different HRFs and some multifactorial recurrent fevers.
PXD033147	35813949	The Periodontal Pathogen Fusobacterium nucleatum Exacerbates Alzheimer's Pathogenesis via Specific Pathways. 	The Periodontal Pathogen Fusobacterium nucleatum Exacerbates Alzheimer's Pathogenesis via Specific Pathways	Alzheimer's Disease, F. nucleatum, Inflammation, Mouse model, Periodontitis	Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia in older adults and has a devastating impact on the patient's quality of life, which creates a significant socio-economic burden for the affected individuals and their families. In recent years, studies have identified a relationship between periodontitis and AD. Periodontitis is an infectious/inflammatory disease that destroys the supporting periodontal structure leading to tooth loss. Dysbiosis of the oral microbiome plays a significant role in the onset and development of periodontitis exhibiting a shift to overgrowth of pathobionts in the normal microflora with increasing local inflammation. Fusobacterium nucleatum is a common pathogen that significantly overgrows in periodontitis and has also been linked to various systemic diseases. Earlier studies have reported that antibodies to F. nucleatum can be detected in the serum of patients with AD or cognitive impairment, but a causal relationship and a plausible mechanism linking the two diseases have not been identified. In this study, we conducted both in vivo and in vitro experiments and found that F. nucleatum activates microglial cells causing morphological changes, accelerated proliferation and enhanced expression of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in microglial cells. In our in vivo experiments, we found that F. nucleatum-induced periodontitis resulted in the exacerbation of Alzheimer's symptoms in 5XFAD mice including increased cognitive impairment, beta-amyloid accumulation and Tau protein phosphorylation in the mouse cerebrum. This study may suggest a possible link between a periodontal pathogen and AD and F. nucleatum could be a risk factor in the pathogenesis of AD. We are currently further identifying the pathways through which F. nucleatum modulates molecular elements in enhancing AD symptoms and signs. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD033147.
PXD032814	35814216	Notoginsenoside R1 Regulates Ischemic Myocardial Lipid Metabolism by Activating the AKT/mTOR Signaling Pathway. 	Notoginsenoside R1 regulates ischemic myocardial lipid metabolism through activating AKT/mTOR signaling pathway	AKT/mTOR pathway, Notoginsenoside R1, cardioprotection, ischemic heart disease, lipid metabolism	Ischemic heart diseases are responsible for more than one-third of all deaths worldwide. Radix notoginseng is widely used to treat ischemic heart disease in China and other Asian countries, and notoginsenoside R1 (NGR1) is its characteristic and large-amount ingredient. However, the potential molecular mechanisms of NGR1 in improving ischemic heart diseases are unclear. In this study, we combined pharmacological evaluation with network pharmacology, myocardial proteomics, and conventional molecular dynamics (MD) simulation to explore the cardio-protection mechanisms of NGR1. Our results revealed that NGR1 improved the echocardiographic, tissue pathological, and serum biochemical perturbations in myocardial ischemic rats. The network pharmacology studies indicated that NGR1 mainly regulated smooth muscle cell proliferation, vasculature development, and lipid metabolism signaling, especially in the PI3K/AKT pathway. Myocardial proteomics revealed that the function of NGR1 was focused on regulating metabolic and energy supply processes. The research combined reverse-docked targets with differential proteins and demonstrated that NGR1 modulated lipid metabolism in ischemic myocardia by interacting with mTOR and AKT. Conventional MD simulation was applied to investigate the influence of NGR1 on the structural stabilization of the mTOR and AKT complex. The results suggested that NGR1 can strengthen the affinity stabilization of mTOR and AKT. Our study first revealed that NGR1 enhanced the affinity stabilization of mTOR and AKT, thus promoting the activation of the AKT/mTOR pathway and improving lipid metabolic abnormity in myocardial ischemic rats.
PXD032737	35814249	Yu-Ping-Feng Formula Ameliorates Alveolar-Capillary Barrier Injury Induced by Exhausted-Exercise via Regulation of Cytoskeleton. 	Rattus norvegicus lung LC-MS/MS	Rattus norvegicus, lung tissue	Background: Yu-ping-feng powder (YPF) is a compound traditional Chinese medicine extensively used in China for respiratory diseases. However, the role of YPF in alveolar-capillary barrier dysfunction remains unknown. This study aimed to explore the effect and potential mechanism of YPF on alveolar-capillary barrier injury induced by exhausted exercise. Methods: Male Sprague-Dawley rats were used to establish an exhausted-exercise model by using a motorized rodent treadmill. YPF at doses of 2.18 g/kg was administrated by gavage before exercise training for 10 consecutive days. Food intake-weight/body weight, blood gas analysis, lung water percent content, BALF protein concentration, morphological observation, quantitative proteomics, real-time PCR, and Western blot were performed. A rat pulmonary microvascular endothelial cell line (PMVEC) subjected to hypoxia was applied for assessing the related mechanism. Results: YPF attenuated the decrease of food intake weight/body weight, improved lung swelling and hemorrhage, alleviated the increase of lung water percent content and BALF protein concentration, and inhibited the impairment of lung morphology. In addition, YPF increased the expression of claudin 3, claudin 18, occludin, VE-cadherin, and beta-catenin, attenuated the epithelial and endothelial hyperpermeability in vivo and/or in vitro, and the stress fiber formation in PMVECs after hypoxia. Quantitative proteomics discovered that the effect of YPF implicated the Siah2-ubiquitin-proteasomal pathway, Gng12-PAK1-MLCK, and RhoA/ROCK, which was further confirmed by Western blot. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD032737. Conclusion: YPF ameliorated alveolar-capillary barrier injury induced by exhausted exercise, which is accounted for at least partly by the regulation of cytoskeleton.
PXD027832	35814253	Shuangxinfang Prevents S100A9-Induced Macrophage/Microglial Inflammation to Improve Cardiac Function and Depression-Like Behavior in Rats After Acute Myocardial Infarction. 	Shuangxinfang in Rats with Depression-behavior post Acute Myocardial Infarction from Proteomics	Shuangxinfang, acute myocardial infarction, depressive disorder	Background: Depression is a common complication of cardiovascular disease, which deteriorates cardiac function. Shuangxinfang (psycho-cardiology formula, PCF) was reported to alleviate myocardial ischemia injury and improve depression-like behavior. Interestingly, our previous proteomics study predicted that the protein S100A9 appeared as an important target, and macrophage/microglial inflammation might be involved in the process of PCF improving depression induced by acute myocardial infarction (AMI). This study aims to validate the proteomics results. Methods: AMI rat models were established in vivo, followed by the administration of PCF or ABR-215757 (also named paquinimod, inhibiting S100A9 binding to TLR4) for 5 days. Forced swimming test (FST) and open field test (OFT) were applied to record depression-like behavior, and echocardiography was employed to evaluate cardiac function. Morphological changes of cardiomyocytes were assessed by HE staining and TUNEL staining on day 7 after cardiac surgery, as well as Masson trichrome staining on day 21. Hippocampal neurogenesis was determined by Nissl staining, while 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), tryptophan/kynurenine ratio, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the hippocampus were analyzed as biochemical indicators of depression. We employed RT-qPCR, western blotting, and immunofluorescence to detect the expression of pathway-related genes and proteins. Myocardial and hippocampal expression of inflammatory factors were performed by ELISA. The activation of macrophage and microglia was assessed via immunoreaction using CD68 and Iba1, respectively. For in vitro confirmation, BV2 cells were primed with recombinant protein S100A9 and then treated with PCF serum or ferulic acid to determine alterations in microglial inflammation. Results: Rats in the AMI group showed heart function deterioration and depression-like behavior. Coronary ligation not only brought about myocardial inflammation, cell apoptosis, and fibrosis but also reduced the neurogenesis, elevated the tryptophan/kynurenine ratio, and decreased the content of 5-HT. PCF could ameliorate the pathological and phenotypic changes in the heart and brain and inhibit the expression of the S100A9 protein, the activation of the microglial cell, and the secretion of IL-1beta and TNF-alpha raised by AMI. ABR-215757 showed therapeutic effect and molecular biological mechanisms similar to PCF. Treatment with PCF serum or ferulic acid in vitro was proved to efficiently block the hyperactivation of BV2 cells and increment of cytokine contents induced by recombinant protein S100A9. Conclusion: We identify S100A9 as a novel and potent regulator of inflammation in both the heart and brain. Macrophage/microglia inflammation mediated by S100A9 is considered a pivotal pathogenic in depression after AMI and a major pathway for the treatment of PCF, suggesting that PCF is a promising therapeutic candidate for psycho-cardiology disease.
PXD032380	35816513	A protein-protein interaction map reveals that the Coxiella burnetii effector CirB inhibits host proteasome activity. 	AP-MS Raw data of C. burnetii-host PPIs	AP-MS, C. burnetii, PPIs	Coxiella burnetii is the etiological agent of the zoonotic disease Q fever, which is featured by its ability to replicate in acid vacuoles resembling the lysosomal network. One key virulence determinant of C. burnetii is the Dot/Icm system that transfers more than 150 effector proteins into host cells. These effectors function to construct the lysosome-like compartment permissive for bacterial replication, but the functions of most of these effectors remain elusive. In this study, we used an affinity tag purification mass spectrometry (AP-MS) approach to generate a C. burnetii-human protein-protein interaction (PPI) map involving 53 C. burnetii effectors and 3480 host proteins. This PPI map revealed that the C. burnetii effector CBU0425 (designated CirB) interacts with most subunits of the 20S core proteasome. We found that ectopically expressed CirB inhibits hydrolytic activity of the proteasome. In addition, overexpression of CirB in C. burnetii caused dramatic inhibition of proteasome activity in host cells, while knocking down CirB expression alleviated such inhibitory effects. Moreover, we showed that a region of CirB that spans residues 91-120 binds to the proteasome subunit PSMB5 (beta 5). Finally, PSMB5 knockdown promotes C. burnetii virulence, highlighting the importance of proteasome activity modulation during the course of C. burnetii infection.
PXD034873	35817801	Translational fidelity and growth of Arabidopsis require stress-sensitive diphthamide biosynthesis. 	Characterization of the diphthamide modification of eEF2 in Arabidopsis thaliana	Diphthamide   TRANSLATION ELONGATION FACTOR 2 (eEF2)   Arabidopsis thaliana  Growth   Development	Diphthamide, a post-translationally modified histidine residue of eukaryotic TRANSLATION ELONGATION FACTOR2 (eEF2), is the human host cell-sensitizing target of diphtheria toxin. Diphthamide biosynthesis depends on the 4Fe-4S-cluster protein Dph1 catalyzing the first committed step, as well as Dph2 to Dph7, in yeast and mammals. Here we show that diphthamide modification of eEF2 is conserved in Arabidopsis thaliana and requires AtDPH1. Ribosomal -1 frameshifting-error rates are increased in Arabidopsis dph1 mutants, similar to yeast and mice. Compared to the wild type, shorter roots and smaller rosettes of dph1 mutants result from fewer formed cells. TARGET OF RAPAMYCIN (TOR) kinase activity is attenuated, and autophagy is activated, in dph1 mutants. Under abiotic stress diphthamide-unmodified eEF2 accumulates in wild-type seedlings, most strongly upon heavy metal excess, which is conserved in human cells. In summary, our results suggest that diphthamide contributes to the functionality of the translational machinery monitored by plants to regulate growth.
PXD032165	35819192	NURF301 contributes to gypsy chromatin insulator-mediated nuclear organization. 	NURF301 contributes to gypsy chromatin insulator-mediated nuclear organization	NURF301, drosophila, gypsy insulator, mass spec	Chromatin insulators are DNA-protein complexes that can prevent the spread of repressive chromatin and block communication between enhancers and promoters to regulate gene expression. In Drosophila, the gypsy chromatin insulator complex consists of three core proteins: CP190, Su(Hw), and Mod(mdg4)67.2. These factors concentrate at nuclear foci termed insulator bodies, and changes in insulator body localization have been observed in mutants defective for insulator function. Here, we identified NURF301/E(bx), a nucleosome remodeling factor, as a novel regulator of gypsy insulator body localization through a high-throughput RNAi imaging screen. NURF301 promotes gypsy-dependent insulator barrier activity and physically interacts with gypsy insulator proteins. Using ChIP-seq, we found that NURF301 co-localizes with insulator proteins genome-wide, and NURF301 promotes chromatin association of Su(Hw) and CP190 at gypsy insulator binding sites. These effects correlate with NURF301-dependent nucleosome repositioning. At the same time, CP190 and Su(Hw) both facilitate recruitment of NURF301 to chromatin. Finally, Oligopaint FISH combined with immunofluorescence revealed that NURF301 promotes 3D contact between insulator bodies and gypsy insulator DNA binding sites, and NURF301 is required for proper nuclear positioning of gypsy binding sites. Our data provide new insights into how a nucleosome remodeling factor and insulator proteins cooperatively contribute to nuclear organization.
PXD029515	35819316	Degradation of ribosomal and chaperone proteins is attenuated during the differentiation of replicatively aged C2C12 myoblasts. 	Differentiation of young and replicatively aged mouse C2C12 muscle cells	C2C12, Deuterium Oxide, Replicative ageing	BACKGROUND: Cell assays are important for investigating the mechanisms of ageing, including losses in protein homeostasis and 'proteostasis collapse'. We used novel isotopic labelling and proteomic methods to investigate protein turnover in replicatively aged (>140 population doublings) murine C2C12 myoblasts that exhibit impaired differentiation and serve as a model for age-related declines in muscle homeostasis. METHODS: The Absolute Dynamic Profiling Technique for Proteomics (Proteo-ADPT) was used to investigate proteostasis in young (passage 6-10) and replicatively aged (passage 48-50) C2C12 myoblast cultures supplemented with deuterium oxide (D2 O) during early (0-24 h) or late (72-96 h) periods of differentiation. Peptide mass spectrometry was used to quantify the absolute rates of abundance change, synthesis and degradation of individual proteins. RESULTS: Young cells exhibited a consistent ~25% rise in protein accretion over the 96-h experimental period. In aged cells, protein accretion increased by 32% (P < 0.05) during early differentiation, but then fell back to baseline levels by 96-h. Proteo-ADPT encompassed 116 proteins and 74 proteins exhibited significantly (P < 0.05, FDR < 5% interaction between age x differentiation stage) different changes in abundance between young and aged cells at early and later periods of differentiation, including proteins associated with translation, glycolysis, cell-cell adhesion, ribosomal biogenesis, and the regulation of cell shape. During early differentiation, heat shock and ribosomal protein abundances increased in aged cells due to suppressed degradation rather than heightened synthesis. For instance, HS90A increased at a rate of 10.62 +/- 1.60 ng/well/h in aged which was significantly greater than the rate of accretion (1.86 +/- 0.49 ng/well/h) in young cells. HS90A synthesis was similar in young (21.23 +/- 3.40 ng/well/h) and aged (23.69 +/- 1.13 ng/well/h), but HS90A degradation was significantly (P = 0.05) greater in young (19.37 +/- 2.93 ng/well/h) versus aged (13.06 +/- 0.76 ng/well/h) cells. During later differentiation the HS90A degradation (8.94 +/- 0.38 ng/well/h) and synthesis (7.89 +/- 1.28 ng/well/h) declined and were significantly less than the positive net balance between synthesis and degradation (synthesis = 28.14 +/- 3.70 ng/well/h vs. degradation = 21.49 +/- 3.13 ng/well/h) in young cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest a loss of proteome quality as a precursor to the lack of fusion of aged myoblasts. The quality of key chaperone proteins, including HS90A, HS90B and HSP7C was reduced in aged cells and may account for the disruption to cell signalling required for the later stages of differentiation and fusion.
PXD033026	35819414	Spatiotemporal Proximity Labeling Tools to Track GlcNAc Sugar-Modified Functional Protein Hubs during Cellular Signaling. 	Spatiotemporal proximity labeling tools to track GlcNAc-modified functional protein hubs during cellular signaling	O-GlcNAc, glycosylation, insulin signaling, nucleocytoplasmic, proximity labeling	A fundamental mechanism that all eukaryotic cells use to adapt to their environment is dynamic protein modification with monosaccharide sugars. In humans, O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) is rapidly added to and removed from diverse protein sites as a response to fluctuating nutrient levels, stressors, and signaling cues. Two aspects remain challenging for tracking functional O-GlcNAc events with chemical strategies: spatial control over subcellular locations and time control during labeling. The objective of this study was to create intracellular proximity labeling tools to identify functional changes in O-GlcNAc patterns with spatiotemporal control. We developed a labeling strategy based on the TurboID proximity labeling system for rapid protein biotin conjugation directed to O-GlcNAc protein modifications inside cells, a set of tools called "GlycoID." Localized variants to the nucleus and cytosol, nuc-GlycoID and cyt-GlycoID, labeled O-GlcNAc proteins and their interactomes in subcellular space. Labeling during insulin and serum stimulation revealed functional changes in O-GlcNAc proteins as soon as 30 min following signal initiation. We demonstrated using proteomic analysis that the GlycoID strategy captured O-GlcNAcylated "activity hubs" consisting of O-GlcNAc proteins and their associated protein-protein interactions. The ability to follow changes in O-GlcNAc hubs during physiological events such as insulin signaling allows these tools to determine the mechanisms of glycobiological cell regulation. Our functional O-GlcNAc data sets in human cells will be a valuable resource for O-GlcNAc-driven mechanisms.
PXD032402	35819518	Cryo-EM structures of prion protein filaments from Gerstmann-Straeussler-Scheinker disease. 	Cryo-EM Structures of Prion protein filaments from Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker disease	Cryo-EM Structures of Prion protein filaments from Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker disease	Prion protein (PrP) aggregation and formation of PrP amyloid (APrP) are central events in the pathogenesis of prion diseases. In the dominantly inherited prion protein amyloidosis known as Gerstmann-Straeussler-Scheinker (GSS) disease, plaques made of PrP amyloid are present throughout the brain. The c.593t > c mutation in the prion protein gene (PRNP) results in a phenylalanine to serine amino acid substitution at PrP residue 198 (F198S) and causes the most severe amyloidosis among GSS variants. It has been shown that neurodegeneration in this disease is associated with the presence of extracellular APrP plaques and neuronal intracytoplasmic Tau inclusions, that have been shown to contain paired helical filaments identical to those found in Alzheimer disease. Using cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM), we determined for the first time the structures of filaments of human APrP, isolated post-mortem from the brain of two symptomatic PRNP F198S mutation carriers. We report that in GSS (F198S) APrP filaments are composed of dimeric, trimeric and tetrameric left-handed protofilaments with their protomers sharing a common protein fold. The protomers in the cross-beta spines consist of 62 amino acids and span from glycine 80 to phenylalanine 141, adopting a previously unseen spiral fold with a thicker outer layer and a thinner inner layer. Each protomer comprises nine short beta-strands, with the beta1 and beta8 strands, as well as the beta4 and beta9 strands, forming a steric zipper. The data obtained by cryo-EM provide insights into the structural complexity of the PrP filament in a dominantly inherited human PrP amyloidosis. The novel findings highlight the urgency of extending our knowledge of the filaments' structures that may underlie distinct clinical and pathologic phenotypes of human neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD019543	35820417	Cell-free production of personalized therapeutic phages targeting multidrug-resistant bacteria. 	A cell-free platform for characterizing and producing therapeutic bacteriophages against biohazardous and antibiotic-resistant bacteria	E. coli, bacteriophage	Bacteriophages are potent therapeutics against biohazardous bacteria, which rapidly develop multidrug resistance. However, routine administration of phage therapy is hampered by a lack of rapid production, safe bioengineering, and detailed characterization of phages. Thus, we demonstrate a comprehensive cell-free platform for personalized production, transient engineering, and proteomic characterization of a broad spectrum of phages. Using mass spectrometry, we validated hypothetical and non-structural proteins and could also monitor the protein expression during phage assembly. Notably, a few microliters of a one-pot reaction produced effective doses of phages against enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC), Yersinia pestis, and Klebsiella pneumoniae. By co-expressing suitable host factors, we could extend the range of cell-free production to phages targeting gram-positive bacteria. We further introduce a non-genomic phage engineering method, which adds functionalities for only one replication cycle. In summary, we expect this cell-free methodology to foster reverse and forward phage engineering and customized production of clinical-grade bacteriophages.
PXD042164	35821431	Engineering of succinyl-CoA metabolism in view of succinylation regulation to improve the erythromycin production. 	Lysine succinylation in Saccharopolyspora erythraea	Saccharopolyspora erythraea, Succinylation	As a novel protein post-translational modification (PTM), lysine succinylation is widely involved in metabolism regulation by altering the activity of catalytic enzymes. Inactivating succinyl-CoA synthetase in Saccharopolyspora erythraea HL3168 E3 was proved significantly inducing the global protein hypersuccinylation. To investigate the effects, succinylome of the mutant strain E3DeltasucC was identified by using a high-resolution mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach. PTMomics analyses suggested the important roles of succinylation on protein biosynthesis, carbon metabolism, and antibiotics biosynthesis in S. erythraea. Enzymatic experiments in vivo and in vitro were further conducted to determine the succinylation regulation in the TCA cycle. We found out that the activity of aconitase (SACE_3811) was significantly inhibited by succinylation in E3DeltasucC, which probably led to the extracellular accumulation of pyruvate and citrate during the fermentation. Enzyme structural analyses indicated that the succinylation of K278 and K373, conservative lysine residues locating around the protein binding pocket, possibly affects the activity of aconitase. To alleviate the metabolism changes caused by succinyl-CoA synthetase inactivation and protein hypersuccinylation, CRISPR interference (CRISPRi) was applied to mildly downregulate the transcription level of gene sucC in E3. The erythromycin titer of the CRISPRi mutant E3-sucC-sg1 was increased by 54.7% compared with E3, which was 1200.5 mg/L. Taken together, this work not only expands our knowledge of succinylation regulation in the TCA cycle, but also validates that CRISPRi is an efficient strategy on the metabolic engineering of S. erythraea. KEY POINTS: * We reported the first systematic profiling of the S. erythraea succinylome. * We found that the succinylation regulation on the activity of aconitase. * We enhanced the production of erythromycin by using CRISPRi to regulate the transcription of gene sucC.
PXD030890	35829791	Terpolymeric platform with enhanced hydrophilicity via cysteic acid for serum intact glycopeptide analysis. 	Designing workflows for large-scale Omic Based biomarker identification for hepatocellular carcinoma	Cysteic acid, Enrichment, HILIC, ter-Polymer	A new polymeric (methyl methacrylate/ethylene glycol dimethacrylate/1,2-epoxy-5-hexene) base/matrix has been fabricated and decorated with zwitterionic hydrophilic cysteic acid (Cya) for the enrichment of intact N-glycopeptides from standards and biological samples. Terpolymer-Cya provides good enrichment efficiency, improved hydrophilicity, and selectivity by virtue of better surface area (2.09 x 10(2) m(2)/g) provided by terpolymer and the zwitterionic property offered by cysteic acid. Cysteic acid-functionalized polymeric hydrophilic interaction liquid chromatography (HILIC) sorbent enriches 35 and 24 N-linked glycopeptides via SPE (solid phase extraction) mode from tryptic digests of model glycoproteins, i.e., immunoglobulin G (IgG) and horseradish peroxidase (HRP), respectively. Zwitterionic chemistry of cysteine helps in achieving higher selectivity with BSA digest (1:200), and lower detection limit down to 100 attomoles with a complete glycosylation profile of each standard digest. The recovery of 81% and good reproducibility define the application of terpolymer-Cya for complex samples like a serum. Analysis of human serum provides a profile of 807 intact N-linked glycopeptides via nano-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (nLC-MS/MS). To the best of our knowledge, this is the highest number of glycopeptides enriched by any HILIC sorbent. Selected glycoproteins are evaluated in link to various cancers including the breast, lung, uterine, and melanoma using single-nucleotide variances (BioMuta). This study represents the complete idea of using an in-house developed strategy as a successful tool to help analyze, relate, and answer glycoprotein-based clinical issues regarding cancers.
PXD021529	35830798	RPA1 controls chromatin architecture and maintains lipid metabolic homeostasis. 	Identification of RPA1 interactome in mouse liver tissue	Interactome, Mouse liver, RPA1	Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is the most common liver disease, with a prevalence of 25% worldwide. However, the underlying molecular mechanism involved in the development and progression of the NAFLD spectrum remains unclear. Single-stranded DNA-binding protein replication protein A1 (RPA1) participates in DNA replication, recombination, and damage repair. Here, we show that Rpa1(+/-) mice develop fatty liver disease during aging and in response to a high-fat diet. Liver-specific deletion of Rpa1 results in downregulation of genes related to fatty acid oxidation and impaired fatty acid oxidation, which leads to hepatic steatosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Mechanistically, RPA1 binds gene regulatory regions, chromatin-remodeling factors, and HNF4A and remodels chromatin architecture, through which RPA1 promotes HNF4A transcriptional activity and fatty acid beta oxidation. Collectively, our data demonstrate that RPA1 is an important regulator of NAFLD through controlling chromatin accessibility.
PXD027704	35831314	Scalable multiplex co-fractionation/mass spectrometry platform for accelerated protein interactome discovery. 	A scalable multiplexed platform to accelerate protein interactome discovery	Breast Cancer, Co-Fractionation Mass Spectrometry, Interactome, Multiplex, Network Biology, Protein Complex, Protein-Protein Interaction, Quantitative Proteomics, Systems Biology, ion-exchange chromatography	Co-fractionation/mass spectrometry (CF/MS) enables the mapping of endogenous macromolecular networks on a proteome scale, but current methods are experimentally laborious, resource intensive and afford lesser quantitative accuracy. Here, we present a technically efficient, cost-effective and reproducible multiplex CF/MS (mCF/MS) platform for measuring and comparing, simultaneously, multi-protein assemblies across different experimental samples at a rate that is up to an order of magnitude faster than previous approaches. We apply mCF/MS to map the protein interaction landscape of non-transformed mammary epithelia versus breast cancer cells in parallel, revealing large-scale differences in protein-protein interactions and the relative abundance of associated macromolecules connected with cancer-related pathways and altered cellular processes. The integration of multiplexing capability within an optimized workflow renders mCF/MS as a powerful tool for systematically exploring physical interaction networks in a comparative manner.
PXD032665	35831802	Quantitative proteomics analysis to assess protein expression levels in the ovaries of pubescent goats. 	Quantitative Proteomics Analysis to Assess Protein Expression Levels in the Ovaries of Pubescent Goats	Anhui white goats, LC-MS/MS, PPI network, differentially abundant proteins, iTRAQ, pubertal onset	BACKGROUND: Changes in the abundance of ovarian proteins play a key role in the regulation of reproduction. However, to date, no studies have investigated such changes in pubescent goats. Herein we applied isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to analyze the expression levels of ovarian proteins in pre-pubertal (n = 3) and pubertal (n = 3) goats. RESULTS: Overall, 7,550 proteins were recognized; 301 (176 up- and 125 downregulated) were identified as differentially abundant proteins (DAPs). Five DAPs were randomly selected for expression level validation by Western blotting; the results of Western blotting and iTRAQ analysis were consistent. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis indicated that DAPs were enriched in olfactory transduction, glutathione metabolism, and calcium signaling pathways. Besides, gene ontology functional enrichment analysis revealed that several DAPs enriched in biological processes were associated with cellular process, biological regulation, metabolic process, and response to stimulus. Protein-protein interaction network showed that proteins interacting with CDK1, HSPA1A, and UCK2 were the most abundant. CONCLUSIONS: We identified 301 DAPs, which were enriched in olfactory transduction, glutathione metabolism, and calcium signaling pathways, suggesting the involvement of these processes in the onset of puberty. Further studies are warranted to more comprehensively explore the function of the identified DAPs and aforementioned signaling pathways to gain novel, deeper insights into the mechanisms underlying the onset of puberty.
PXD032845	35832232	Identification of Proteases and Protease Inhibitors in Seeds of the Recalcitrant Forest Tree Species Quercus ilex. 	Proteases in Quercus ilex seeds	Protease, Quercus ilex, germination, non-orthodox seed, protease activity, protease inhibitors	Proteases and protease inhibitors have been identified in the recalcitrant species Quercus ilex using in silico and wet methods, with focus on those present in seeds during germination. In silico analyses showed that the Q. ilex transcriptome database contained 2,240 and 97 transcripts annotated as proteases and protease inhibitors, respectively. They belonged to the different families according to MEROPS, being the serine and metallo ones the most represented. The data were compared with those previously reported for other Quercus species, including Q. suber, Q. lobata, and Q. robur. Changes in proteases and protease inhibitors alongside seed germination in cotyledon and embryo axis tissues were assessed using proteomics and in vitro and in gel activity assays. Shotgun (LC-MSMS) analysis of embryo axes and cotyledons in nonviable (NV), mature (T1) and germinated (T3) seeds allowed the identification of 177 proteases and 12 protease inhibitors, mostly represented by serine and metallo types. Total protease activity, as determined by in vitro assays using azocasein as substrate, was higher in cotyledons than in embryo axes. There were not differences in activity among cotyledon samples, while embryo axis peaked at germinated T4 stage. Gel assays revealed the presence of protease activities in at least 10 resolved bands, in the Mr range of 60-260 kDa, being some of them common to cotyledons and embryo axes in either nonviable, mature, and germinated seeds. Bands showing quantitative or qualitative changes upon germination were observed in embryo axes but not in cotyledons at Mr values of 60-140 kDa. Proteomics shotgun analysis of the 10 bands with protease activity supported the results obtained in the overall proteome analysis, with 227 proteases and 3 protease inhibitors identified mostly represented by the serine, cysteine, and metallo families. The combined use of shotgun proteomics and protease activity measurements allowed the identification of tissue-specific (e.g., cysteine protease inhibitors in embryo axes of mature acorns) and stage-specific proteins (e.g., those associated with mobilization of storage proteins accumulated in T3 stage). Those proteins showing differences between nonviable and viable seeds could be related to viability, and those variables between mature and germinated could be associated with the germination process. These differences are observed mostly in embryo axes but not in cotyledons. Among them, those implicated in mobilization of reserve proteins, such as the cathepsin H cysteine protease and Clp proteases, and also the large number of subunits of the CNS and 26S proteasome complex differentially identified in embryos of the several stages suggests that protein degradation via CNS/26S plays a major role early in germination. Conversely, aspartic proteases such as nepenthesins were exclusively identified in NV seeds, so their presence could be used as indicator of nonviability.
PXD032910	35832808	Antioxidant Mechanism of Lactiplantibacillus plantarum KM1 Under H2O2 Stress by Proteomics Analysis. 	Lactiplantibacillus plantarum, LC-MSMS	Lactiplantibacillus plantarum, ProteomeXchange project tag: Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP)	Lactiplantibacillus plantarum KM1 was screened from natural fermented products, which had probiotic properties and antioxidant function. The survival rate of L. plantarum KM1 was 78.26% at 5 mM H2O2. In this study, the antioxidant mechanism of L. plantarum KM1 was deeply analyzed by using the proteomics method. The results demonstrated that a total of 112 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were screened, of which, 31 DEPs were upregulated and 81 were downregulated. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis indicated that DEPs participated in various metabolic pathways such as pyruvate metabolism, carbon metabolism, trichloroacetic acid cycle, amino acid metabolism, and microbial metabolism in diverse environments. These metabolic pathways were related to oxidative stress caused by H2O2 in L. plantarum KM1. Therefore, the antioxidant mechanism of L. plantarum KM1 under H2O2 stress provided a theoretical basis for its use as a potential natural antioxidant.
PXD026563	35835037	Comparative Phosphoproteomic Profiling in the Prefrontal Cortex of Prenatally Stressed Male Offspring Rats. 	Comparative phosphoproteomic profiling in prefrontal cortex of prenatal stressed offspring rats	Depression, Phosphoproteomics, Prefrontal cortex, Prenatal stress	Many investigations have indicated that prenatal stress (PS) causes depressive-like disturbances in offspring rats. However, the underlying pathogenic mechanisms have not yet been fully elucidated. The prefrontal cortex (PFC) has been shown to play a role in susceptibility to stress during fetal development; thus, we focused our attention on differential protein phosphorylation in this region of PS-S (susceptibility to PS) offspring rats. The sucrose preference test was used to screen for susceptibility to PS. The validity of the prenatally stressed model was verified by other common depression-like behaviors. We used MS-based TMT quantitative proteomics in combination with the phosphopeptide enrichment method to compare phosphoproteomic profiling in the PFC of PS-S and control male offspring rats. In total, 3,418 phosphoproteins, 8,404 phosphopeptides, and 12,175 phosphosites were identified in this analysis. According to the screening criteria, 902 phosphopeptides increased and 609 decreased in the PFC of the PS-S group compared to the control rats. Gene ontology enrichment analysis indicated that the main enriched terms in the cellular component category were "synapse part," "myelin sheath," "synapse," "neuron part," and "axon." The phosphoproteins enriched in the molecular function and biological process categories were mainly related to cytoskeleton- and projection morphogenesis-associated proteins. KEGG pathway enrichment analyses identified 30 significant KEGG pathways; the top five pathways included salivary secretion, endocrine and other factor-regulated calcium reabsorption, pancreatic secretion, and insulin secretion. Motifs such as ......_S_P...RR, ......S_PE......, ......_S_PV......, ......_S_P.H......, and ...S..._S_PT.... were the top five motifs enriched in phosphorylated sites. PS may induce depressive-like behaviors in male offspring rats by regulating the phosphorylation of proteins mainly related to synapses, myelin sheaths, neurons, and the cytoskeleton. The phosphorylation of related proteins may act as key pathogenic hits. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD026563.
PXD029376	35835712	Development of a multiomics model for identification of predictive biomarkers for COVID-19 severity: a retrospective cohort study. 	Large-scale multi-omics analysis identifies novel early markers of COVID-19 severity	COVID-19, Glycoproteomics, Multiplexed glycoprotoemics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Covid-19	BACKGROUND: COVID-19 is a multi-system disorder with high variability in clinical outcomes among patients who are admitted to hospital. Although some cytokines such as interleukin (IL)-6 are believed to be associated with severity, there are no early biomarkers that can reliably predict patients who are more likely to have adverse outcomes. Thus, it is crucial to discover predictive markers of serious complications. METHODS: In this retrospective cohort study, we analysed samples from 455 participants with COVID-19 who had had a positive SARS-CoV-2 RT-PCR result between April 14, 2020, and Dec 1, 2020 and who had visited one of three Mayo Clinic sites in the USA (Minnesota, Arizona, or Florida) in the same period. These participants were assigned to three subgroups depending on disease severity as defined by the WHO ordinal scale of clinical improvement (outpatient, severe, or critical). Our control cohort comprised of 182 anonymised age-matched and sex-matched plasma samples that were available from the Mayo Clinic Biorepository and banked before the COVID-19 pandemic. We did a deep profiling of circulatory cytokines and other proteins, lipids, and metabolites from both cohorts. Most patient samples were collected before, or around the time of, hospital admission, representing ideal samples for predictive biomarker discovery. We used proximity extension assays to quantify cytokines and circulatory proteins and tandem mass spectrometry to measure lipids and metabolites. Biomarker discovery was done by applying an AutoGluon-tabular classifier to a multiomics dataset, producing a stacked ensemble of cutting-edge machine learning algorithms. Global proteomics and glycoproteomics on a subset of patient samples with matched pre-COVID-19 plasma samples was also done. FINDINGS: We quantified 1463 cytokines and circulatory proteins, along with 902 lipids and 1018 metabolites. By developing a machine-learning-based prediction model, a set of 102 biomarkers, which predicted severe and clinical COVID-19 outcomes better than the traditional set of cytokines, were discovered. These predictive biomarkers included several novel cytokines and other proteins, lipids, and metabolites. For example, altered amounts of C-type lectin domain family 6 member A (CLEC6A), ether phosphatidylethanolamine (P-18:1/18:1), and 2-hydroxydecanoate, as reported here, have not previously been associated with severity in COVID-19. Patient samples with matched pre-COVID-19 plasma samples showed similar trends in muti-omics signatures along with differences in glycoproteomics profile. INTERPRETATION: A multiomic molecular signature in the plasma of patients with COVID-19 before being admitted to hospital can be exploited to predict a more severe course of disease. Machine learning approaches can be applied to highly complex and multidimensional profiling data to reveal novel signatures of clinical use. The absence of validation in an independent cohort remains a major limitation of the study. FUNDING: Eric and Wendy Schmidt.
PXD033964	35835738	Phagocytosis of Plasmodium falciparum ring-stage parasites predicts protection against malaria. 	Phagocytosis of Plasmodium falciparum ring-stage parasites predicts protection against malaria	Plasmodium, ring stage	Ring-infected erythrocytes are the predominant asexual stage in the peripheral circulation but are rarely investigated in the context of acquired immunity against Plasmodium falciparum malaria. Here we compare antibody-dependent phagocytosis of ring-infected parasite cultures in samples from a controlled human malaria infection (CHMI) study (NCT02739763). Protected volunteers did not develop clinical symptoms, maintained parasitaemia below a predefined threshold of 500 parasites/mul and were not treated until the end of the study. Antibody-dependent phagocytosis of both ring-infected and uninfected erythrocytes from parasite cultures was strongly correlated with protection. A surface proteomic analysis revealed the presence of merozoite proteins including erythrocyte binding antigen-175 and -140 on ring-infected and uninfected erythrocytes, providing an additional antibody-mediated protective mechanism for their activity beyond invasion-inhibition. Competition phagocytosis assays support the hypothesis that merozoite antigens are the key mediators of this functional activity. Targeting ring-stage parasites may contribute to the control of parasitaemia and prevention of clinical malaria.
PXD013643	35835939	Multi-omics study identifies novel signatures of DNA/RNA, amino acid, peptide, and lipid metabolism by simulated diabetes on coronary endothelial cells. 	Bovine Coronary Artery Endothelial Cells-SWATH Proteomics	BCAEC, SWATH-Proteomics, diabetes	Coronary artery endothelial cells (CAEC) exert an important role in the development of cardiovascular disease. Dysfunction of CAEC is associated with cardiovascular disease in subjects with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). However, comprehensive studies of the effects that a diabetic environment exerts on this cellular type are scarce. The present study characterized the molecular perturbations occurring on cultured bovine CAEC subjected to a prolonged diabetic environment (high glucose and high insulin). Changes at the metabolite and peptide level were assessed by Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS(2)) and chemoinformatics. The results were integrated with published LC-MS(2)-based quantitative proteomics on the same in vitro model. Our findings were consistent with reports on other endothelial cell types and identified novel signatures of DNA/RNA, amino acid, peptide, and lipid metabolism in cells under a diabetic environment. Manual data inspection revealed disturbances on tryptophan catabolism and biosynthesis of phenylalanine-based, glutathione-based, and proline-based peptide metabolites. Fluorescence microscopy detected an increase in binucleation in cells under treatment that also occurred when human CAEC were used. This multi-omics study identified particular molecular perturbations in an induced diabetic environment that could help unravel the mechanisms underlying the development of cardiovascular disease in subjects with T2DM.
PXD033831	35838324	Live-Cell Imaging of Sterculic Acid-a Naturally Occurring 1,2-Cyclopropene Fatty Acid-by Bioorthogonal Reaction with Turn-On Tetrazine-Fluorophore Conjugates. 	Employing Sterculic Acid-a naturally occurring 1, 2-cyclopropene fatty acid-for live-cell imaging of lipids by inverse electron-demand Diels-Alder reaction	Bioorthogonal, PTM, cyclopropene, lipidation, sterculic	In the field of lipid research, bioorthogonal chemistry has made the study of lipid uptake and processing in living systems possible, whilst minimising biological properties arising from detectable pendant groups. To allow the study of unsaturated free fatty acids in live cells, we here report the use of sterculic acid, a 1,2-cyclopropene-containing oleic acid analogue, as a bioorthogonal probe. We show that this lipid can be readily taken up by dendritic cells without toxic side effects, and that it can subsequently be visualised using an inverse electron-demand Diels-Alder reaction with quenched tetrazine-fluorophore conjugates. In addition, the lipid can be used to identify changes in protein oleoylation after immune cell activation. Finally, this reaction can be integrated into a multiplexed bioorthogonal reaction workflow by combining it with two sequential copper-catalysed Huisgen ligation reactions. This allows for the study of multiple biomolecules in the cell simultaneously by multimodal confocal imaging.
PXD029345	35838349	A non-transcriptional function of Yap regulates the DNA replication program in Xenopus laevis. 	Identification of Yap-interacting proteins in Xenopus egg extracts by co-immunoprecipitation coupled to LC/MS/MS	IP, Xenopus laevis	In multicellular eukaryotic organisms, the initiation of DNA replication occurs asynchronously throughout S-phase according to a regulated replication timing program. Here, using Xenopus egg extracts, we showed that Yap (Yes-associated protein 1), a downstream effector of the Hippo signalling pathway, is required for the control of DNA replication dynamics. We found that Yap is recruited to chromatin at the start of DNA replication and identified Rif1, a major regulator of the DNA replication timing program, as a novel Yap binding protein. Furthermore, we show that either Yap or Rif1 depletion accelerates DNA replication dynamics by increasing the number of activated replication origins. In Xenopus embryos, using a Trim-Away approach during cleavage stages devoid of transcription, we found that either Yap or Rif1 depletion triggers an acceleration of cell divisions, suggesting a shorter S-phase by alterations of the replication program. Finally, our data show that Rif1 knockdown leads to defects in the partitioning of early versus late replication foci in retinal stem cells, as we previously showed for Yap. Altogether, our findings unveil a non-transcriptional role for Yap in regulating replication dynamics. We propose that Yap and Rif1 function as brakes to control the DNA replication program in early embryos and post-embryonic stem cells.
PXD028623	35838590	Identification of Microproteins in Saccharomyces cerevisiae under Different Stress Conditions. 	Identification of small open reading frames-encoded peptides in Saccharomyces cerevisiae under different stress conditions	Heat shock, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Small open reading frames, UV, sORF-encoded peptides, starvation	Small open reading frame-encoded peptides (SEPs) are microproteins with a length of 100 amino acids or less, which may play a critical role in maintaining cell homeostasis under stress. Therefore, we used mass spectrometry-based proteomics to explore microproteins potentially involved in cellular stress responses in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A total of 225 microproteins with 1920 unique peptides were identified under six culture conditions: normal, oxidation, starvation, ultraviolet radiation, heat shock, and heat shock with starvation. Among these microproteins, we found 70 SEPs with 75 unique peptides. The annotated microproteins are involved in stress-related processes, such as cell redox reactions, cell wall modification, protein folding and degradation, and DNA damage repair. It suggests that SEPs may also play similar functions under stress conditions. For example, SEP IP_008057, translated from a short coding sequence of YJL159W, may play a role in heat shock. This study identified stress-responsive SEPs in S. cerevisiae and provided valuable information to determine the functions of these proteins, which enrich the genome and proteome of S. cerevisiae and show clues to improving the stress tolerance of S. cerevisiae.
PXD034333	35838755	Englerin A Rewires Phosphosignaling via Hsp27 Hyperphosphorylation to Induce Cytotoxicity in Renal Cancer Cells. 	Englerin A rewires phosphosignaling via HSP27 hyperphosphorylation to induce cytotoxicity in renal cancer cells	Englerin A, HSP27, anti-cancer drug, phosphoproteomics, renal cancer	Englerin A (EA) is a small-molecule natural product with selective cytotoxicity against renal cancer cells. EA has been shown to induce apoptosis and cell death through cell-cycle arrest and/or insulin signaling pathways. However, its biological mode of action or targets in renal cancer remains enigmatic. In this study, we employed advanced mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics approaches to identify EA's functional roles in renal cancer. We identified 10,940 phosphorylation sites, of which 706 sites exhibited EA-dependent phosphorylation changes. Integrated analysis of motifs and interaction networks suggested activation of stress-activated kinases including p38 upon EA treatment. Of note, a downstream target of p38, Hsp27, was found to be hyperphosphorylated on multiple sites upon EA treatment. Among these, a novel site Ser65 on Hsp27, which was further validated by targeted proteomics, was shown to be crucial for EA-induced cytotoxicity in renal cancer cells. Taken together, these data reveal the complex signaling cascade that is induced upon EA treatment and importantly provide insights into its effects on downstream molecular signaling.
PXD035389	35839302	Inhibition of mPGES-2 ameliorates NASH by activating NR1D1 via heme. 	proteomic analysis of mPGES-2 on NAFLD	NAFLD, liver tissue	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), a complex metabolic syndrome, has limited therapeutic options. Microsomal prostaglandin E synthase-2 (mPGES-2) was originally discovered as a prostaglandin E 2 (PGE 2 ) synthase; however, it does not produce PGE 2 in the liver. Moreover, the role of mPGES-2 in NAFLD remains undefined. Herein, we aimed to determine the function and mechanism of mPGES-2 in liver steatosis and steatohepatitis. APPROACH AND RESULTS: To evaluate the role of mPGES-2 in NAFLD, whole-body or hepatocyte-specific mPGES-2-deficient mice fed a high-fat or methionine-choline-deficient diet were used. Compared with control mice, mPGES-2-deficient mice showed reduced hepatic lipid accumulation, along with ameliorated liver injury, inflammation, and fibrosis. Furthermore, the protective effect of mPGES-2 deficiency against NAFLD was dependent on decreased cytochrome P450 4A14 and increased acyl-CoA thioesterase 4 levels regulated by the heme receptor nuclear receptor subfamily 1 group D member 1 (NR1D1), but not PGE 2 . Heme regulated the increased NR1D1 activity mediated by mPGES-2 deficiency. Further, we confirmed the protective role of the mPGES-2 inhibitor SZ0232 in NAFLD therapy. CONCLUSION: Our study indicates the pathogenic role of mPGES-2 and outlines the mechanism in mediating NAFLD, thereby highlighting the therapeutic potential of mPGES-2 inhibition in liver steatosis and steatohepatitis.
PXD030304	35839778	Pan-cancer proteomic map of 949 human cell lines. 	Pan-cancer proteomic map of 949 human cell lines (ProCan-DepMapSanger)	Cancer, DIA, SWATH, cell line	The proteome provides unique insights into disease biology beyond the genome and transcriptome. A lack of large proteomic datasets has restricted the identification of new cancer biomarkers. Here, proteomes of 949 cancer cell lines across 28 tissue types are analyzed by mass spectrometry. Deploying a workflow to quantify 8,498 proteins, these data capture evidence of cell-type and post-transcriptional modifications. Integrating multi-omics, drug response, and CRISPR-Cas9 gene essentiality screens with a deep learning-based pipeline reveals thousands of protein biomarkers of cancer vulnerabilities that are not significant at the transcript level. The power of the proteome to predict drug response is very similar to that of the transcriptome. Further, random downsampling to only 1,500 proteins has limited impact on predictive power, consistent with protein networks being highly connected and co-regulated. This pan-cancer proteomic map (ProCan-DepMapSanger) is a comprehensive resource available at https://cellmodelpassports.sanger.ac.uk.
PXD030307	35839780	Temporal resolution of gene derepression and proteome changes upon PROTAC-mediated degradation of BCL11A protein in erythroid cells. 	Temporal resolution of gene derepression and proteome changes upon PROTAC-mediated degradation of BCL11A protein in erythroid cells	BCL11A, PROTAC, data-independent acqusition, hemoglobinopathies	Reactivation of fetal hemoglobin expression by the downregulation of BCL11A is a promising treatment for beta-hemoglobinopathies. A detailed understanding of BCL11A-mediated repression of gamma-globin gene (HBG1/2) transcription is lacking, as studies to date used perturbations by shRNA or CRISPR-Cas9 gene editing. We leveraged the dTAG PROTAC degradation platform to acutely deplete BCL11A protein in erythroid cells and examined consequences by nascent transcriptomics, proteomics, chromatin accessibility, and histone profiling. Among 31 genes repressed by BCL11A, HBG1/2 and HBZ show the most abundant and progressive changes in transcription and chromatin accessibility upon BCL11A loss. Transcriptional changes at HBG1/2 were detected in <2 h. Robust HBG1/2 reactivation upon acute BCL11A depletion occurred without the loss of promoter 5-methylcytosine (5mC). Using targeted protein degradation, we establish a hierarchy of gene reactivation at BCL11A targets, in which nascent transcription is followed by increased chromatin accessibility, and both are uncoupled from promoter DNA methylation at the HBG1/2 loci.
PXD030973	35839853	Whole-cell FRET monitoring of transcription factor activities enables functional annotation of signal transduction systems in living bacteria. 	FRET monitoring of transcription factor activities in living bacteria	FRET, Fluorescent Unnatural amino acid, Genetic codon expansion, Promoter, Transcription factor	Bacteria adapt to their constantly changing environments largely by transcriptional regulation through the activities of various transcription factors (TFs). However, techniques that monitor TF-promoter interactions in situ in living bacteria are lacking. Herein, we developed a whole-cell TF-promoter binding assay based on the intermolecular FRET between an unnatural amino acid, l-(7-hydroxycoumarin-4-yl) ethylglycine, which labels TFs with bright fluorescence through genetic encoding (donor fluorophore) and the live cell nucleic acid stain SYTO 9 (acceptor fluorophore). We show that this new FRET pair monitors the intricate TF-promoter interactions elicited by various types of signal transduction systems, including one-component (CueR) and two-component systems (BasSR and PhoPQ), in bacteria with high specificity and sensitivity. We demonstrate that robust CouA incorporation and FRET occurrence is achieved in all these regulatory systems based on either the crystal structures of TFs or their simulated structures, if 3D structures of the TFs were unavailable. Furthermore, using CueR and PhoPQ systems as models, we demonstrate that the whole-cell FRET assay is applicable for the identification and validation of complex regulatory circuit and novel modulators of regulatory systems of interest. Finally, we show that the FRET system is applicable for single-cell analysis and monitoring TF activities in Escherichia coli colonizing a Caenorhabditis elegans host. In conclusion, we established a tractable and sensitive TF-promoter binding assay, which not only complements currently available approaches for DNA-protein interactions but also provides novel opportunities for functional annotation of bacterial signal transduction systems and studies of the bacteria-host interface.
PXD034847	35839996	A Proteomic Approach Identifies Isoform-Specific and Nucleotide-Dependent RAS Interactions. 	A comprehensive and quantitative interactome of RAS	Cell viability, Interactome, RAS, SILAC labeling, Sebescence	Active mutations in the RAS genes are found in ~30% of human cancers. Although thought to have overlapping functions, RAS isoforms show preferential activation in human tumors, which prompted us to employ a comparative and quantitative proteomics approach to generate isoform-specific and nucleotide-dependent interactomes of the four RAS isoforms, KRAS4A, KRAS4B, HRAS, and NRAS. Many isoform-specific interacting proteins were identified, including HRAS-specific CARM1 and CHK1 and KRAS-specific PIP4K2C and IPO7. Comparing the interactomes of WT and constitutively active G12D mutant of RAS isoforms, we identified several potential previously unknown effector proteins of RAS, one of which was recently reported while this article was in preparation, RADIL. These interacting proteins play important roles as knockdown or pharmacological inhibition leads to potent inhibition of cancer cells. The HRAS-specific interacting protein CARM1 plays a role in HRAS-induced senescence, with CARM1 knockdown or inhibition selectively increasing senescence in HRAS-transformed cells but not in KRAS4B-transformed cells. By revealing new isoform-specific and nucleotide-dependent RAS interactors, the study here provides insights to help understand the overlapping functions of the RAS isoforms.
PXD030228	35840340	Tandem mass tagging combined with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry technique to detect protein markers in gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma. 	TMT combined with LC-MS/MS technique to detect protein markers in gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma	Gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma, Precancerous lesions, TMT-LC-MS/MS	BACKGROUND: Gastroesophageal junction adenocarcinoma (GEJA) is a malignant tumor located at the junction of the esophagus and stomach, the incidence of which is increasing year by year, while screening for early biomarkers is limited. Tandem mass tagging (TMT) coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) has been used to screen for differential proteins in various cancers. METHODS: Differential proteins in GEJA and precancerous lesions were screened using TMT-LC/MS/MS, and then proteins that met expectations were selected for trend clustering analysis, combined with GO and KEGG analysis for functional annotation of differential proteins in GEJA. Then, parallel reaction monitoring and immunohistochemistry techniques were used to validate the accuracy of the proteomics data. RESULTS: Our group screened the differential proteins during GEJA progression using proteomics technology, analyzed the expression trends and functional regions involved in the differential proteins during carcinogenesis, and validated the accuracy of the experimental results. CONCLUSIONS: The screening of differential proteins in GEJA carcinogenesis based on TMT-LC/MS/MS technology provides detailed information for the elucidation of GEJA progression process, pathogenesis, early screening and screening of candidate markers.
PXD032071	35840976	Electronic cigarette liquids impair metabolic cooperation and alter proteomic profiles in V79 cells. 	Lung fibroblasts from chinese hamster cell line V79 and the effects of e-cigarettes liquids	V79, e-cigarettes liquid, lung fibroblast, metabolic cooperation, nicotine, posttranslational modifications	BACKGROUND: Although still considered a safer alternative to classical cigarettes, growing body of work points to harmful effects of electronic cigarettes (e-cigarettes) affecting a range of cellular processes. The biological effect of e-cigarettes needs to be investigated in more detail considering their widespread use. METHODS: In this study, we treated V79 lung fibroblasts with sub-cytotoxic concentration of e-cigarette liquids, with and without nicotine. Mutagenicity was evaluated by HPRT assay, genotoxicity by comet assay and the effect on cellular communication by metabolic cooperation assay. Additionally, comprehensive proteome analysis was performed via high resolution, parallel accumulation serial fragmentation-PASEF mass spectrometry. RESULTS: E-cigarette liquid concentration used in this study showed no mutagenic or genotoxic effect, however it negatively impacted metabolic cooperation between V79 cells. Both e-cigarette liquids induced significant depletion in total number of proteins and impairment of mitochondrial function in treated cells. The focal adhesion proteins were upregulated, which is in accordance with the results of metabolic cooperation assay. Increased presence of posttranslational modifications (PTMs), including carbonylation and direct oxidative modifications, was observed. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD032071. CONCLUSIONS: Our study revealed impairment of metabolic cooperation as well as significant proteome and PTMs alterations in V79 cells treated with e-cigarette liquid warranting future studies on e-cigarettes health impact.
PXD033899	35841000	Comprehensive proteomic analysis of exosome mimetic vesicles and exosomes derived from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells. 	Comprehensive proteomic analysis of exosome mimetic vesicles and exosomes derived from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells	Exosome mimetic vesicles, Exosomes, Mesenchymal stem cells	BACKGROUND: Exosomes derived from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown to have effective application prospects in the medical field, but exosome yield is very low. The production of exosome mimetic vesicles (EMVs) by continuous cell extrusion leads to more EMVs than exosomes, but whether the protein compositions of MSC-derived EMVs (MSC-EMVs) and exosomes (MSC-exosomes) are substantially different remains unknown. The purpose of this study was to conduct a comprehensive proteomic analysis of MSC-EMVs and MSC-exosomes and to simply explore the effects of exosomes and EMVs on wound healing ability. This study provides a theoretical basis for the application of EMVs and exosomes. METHODS: In this study, EMVs from human umbilical cord MSCs (hUC MSCs) were isolated by continuous extrusion, and exosomes were identified after hUC MSC ultracentrifugation. A proteomic analysis was performed, and 2315 proteins were identified. The effects of EMVs and exosomes on the proliferation, migration and angiogenesis of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were evaluated by cell counting kit-8, scratch wound, transwell and tubule formation assays. A mouse mode was used to evaluate the effects of EMVs and exosomes on wound healing. RESULTS: Bioinformatics analyses revealed that 1669 proteins in both hUC MSC-EMVs and hUC MSC-exosomes play roles in retrograde vesicle-mediated transport and vesicle budding from the membrane. The 382 proteins unique to exosomes participate in extracellular matrix organization and extracellular structural organization, and the 264 proteins unique to EMVs target the cell membrane. EMVs and exosomes can promote wound healing and angiogenesis in mice and promote the proliferation, migration and angiogenesis of HUVECs. CONCLUSIONS: This study presents a comprehensive proteomic analysis of hUC MSC-derived exosomes and EMVs generated by different methods. The tissue repair function of EMVs and exosomes was herein verified by wound healing experiments, and these results reveal their potential applications in different fields based on analyses of their shared and unique proteins.
PXD027142	35841001	Differentiated kidney tubular cell-derived extracellular vesicles enhance maturation of tubuloids. 	Renal cell-derived extracellular vesicles as a modulator of tubuloid functional maturation	extracellular vesicles, kidney organoids, organic ion transporter 1, tubuloids	The prevalence of end-stage kidney disease (ESKD) is rapidly increasing with the need for regenerative therapies. Adult stem cell derived kidney tubuloids have the potential to functionally mimic the adult kidney tubule, but still lack the expression of important transport proteins needed for waste removal. Here, we investigated the potential of extracellular vesicles (EVs) obtained from matured kidney tubular epithelial cells to modulate in vitro tubuloids functional maturation. We focused on organic anion transporter 1 (OAT1), one of the most important proteins involved in endogenous waste excretion. First, we show that EVs from engineered proximal tubule cells increased the expression of several transcription factors and epithelial transporters, resulting in improved OAT1 transport capacity. Next, a more in-depth proteomic data analysis showed that EVs can trigger various biological pathways, including mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition, which is crucial in the tubular epithelial maturation. Moreover, we demonstrated that the combination of EVs and tubuloid-derived cells can be used as part of a bioartificial kidney to generate a tight polarized epithelial monolayer with formation of dense cilia structures. In conclusion, EVs from kidney tubular epithelial cells can phenotypically improve in vitro tubuloid maturation, thereby enhancing their potential as functional units in regenerative or renal replacement therapies.
PXD028953	35842012	Phosphorylation of eIF4E in the stroma drives the production and spatial organisation of collagen type I in the mammary gland. 	Proteomics of extracellular matrix from eIF4E deficient mouse mammary fat pad	breast cancer, eIF4E, extracellular matrix, mammary fat pad	The extracellular matrix (ECM) plays critical roles in breast cancer development. Whether ECM composition is regulated by the phosphorylation of eIF4E on serine 209, an event required for tumorigenesis, has not been explored. Herein, we used proteomics and mouse modeling to investigate the impact of mutating serine 209 to alanine on eIF4E (i.e., S209A) on mammary gland (MG) ECM. The proteomic data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD028953. We discovered that S209A knock-in mice, expressing a non-phosphorylatable form of eIF4E, have less collagen-I deposition in native and tumor-bearing MGs, leading to altered tumor cell invasion. Additionally, phospho-eIF4E deficiency impacts collagen topology; fibers at the tumor-stroma boundary in phospho-eIF4E-deficient mice run parallel to the tumor edge but radiate outwards in wild-type mice. Finally, a phospho-eIF4E-deficient tumor microenvironment resists anti-PD-1 therapy-induced collagen deposition, correlating with an increased anti-tumor response to immunotherapy. Clinically, we showed that collagen-I and phospho-eIF4E are positively correlated in human breast cancer samples, and that stromal phospho-eIF4E expression is influenced by tumor proximity. Together, our work defines the importance of phosphorylation of eIF4E on S209 as a regulator of MG collagen architecture in the tumor microenvironment, thereby positioning phospho-eIF4E as a therapeutic target to augment response to therapy.
PXD032137	35842220	Identification of plasma proteins associated with oesophageal cancer chemotherapeutic treatment outcomes using SWATH-MS. 	Identification of plasma proteins associated with oesophageal cancer chemotherapeutic treatment outcomes using SWATH-MS	MAGIC regimen, chemotherapy, data-independent acquisition, oesophageal cancer, quantitative proteomics	Oesophageal adenocarcinoma (OAC) is an aggressive cancer with a five-year survival of <15%. Current chemotherapeutic strategies only benefit a minority (20-30%) of patients and there are no methods available to differentiate between responders and non-responders. We performed quantitative proteomics using Sequential Window Acquisition of all THeoretical fragment-ion spectra-Mass Spectrometry (SWATH-MS) on albumin/IgG-depleted and non-depleted plasma samples from 23 patients with locally advanced OAC prior to treatment. Individuals were grouped based on tumour regression (TRG) score (TRG1/2/3 vs TRG4/5) after chemotherapy, and differentially abundant proteins were compared. Protein depletion of highly abundant proteins led to the identification of around twice as many proteins. SWATH-MS revealed significant quantitative differences in the abundance of several proteins between the two groups. These included complement c1q subunit proteins, C1QA, C1QB and C1QC, which were of higher abundance in the low TRG group. Of those that were found to be of higher abundance in the high TRG group, glutathione S-transferase pi (GSTP1) exhibited the lowest p-value and highest classification accuracy and Cohen's kappa value. Concentrations of these proteins were further examined using ELISA-based assays. This study provides quantitative information relating to differences in the plasma proteome that underpin response to chemotherapeutic treatment in oesophageal cancers. SIGNIFICANCE: Oesophageal cancers, including oesophageal adenocarcinoma (OAC) and oesophageal gastric junction cancer (OGJ), are one of the leading causes of cancer mortality worldwide. Curative therapy consists of surgery, either alone or in combination with adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy or radiation, or combination chemoradiotherapy regimens. There are currently no clinico-pathological means of predicting which patients will benefit from chemotherapeutic treatments. There is therefore an urgent need to improve oesophageal cancer disease management and treatment strategies. This work compared proteomic differences in OAC patients who responded well to chemotherapy as compared to those who did not, using quantitative proteomics prior to treatment commencement. SWATH-MS analysis of plasma (with and without albumin/IgG-depletion) from OAC patients prior to chemotherapy was performed. This approach was adopted to determine whether depletion offered a significant improvement in peptide coverage. Resultant datasets demonstrated that depletion increased peptide coverage significantly. Additionally, there was good quantitative agreement between commonly observed peptides. Data analysis was performed by adopting both univariate as well as multivariate analysis strategies. Differentially abundant proteins were identified between treatment response groups based on tumour regression grade. Such proteins included complement C1q sub-components and GSTP1. This study provides a platform for further work, utilising larger sample sets across different treatment regimens for oesophageal cancer, that will aid the development of 'treatment response prediction assays' for stratification of OAC patients prior to chemotherapy.
PXD031251	35842415	Platelet proteome reveals features of cell death, antiviral response and viral replication in covid-19. 	PLATELET PROTEOME REVEALS FEATURES OF CELL DEATH, ANTIVIRAL RESPONSE AND VIRAL REPLICATION IN COVID-19.	COVID-19, PLATELET	Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has affected over 400 million people worldwide, leading to 6 million deaths. Among the complex symptomatology of COVID-19, hypercoagulation and thrombosis have been described to directly contribute to lethality, pointing out platelets as an important SARS-CoV-2 target. In this work, we explored the platelet proteome of COVID-19 patients through a label-free shotgun proteomics approach to identify platelet responses to infection, as well as validation experiments in a larger patient cohort. Exclusively detected proteins (EPs) and differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in the proteomic dataset and thus classified into biological processes to map pathways correlated with pathogenesis. Significant changes in the expression of proteins related to platelet activation, cell death, and antiviral response through interferon type-I were found in all patients. Since the outcome of COVID-19 varies highly among individuals, we also performed a cross-comparison of proteins found in survivors and nonsurvivors. Proteins belonging to the translation pathway were strongly highlighted in the nonsurvivor group. Moreover, the SARS-CoV-2 genome was fully sequenced in platelets from five patients, indicating viral internalization and preprocessing, with CD147 as a potential entry route. In summary, platelets play a significant role in COVID-19 pathogenesis via platelet activation, antiviral response, and disease severity.
PXD034004	35842431	Nanoparticle elasticity affects systemic circulation lifetime by modulating adsorption of apolipoprotein A-I in corona formation. 	Nanoparticle Elasticity Affects Systemic Circulation lifetime by Modulating the Adsorption of Apolipoprotein A-I in Corona Formation	ApoA1, Protein corona	Nanoparticle elasticity is crucial in nanoparticles' physiological fate, but how this occurs is largely unknown. Using core-shell nanoparticles with a same PEGylated lipid bilayer shell yet cores differing in elasticity (45 kPa - 760 MPa) as models, we isolate the effects of nanoparticle elasticity from those of other physiochemical parameters and, using mouse models, observe a non-monotonic relationship of systemic circulation lifetime versus nanoparticle elasticity. Incubating our nanoparticles in mouse plasma provides protein coronas varying non-monotonically in composition depending on nanoparticle elasticity. Particularly, apolipoprotein A-I (ApoA1) is the only protein whose relative abundance in corona strongly correlates with our nanoparticles' blood clearance lifetime. Notably, similar results are observed when above nanoparticles' PEGylated lipid bilayer shell is changed to be non-PEGylated. This work unveils the mechanisms by which nanoparticle elasticity affects nanoparticles' physiological fate and suggests nanoparticle elasticity as a readily tunable parameter in future rational exploiting of protein corona.
PXD034767	35842786	The additional PRC2 subunit and Sin3 histone deacetylase complex are required for the normal distribution of H3K27me3 occupancy and transcriptional silencing in Magnaporthe oryzae. 	Identification of main P55 interactors in Magnaporthe oryzae	AC-MS, Magnaporthe oryzae, PRC2	Development in higher organisms requires proper gene silencing, partially achieved through trimethylation of lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me3). However, how the normal distribution of this modification is established and maintained and how it affects gene expression remains unclear, especially in fungi. Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) catalyses H3K27me3 to assemble transcriptionally repressed facultative heterochromatin and is crucial in animals, plants, and fungi. Here, we report on the critical role of an additional PRC2 subunit in the normal distribution of H3K27me3 occupancy and the stable maintenance of gene repression in the rice fungal pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae. P55, identified as an additional PRC2 subunit, is physically associated with core subunits of PRC2 and is required for a complete level of H3K27me3 modification. Loss of P55 caused severe global defects in the normal distribution of H3K27me3 and transcriptional reprogramming on the H3K27me3-occupied genes. Furthermore, we found that the Sin3 histone deacetylase complex was required to sustain H3K27me3 occupancy and stably maintain gene repression by directly interacting with P55. Our results revealed a novel mechanism by which P55 and Sin3 participate in the normal distribution of facultative heterochromatic modifications and the stable maintenance of gene repression in eukaryotes.
PXD024512	35843546	Additive Effect of CD73 Inhibitor in Colorectal Cancer Treatment With CDK4/6 Inhibitor Through Regulation of PD-L1. 	Proteomics based analysis for associated PD-L1 in macrophage stimulated with extracellular adenosine signaling	macrophage adenosin	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Although cancer immunotherapies are effective for advanced-stage cancers, there are no clinically approved immunotherapies for colon cancers (CRCs). Therefore, there is a high demand for the development of novel therapies. Extracellular adenosine-mediated signaling is considered a promising target for advanced-stage cancers that are nonresponsive to programmed death 1 (PD-1)-/programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1)-targeted immunotherapies. In this study, we aimed to elucidate novel tumorigenic mechanisms of extracellular adenosine. METHODS: To investigate the effects of extracellular adenosine on tumor-associated macrophages, peripheral blood-derived human macrophages were treated with adenosine and analyzed using flow cytometry and Western blot. Changes in adenosine-treated macrophages were further assessed using multi-omics analysis, including total RNA sequencing and proteomics. Colon cancer mouse models were used to measure the therapeutic efficacy of AB680 and palbociclib. We also used tissue microarrays of patients with CRC, to evaluate their clinical relevance. RESULTS: Extracellular adenosine-mediated reduction of cyclin D1 (CCND1) was found to be critical for the regulation of immune checkpoint molecules and PD-L1 levels in human macrophages, indicating that post-translational modification of PD-L1 is affected by adenosine. A potent CD73 selective inhibitor, AB680, reversed the effects of adenosine on CCND1 and PD-L1. This result strongly suggests that AB680 is a combinatory therapeutic option to overcome the undesired side effects of the cyclin-dependent kinase 4/6 inhibitor, palbociclib, which increases PD-L1 expression in tumors. Because palbociclib is undergoing clinical trials for metastatic CRC in combination with cetuximab (clinical trial number: NCT03446157), we validated that the combination of AB680 and palbociclib significantly improved anti-tumor efficacy in CRC animal models, thereby highlighting it as a novel immunotherapeutic strategy. We further assessed whether the level of CCND1 in tumor-associated macrophages was indeed reduced in tumor sections obtained from patients with CRC, for evaluating the clinical relevance of this strategy. CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we demonstrated that a novel combination therapy of AB680 and palbociclib may be advantageous for the treatment of CRC.
PXD033382	35844135	Defining the proximal interaction networks of Arf GTPases reveals a mechanism for the regulation of PLD1 and PI4KB. 	Proximal interaction network of ARF GTPases	ARF GTPases, MS, TMT, proximal labeling	The Arf GTPase family is involved in a wide range of cellular regulation including membrane trafficking and organelle-structure assembly. Here, we have generated a proximity interaction network for the Arf family using the miniTurboID approach combined with TMT-based quantitative mass spectrometry. Our interactome confirmed known interactions and identified many novel interactors that provide leads for defining Arf pathway cell biological functions. We explored the unexpected finding that phospholipase D1 (PLD1) preferentially interacts with two closely related but poorly studied Arf family GTPases, ARL11 and ARL14, showing that PLD1 is activated by ARL11/14 and may recruit these GTPases to membrane vesicles, and that PLD1 and ARL11 collaborate to promote macrophage phagocytosis. Moreover, ARL5A and ARL5B were found to interact with and recruit phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase beta (PI4KB) at trans-Golgi, thus promoting PI4KB's function in PI4P synthesis and protein secretion.
PXD033177	35845673	Proteomic Analysis of S-Nitrosation Sites During Somatic Embryogenesis in Brazilian Pine, Araucaria angustifolia (Bertol.) Kuntze. 	Proteomic analysis of S-nitrosation sites in Araucaria angustifolia (Bertol.) Kuntze	Conifers, Embryogenesis, Nitric oxide, Nitrosative/oxidative stress, Nitrosoproteomic analysis	Cysteine S-nitrosation is a redox-based post-translational modification that mediates nitric oxide (NO) regulation of various aspects of plant growth, development and stress responses. Despite its importance, studies exploring protein signaling pathways that are regulated by S-nitrosation during somatic embryogenesis have not been performed. In the present study, endogenous cysteine S-nitrosation site and S-nitrosated proteins were identified by iodo-TMT labeling during somatic embryogenesis in Brazilian pine, an endangered native conifer of South America. In addition, endogenous -S-nitrosothiol (SNO) levels and S-nitrosoglutathione reductase (GSNOR) activity were determined in cell lines with contrasting embryogenic potential. Overall, we identified an array of proteins associated with a large variety of biological processes and molecular functions with some of them already described as important for somatic embryogenesis (Class IV chitinase, pyruvate dehydrogenase E1 and dehydroascorbate reductase). In total, our S-nitrosoproteome analyses identified 18 endogenously S-nitrosated proteins and 50 in vitro S-nitrosated proteins (after GSNO treatment) during cell culture proliferation and embryo development. Furthermore, SNO levels and GSNOR activity were increased during embryo formation. These findings expand our understanding of the Brazilian pine proteome and shed novel insights into the potential use of pharmacological manipulation of NO levels by using NO inhibitors and donors during somatic embryogenesis.
PXD033248	35845790	Intra- and Inter-individual Differences in the Human Intestinal Microbial Conversion of (-)-Epicatechin and Bioactivity of Its Major Colonic Metabolite 5-(3',4'-Dihydroxy-Phenyl)-gamma-Valerolactone in Regulating Nrf2-Mediated Gene Expression. 	Label free quantitative proteomic analysis on (-)-epicatechin (EC) and 5-(3',4'-dihydroxyphenyl)-gamma-valerolactone (3,4-diHPV) treated Caco-2 and Hepa1c1c7 cells	(-)-epicatechin, 4'-dihydroxyphenyl)-gamma-valerolactone, 5-(3', Caco-2, Hepa1c1c7	(-)-Epicatechin (EC) is one of the most popular polyphenols present in various food products in daily life. Upon intake, it is intensively metabolized by microbiota in the large intestine. In the present study, intra- and inter-individual variations in this gut microbial conversion of EC and the concomitant formation of its major metabolites, including 5-(3',4'-dihydroxy phenyl)-gamma-valerolactone (3,4-diHPV), were identified and quantified via liquid chromatography triple quadrupole mass spectrometry (LC-TQ-MS) in anaerobic fecal incubations. In addition, the bioactivity of EC and 3,4-diHPV in activating Nrf2-mediated gene expression was tested quantifying their effects in the U2OS Nrf2 CALUX assay (a reporter gene assay that is used to test the potency of chemicals in activation of Nrf2 signaling), and on the expression levels of Nrf2-related proteins in Hepa1c1c7 and Caco-2 cells via nanoLC-MSMS. A quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR) was carried out to confirm selected Nrf2-regulated gene expressions at the mRNA level. Results obtained show that both intra- and inter-individual differences exist in human gut microbial EC degradation and 3,4-diHPV formation, with inter-individual differences being more distinct than intra-individual differences. The metabolite, 3,4-diHPV, showed higher potency in the U2OS Nrf2 CALUX assay than EC itself. Among the obviously altered Nrf2-related proteins, 14 and 10 Nrf2-associated proteins were upregulated to a higher extent upon 3,4-diHPV treatment than in the EC treated group for Hepa1c1c7 and Caco-2 cells, respectively. While only three and four of these Nrf2-associated proteins were induced at a higher level upon EC than upon 3,4-diHPV treatment for Hepa1c1c7 and Caco-2 cells, respectively. RT-qPCR results showed that indeed Nrf2-mediated genes (e.g., Nqo1 and Ugt1a) were only induced significantly in 3,4-diHPV treated and not in EC treated Hepa1c1c7 cells. Taken together, the results suggest that the major colonic EC metabolite, 3,4-diHPV, was more capable of inducing Nrf2-mediated gene expression than its parent compound EC. This implies that the evident inter- and intra-individual differences in the microbial conversion of EC to this major metabolite 3,4-diHPV may affect the overall health-promoting effects of EC consumption related to the Nrf2 pathway activation.
PXD031030	35846751	Proteomics Study of the Synergistic Killing of Tigecycline in Combination With Aminoglycosides Against Carbapenem-Resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae. 	Proteomic analysis of carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae exposure to tigecycline and aminoglycosides	aminoglycosides, carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae, tigecycline	Co-administration of antibiotics with synergistic effects is one method to combat carbapenem-resistant organisms. Although the synergistic effects of tigecycline combined with aminoglycosides against carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae (CRKP) have been demonstrated in vitro and in animal models, the underlying mechanism remains elusive. Here we used proteomics analysis to assess the short-term bacterial responses to tigecycline and aminoglycosides alone or in combination. Emergence of tigecycline resistance during treatment and the susceptibility of tigecycline-resistant strains to aminoglycosides was further evaluated. The proteomic responses to tigecycline and aminoglycosides were divergent in monotherapy, with proteomic alterations to combination therapy dominated by tigecycline. Adaptive responses to tigecycline were associated with the upregulation of oxidative phosphorylation and translation-related proteins. These responses might confer CRKP hypersensitivity towards aminoglycosides by increasing the drug uptake and binding targets. Meanwhile, tigecycline might perturb adaptive responses to aminoglycosides through inhibition of heat shock response. Tigecycline-resistant strains could be isolated within 24 h exposure even in strains without heteroresistance, and the sensitivity to aminoglycosides significantly increased in resistant strains. Overall, these findings demonstrated that adaption to tigecycline in CRKP was a double-edged sword associated with the synergistic killing in tigecycline-aminoglycoside combination. Evolutionary hypersensitivity can provide novel insight into the mechanisms of antibiotic synergistic effects.
PXD033486	35847057	Dynamic Profile of S-Layer Proteins Controls Surface Properties of Emetic Bacillus cereus AH187 Strain. 	Surface proteome of emetic Bacillus cereus strain grown in glucose containing medium	AH187 strain, S-layer proteins, bacillus cereus, shotgun proteomics, surfaceome	Many prokaryotes are covered by a two-dimensional array of proteinaceous subunits. This surface layers (S-layer) is incompletely characterized for many microorganisms. Here, we studied Bacillus cereus AH187. A genome analysis identified two genes encoding the S-layer proteins SL2 and EA1, which we experimentally confirmed to encode the two protein components of the S-layer covering the surface of B. cereus. Shotgun proteomics analysis indicated that SL2 is the major component of the B. cereus S-layer at the beginning of exponential growth, whereas EA1 becomes more abundant than SL2 during later stages of stationary growth. Microscopy analysis revealed the spatial organization of SL2 and EA1 at the surface of B. cereus to depend on their temporal-dynamics during growth. Our results also show that a mutant strain lacking functional SL2 and EA1 proteins has distinct surface properties compared to its parental strain, in terms of stiffness and hydrophilicity during the stationary growth phase. Surface properties, self-aggregation capacity, and bacterial adhesion were observed to correlate. We conclude that the dynamics of SL2 and EA1 expression is a key determinant of the surface properties of B. cereus AH187, and that the S-layer could contribute to B. cereus survival in starvation conditions.
PXD025346	35847273	Predicting the Success of Fmoc-Based Peptide Synthesis. 	SPI-ART and the features of cis-spliced peptides in HLA class I immunopeptidomes	HLA-I, Immunopeptidome, K562 cell line, cis-spliced peptides, peptide splicing	Synthetic peptides are commonly used in biomedical science for many applications in basic and translational research. While peptide synthesis is generally easy and reliable, the chemical nature of some amino acids as well as the many steps and chemical compounds involved can render the synthesis of some peptide sequences difficult. Identification of these problematic sequences and mitigation of issues they may present can be important for the reliable use of peptide reagents in several contexts. Here, we assembled a large dataset of peptides that were synthesized using standard Fmoc chemistry and whose identity was validated using mass spectrometry. We analyzed the mass spectra to identify errors in peptide syntheses and sought to develop a computational tool to predict the likelihood that any given peptide sequence would be synthesized accurately. Our model, named Peptide Synthesis Score (PepSySco), is able to predict the likelihood that a peptide will be successfully synthesized based on its amino acid sequence.
PXD031655	35847980	Quantitative Analysis of the Protein Methylome Reveals PARP1 Methylation is involved in DNA Damage Response. 	Quantitiave analysis of protein methylome reveals the cellular response to ionizing radiation	DNA damage response, HILIC-affinity enrichment, Protein methylation	Protein methylation plays important roles in DNA damage response. To date, proteome-wide profiling of protein methylation upon DNA damage has been not reported yet. In this study, using HILIC affinity enrichment combined with MS analysis, we conducted a quantitative analysis of the methylated proteins in HEK293T cells in response to IR treatment. In total, 235 distinct methylation sites responding to IR treatment were identified, and 38% of them were previously unknown. Multiple RNA-binding proteins were differentially methylated upon DNA damage stress. Furthermore, we identified 14 novel methylation sites in DNA damage response-related proteins. Moreover, we validated the function of PARP1 K23 methylation in repairing IR-induced DNA lesions. K23 methylation deficiency sensitizes cancer cells to radiation and HU-induced replication stress. In addition, PARP1 K23 methylation participates in the resolution of stalled replication forks by regulating PARP1 binding to damaged forks. Taken together, this study generates a data resource for global protein methylation in response to IR-induced DNA damage and reveals a critical role of PARP1 K23 methylation in DNA repair.
PXD032095	35848328	Solvent Precipitation SP3 (SP4) Enhances Recovery for Proteomics Sample Preparation without Magnetic Beads. 	Solvent Precipitation SP3 (SP4) enhances recovery for proteomics sample preparation without magnetic beads	LCâˆ’MS/MS, contaminant removal, microparticles, protein aggregation, protein precipitation, sample preparation	Complete, reproducible extraction of protein material is essential for comprehensive and unbiased proteome analyses. A current gold standard is single-pot, solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation (SP3), in which organic solvent and magnetic beads are used to denature and capture protein aggregates, with subsequent washes removing contaminants. However, SP3 is dependent on effective protein immobilization onto beads, risks losses during wash steps, and exhibits losses and greater costs at higher protein inputs. Here, we propose solvent precipitation SP3 (SP4) as an alternative to SP3 protein cleanup, capturing acetonitrile-induced protein aggregates by brief centrifugation rather than magnetism-with optional low-cost inert glass beads to simplify handling. SP4 recovered equivalent or greater protein yields for 1-5000 mug preparations and improved reproducibility (median protein R(2) 0.99 (SP4) vs 0.97 (SP3)). Deep proteome profiling revealed that SP4 yielded a greater recovery of low-solubility and transmembrane proteins than SP3, benefits to aggregating protein using 80 vs 50% organic solvent, and equivalent recovery by SP4 and S-Trap. SP4 was verified in three other labs across eight sample types and five lysis buffers-all confirming equivalent or improved proteome characterization vs SP3. With near-identical recovery, this work further illustrates protein precipitation as the primary mechanism of SP3 protein cleanup and identifies that magnetic capture risks losses, especially at higher protein concentrations and among more hydrophobic proteins. SP4 offers a minimalistic approach to protein cleanup that provides cost-effective input scalability, the option to omit beads entirely, and suggests important considerations for SP3 applications-all while retaining the speed and compatibility of SP3.
PXD031047	35849344	LncRNA CTBP1-DT-encoded microprotein DDUP sustains DNA damage response signalling to trigger dual DNA repair mechanisms. 	Protein translation upon DNA damage	CPT, DNA damage, translation	Sustaining DNA damage response (DDR) signalling via retention of DDR factors at damaged sites is important for transmitting damage-sensing and repair signals. Herein, we found that DNA damage provoked the association of ribosomes with IRES region in lncRNA CTBP1-DT, which overcame the negative effect of upstream open reading frames (uORFs), and elicited the novel microprotein DNA damage-upregulated protein (DDUP) translation via a cap-independent translation mechanism. Activated ATR kinase-mediated phosphorylation of DDUP induced a drastic 'dense-to-loose' conformational change, which sustained the RAD18/RAD51C and RAD18/PCNA complex at damaged sites and initiated RAD51C-mediated homologous recombination and PCNA-mediated post-replication repair mechanisms. Importantly, treatment with ATR inhibitor abolished the effect of DDUP on chromatin retention of RAD51C and PCNA, thereby leading to hypersensitivity of cancer cells to DNA-damaging chemotherapeutics. Taken together, our results uncover a plausible mechanism underlying the DDR sustaining and might represent an attractive therapeutic strategy in improvement of DNA damage-based anticancer therapies.
PXD026864	35850772	Combinatorial targeting of a chromatin complex comprising Dot1L, menin and the tyrosine kinase BAZ1B reveals a new therapeutic vulnerability of endocrine therapy-resistant breast cancer. 	DOT1 Like Histone Lysine Methyltransferase (DOT1L) and  Menin 1 (MEN1) interaction proteomics in breast cancer cell nuclei	DOT1L, MEN1, breast cancer, endocrine therapy resistance, interaction proteomics	BACKGROUND: Targeting vulnerabilities of cancer cells by inhibiting key regulators of cell proliferation or survival represents a promising way to overcome resistance to current therapies. In breast cancer (BC), resistance to endocrine therapy results from constitutively active or aberrant estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) signaling to the genome. Targeting components of the ERalpha pathway in these tumors represents, therefore, a rational way toward effective new treatments. Interaction proteomics identified several proteins associated with ERalpha in BC cells, including epigenetic complexes controlling gene transcription comprising the scaffold protein menin and the histone methyltransferase Dot1L. METHODS: We combined chromatin immunoprecipitation, transcriptome sequencing, siRNA-mediated gene knockdown (kd), pharmacological inhibition coupled to cellular and functional assays and interaction proteomics in antiestrogen (AE)-sensitive and AE-resistant human BC cell models to: map menin and Dot1L chromatin localization, search for their common and specific target genes, measure the effects of single or combinatorial knockdown or pharmacological inhibition of these proteins on cell proliferation and survival, and characterize their nuclear interactomes. RESULTS: Dot1L and menin associate in MCF-7 cells chromatin, where they co-localize in a significant fraction of sites, resulting in co-regulation of genes involved, among others, in estrogen, p53, HIF1alpha and death receptor signaling, regulation of cell cycle and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Specific inhibitors of the two factors synergize with each other for inhibition of cell proliferation of AE (tamoxifen or fulvestrant)-sensitive and AE-resistant BC cells. Menin and Dot1L interactomes share a sizeable fraction of their nuclear partners, the majority being known BC fitness genes. Interestingly, these include B-WICH and WINAC complexes that share BAZ1B, a bromodomain protein comprising a tyrosine-protein kinase domain playing a central role in chromatin remodeling and transcriptional regulation. BAZ1B kd caused significant inhibition of ERalpha expression, proliferation and transcriptome changes resulting in inhibition of estrogen, myc, mTOR, PI3K and AKT signaling and metabolic pathways in AE-sensitive and AE-resistant BC cells. CONCLUSIONS: Identification of a functional interplay between ERalpha, Dot1L, menin and BAZ1B and the significant effects of their co-inhibition on cell proliferation and survival in cell models of endocrine therapy-resistant BC reveal a new therapeutic vulnerability of these aggressive diseases.
PXD056821	35851582	JAK2-CHK2 signaling safeguards the integrity of the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint and genome stability. 	JAK2-CHK2 signaling safeguards the integrity of the mitotic spindle assembly checkpoint and genome stability	CHK2, Phosphorylation	Checkpoint kinase 2 (CHK2) plays an important role in safeguarding the mitotic progression, specifically the spindle assembly, though the mechanism of regulation remains poorly understood. Here, we identified a novel mitotic phosphorylation site on CHK2 Tyr156, and its responsible kinase JAK2. Expression of a phospho-deficient mutant CHK2 Y156F or treatment with JAK2 inhibitor IV compromised mitotic spindle assembly, leading to genome instability. In contrast, a phospho-mimicking mutant CHK2 Y156E restored mitotic normalcy in JAK2-inhibited cells. Mechanistically, we show that this phosphorylation is required for CHK2 interaction with and phosphorylation of the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) kinase Mps1, and failure of which results in impaired Mps1 kinetochore localization and defective SAC. Concordantly, analysis of clinical cancer datasets revealed that deletion of JAK2 is associated with increased genome alteration; and alteration in CHEK2 and JAK2 is linked to preferential deletion or amplification of cancer-related genes. Thus, our findings not only reveal a novel JAK2-CHK2 signaling axis that maintains genome integrity through SAC but also highlight the potential impact on genomic stability with clinical JAK2 inhibition.
PXD033794	35851595	Proteomic analysis reveals key differences between squamous cell carcinomas and adenocarcinomas across multiple tissues. 	Proteomic analysis reveals key differences between squamous cell carcinomas and adenocarcinomas across multiple tissues	Adenocarcinoma, Squamous cell carcinoma	Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and adenocarcinoma (AC) are two main histological subtypes of solid cancer; however, SCCs are derived from different organs with similar morphologies, and it is challenging to distinguish the origin of metastatic SCCs. Here we report a deep proteomic analysis of 333 SCCs of 17 organs and 69 ACs of 7 organs. Proteomic comparison between SCCs and ACs identifies distinguishable pivotal pathways and molecules in those pathways play consistent adverse or opposite prognostic roles in ACs and SCCs. A comparison between common and rare SCCs highlights lipid metabolism may reinforce the malignancy of rare SCCs. Proteomic clusters reveal anatomical features, and kinase-transcription factor networks indicate differential SCC characteristics, while immune subtyping reveals diverse tumor microenvironments across and within diagnoses and identified potential druggable targets. Furthermore, tumor-specific proteins provide candidates with differentially diagnostic values. This proteomics architecture represents a public resource for researchers seeking a better understanding of SCCs and ACs.
PXD033381	35852604	Neuromelanin granules of the substantia nigra: proteomic profile provides links to tyrosine hydroxylase, stress granules and lysosomes. 	Neuromelanin granules of the substantia nigra: proteomic profile provides links to tyrosine hydroxylase, stress granules and lysosomes	Neuromelanin granules, laser microdissection, neuromelanin synthesis, stress granules, substantia nigra pars compacta	Neuromelanin is a black-brownish pigment, present in so-called neuromelanin granules (NMGs) in the cell bodies of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) pars compacta. These neurons are lost in neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies. Although it is known that lipids, proteins, and environmental toxins accumulate in NMGs, the function of NMGs has not yet been finally clarified as well as their origin and the synthesis of neuromelanin. We, therefore, isolated NMGs and surrounding SN tissue from control patients by laser microdissection and analyzed the proteomic profile by tandem mass spectrometry. With our improved workflow, we were able to (1) strengthen the regularly reported link between NMGs and lysosomes, (2) detect tyrosine hydroxylase to be highly abundant in NMGs, which may be related to neuromelanin synthesis and (3) indicate a yet undescribed link between stress granules (SGs) and NMGs. Based on our findings, we cautiously hypothesize, that SGs may be the origin of NMGs or form in close proximity to them, potentially due to the oxidative stress caused by neuromelanin-bound metals.
PXD030036	35853851	N-glycosylation of GDF15 abolishes its inhibitory effect on EGFR in AR inhibitor-resistant prostate cancer cells. 	prostate cancer cell LNCaP_cell glycosylation_GDF15 glycosylation inducing CRPC	TNT10, glycosylation	Castration-resistance of prostate cancer is one of the most challenging clinical problems. In the present study, we have performed proteomics and glycomics using LNCaP model. Growth differentiation factor-15 (GDF15) level is increased in androgen receptor (AR) inhibitor-resistant cells and the inhibitory effect of GDF15 on epithelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) pathway is relieved by GDF15 N70 glycosylation. Interference of GDF15 (siRNA or N70Q dominant negative) or EGFR pathway (inhibitor or siRNA for EGFR, SRC or ERK) decreases the resistant-cell survival in culture and tumor growth in mice. Our study reveals a novel regulatory mechanism of prostate cancer AR inhibitor resistance, raises the possibility of AR/SRC dual-targeting of castration-resistance of prostate cancer, and lays foundation for the future development of selective inhibitors of GDF15 glycosylation.
PXD025389	35853934	Activation of CD44/PAK1/AKT signaling promotes resistance to FGFR1 inhibition in squamous-cell lung cancer. 	Activation of CD44 / AKT signaling promotes resistance to FGFR1 inhibition in squamous cell lung cancer	AKT, CD44, FGFR1, lung cancer, phosphoproteomics	Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide. Fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 (FGFR1) gene amplification is one of the most prominent and potentially targetable genetic alterations in squamous-cell lung cancer (SQCLC). Highly selective tyrosine kinase inhibitors have been developed to target FGFR1; however, resistance mechanisms originally existing in patients or acquired during treatment have so far led to limited treatment efficiency in clinical trials. In this study we performed a wide-scale phosphoproteomic mass-spectrometry analysis to explore signaling pathways that lead to resistance toward FGFR1 inhibition in lung cancer cells that display (i) intrinsic, (ii) pharmacologically induced and (iii) mutationally induced resistance. Additionally, we correlated AKT activation to CD44 expression in 175 lung cancer patient samples. We identified a CD44/PAK1/AKT signaling axis as a commonly occurring resistance mechanism to FGFR1 inhibition in lung cancer. Co-inhibition of AKT/FGFR1, CD44/FGFR1 or PAK1/FGFR1 sensitized 'intrinsically resistant' and 'induced-resistant' lung-cancer cells synergetically to FGFR1 inhibition. Furthermore, strong CD44 expression was significantly correlated with AKT activation in SQCLC patients. Collectively, our phosphoproteomic analysis of lung-cancer cells resistant to FGFR1 inhibitor provides a large data library of resistance-associated phosphorylation patterns and leads to the proposal of a common resistance pathway comprising CD44, PAK1 and AKT activation. Examination of CD44/PAK1/AKT activation could help to predict response to FGFR1 inhibition. Moreover, combination between AKT and FGFR1 inhibitors may pave the way for an effective therapy of patients with treatment-resistant FGFR1-dependent lung cancer.
PXD029630	35857500	RRM2 enhances MYCN-driven neuroblastoma formation and acts as a synergistic target with CHK1 inhibition. 	CasID on RRM2 promoter region in neuroblastoma	BioID, CasID, RRM2, neuroblastoma	High-risk neuroblastoma, a pediatric tumor originating from the sympathetic nervous system, has a low mutation load but highly recurrent somatic DNA copy number variants. Previously, segmental gains and/or amplifications allowed identification of drivers for neuroblastoma development. Using this approach, combined with gene dosage impact on expression and survival, we identified ribonucleotide reductase subunit M2 (RRM2) as a candidate dependency factor further supported by growth inhibition upon in vitro knockdown and accelerated tumor formation in a neuroblastoma zebrafish model coexpressing human RRM2 with MYCN. Forced RRM2 induction alleviates excessive replicative stress induced by CHK1 inhibition, while high RRM2 expression in human neuroblastomas correlates with high CHK1 activity. MYCN-driven zebrafish tumors with RRM2 co-overexpression exhibit differentially expressed DNA repair genes in keeping with enhanced ATR-CHK1 signaling activity. In vitro, RRM2 inhibition enhances intrinsic replication stress checkpoint addiction. Last, combinatorial RRM2-CHK1 inhibition acts synergistic in high-risk neuroblastoma cell lines and patient-derived xenograft models, illustrating the therapeutic potential.
PXD032397	35857868	Phosphorylation of Arl4A/D promotes their binding by the HYPK chaperone for their stable recruitment to the plasma membrane. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of human Arl4A upon fibronectin stimulation	Arf-like GTPase, Arl4A, Fibronectin, HYPK, Pak1	The Arl4 small GTPases participate in a variety of cellular events, including cytoskeleton remodeling, vesicle trafficking, cell migration, and neuronal development. Whereas small GTPases are typically regulated by their GTPase cycle, Arl4 proteins have been found to act independent of this canonical regulatory mechanism. Here, we show that Arl4A and Arl4D (Arl4A/D) are unstable due to proteasomal degradation, but stimulation of cells by fibronectin (FN) inhibits this degradation to promote Arl4A/D stability. Proteomic analysis reveals that FN stimulation induces phosphorylation at S143 of Arl4A and at S144 of Arl4D. We identify Pak1 as the responsible kinase for these phosphorylations. Moreover, these phosphorylations promote the chaperone protein HYPK to bind Arl4A/D, which stabilizes their recruitment to the plasma membrane to promote cell migration. These findings not only advance a major mechanistic understanding of how Arl4 proteins act in cell migration but also achieve a fundamental understanding of how these small GTPases are modulated by revealing that protein stability, rather than the GTPase cycle, acts as a key regulatory mechanism.
PXD030197	35858407	The global succinylation of SARS-CoV-2-infected host cells reveals drug targets. 	The global succinylation of SARS-CoV-2-infect host cells reveals potential drug targets	SARS-CoV-2, succinylproteomics	SARS-CoV-2, the causative agent of the COVID-19 pandemic, undergoes continuous evolution, highlighting an urgent need for development of novel antiviral therapies. Here we show a quantitative mass spectrometry-based succinylproteomics analysis of SARS-CoV-2 infection in Caco-2 cells, revealing dramatic reshape of succinylation on host and viral proteins. SARS-CoV-2 infection promotes succinylation of several key enzymes in the TCA, leading to inhibition of cellular metabolic pathways. We demonstrated that host protein succinylation is regulated by viral nonstructural protein (NSP14) through interaction with sirtuin 5 (SIRT5); overexpressed SIRT5 can effectively inhibit virus replication. We found succinylation inhibitors possess significant antiviral effects. We also found that SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid and membrane proteins underwent succinylation modification, which was conserved in SARS-CoV-2 and its variants. Collectively, our results uncover a regulatory mechanism of host protein posttranslational modification and cellular pathways mediated by SARS-CoV-2, which may become antiviral drug targets against COVID-19.
PXD026615	35858906	Comprehensive and systematic characterization of multi-functionalized cisplatin nano-conjugate: from the chemistry and proteomic biocompatibility to the animal model. 	Comprehensive and systematic characterization of novel nanodrug conjugate based on multi-functionalized magnetic iron-nanoparticles conjugated with cisplatin derivative: From the chemistry to the animal model	Cisplatin, Nanoparticles (NPs), intracellular pathways, protein corona, protein labeling	BACKGROUND: Nowadays, nanoparticles (NPs) have evolved as multifunctional systems combining different custom anchorages which opens a wide range of applications in biomedical research. Thus, their pharmacological involvements require more comprehensive analysis and novel nanodrugs should be characterized by both chemically and biological point of view. Within the wide variety of biocompatible nanosystems, iron oxide nanoparticles (IONPs) present mostly of the required features which make them suitable for multifunctional NPs with many biopharmaceutical applications. RESULTS: Cisplatin-IONPs and different functionalization stages have been broadly evaluated. The potential application of these nanodrugs in onco-therapies has been assessed by studying in vitro biocompatibility (interactions with environment) by proteomics characterization the determination of protein corona in different proximal fluids (human plasma, rabbit plasma and fetal bovine serum),. Moreover, protein labeling and LC-MS/MS analysis provided more than 4000 proteins de novo synthetized as consequence of the nanodrugs presence defending cell signaling in different tumor cell types (data available via ProteomeXchanges with identified PXD026615). Further in vivo studies have provided a more integrative view of the biopharmaceutical perspectives of IONPs. CONCLUSIONS: Pharmacological proteomic profile different behavior between species and different affinity of protein coating layers (soft and hard corona). Also, intracellular signaling exposed differences between tumor cell lines studied. First approaches in animal model reveal the potential of theses NPs as drug delivery vehicles and confirm cisplatin compounds as strengthened antitumoral agents.
PXD035267	35858951	Proteins, possibly human, found in World War II concentration camp artifact. 	Proteins, possibly human, found in World War II concentration camp artifact	bone, cremains, species	Museums displaying artifacts of the human struggle against oppression are often caught in their own internal struggle between presenting factual and unbiased descriptions of their collections, or relying on testament of survivors. Often this quandary is resolved in favor of what can be verified, not what is remembered. However, with improving instrumentation, methods and informatic approaches, science can help uncover evidence able to reconcile memory and facts. Following World War II, thousands of small, cement-like disks with numbers impressed on one side were found at concentration camps throughout Europe. Survivors claimed these disks were made of human cremains; museums erred on the side of caution-without documentation of the claims, was it justifiable to present them as fact? The ability to detect species relevant biological material in these disks could help resolve this question. Proteomic mass spectrometry of five disks revealed all contained proteins, including collagens and hemoglobins, suggesting they were made, at least in part, of animal remains. A new protein/informatics approach to species identification showed that while human was not always identified as the top contributor, human was the most likely explanation for one disk. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of protein recovery from cremains. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD035267.
PXD025369	35859172	Oocytes maintain ROS-free mitochondrial metabolism by suppressing complex I. 	Comparison of human primordial oocyte follicles to ovarian somatic cells	mitochondria, oocyte	Oocytes form before birth and remain viable for several decades before fertilization(1). Although poor oocyte quality accounts for most female fertility problems, little is known about how oocytes maintain cellular fitness, or why their quality eventually declines with age(2). Reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced as by-products of mitochondrial activity are associated with lower rates of fertilization and embryo survival(3-5). Yet, how healthy oocytes balance essential mitochondrial activity with the production of ROS is unknown. Here we show that oocytes evade ROS by remodelling the mitochondrial electron transport chain through elimination of complex I. Combining live-cell imaging and proteomics in human and Xenopus oocytes, we find that early oocytes exhibit greatly reduced levels of complex I. This is accompanied by a highly active mitochondrial unfolded protein response, which is indicative of an imbalanced electron transport chain. Biochemical and functional assays confirm that complex I is neither assembled nor active in early oocytes. Thus, we report a physiological cell type without complex I in animals. Our findings also clarify why patients with complex-I-related hereditary mitochondrial diseases do not experience subfertility. Complex I suppression represents an evolutionarily conserved strategy that allows longevity while maintaining biological activity in long-lived oocytes.
PXD033481	35860309	Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Vital Role of Synaptic Plasticity in the Pathogenesis of Temporal Lobe Epilepsy. 	Proteomic analysis hippocampus  in TLE rats	ITRAQ, Proteomic analysis, TLE	Temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) is a chronic neurological disorder that is often resistant to antiepileptic drugs. The pathogenesis of TLE is extremely complicated and remains elusive. Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying TLE is crucial for its diagnosis and treatment. In the present study, a lithium-pilocarpine-induced TLE model was employed to reveal the pathological changes of hippocampus in rats. Hippocampal samples were taken for proteomic analysis at 2 weeks after the onset of spontaneous seizure (a chronic stage of epileptogenesis). Isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantization (iTRAQ) coupled with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) technique was applied for proteomic analysis of hippocampus. A total of 4173 proteins were identified from the hippocampi of epileptic rats and its control, of which 27 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were obtained with a fold change > 1.5 and P < 0.05. Bioinformatics analysis indicated 27 DEPs were mainly enriched in "regulation of synaptic plasticity and structure" and "calmodulin-dependent protein kinase activity," which implicate synaptic remodeling may play a vital role in the pathogenesis of TLE. Consequently, the synaptic plasticity-related proteins and synaptic structure were investigated to verify it. It has been demonstrated that CaMKII-alpha, CaMKII-beta, and GFAP were significant upregulated coincidently with proteomic analysis in the hippocampus of TLE rats. Moreover, the increased dendritic spines and hippocampal sclerosis further proved that synaptic plasticity involves in the development of TLE. The present study may help to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying epileptogenesis and provide a basis for further studies on synaptic plasticity in TLE.
PXD029055	35863430	A new circular RNA-encoded protein BIRC6-236aa inhibits transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV)-induced mitochondrial dysfunction. 	CircBIRC6-2 inhibits transmissible gastroenteritis virus induced mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening by its encoding protein	interacting protein, peptide analysis	Transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV), a member of the coronavirus family, is the pathogen responsible for transmissible gastroenteritis, which results in mitochondrial dysfunction in host cells. Previously, we identified 123 differentially expressed circular RNAs (cRNA)from the TGEV-infected porcine intestinal epithelial cell line jejunum 2 (IPEC-J2). Previous bioinformatics analysis suggested that, of these, circBIRC6 had the potential to regulate mitochondrial function. Furthermore, mitochondrial permeability transition, a key step in the process of mitochondrial dysfunction, is known to be caused by abnormal opening of mitochondrial permeability transition pores (mPTPs) regulated by the voltage-dependent anion-selective channel protein 1 (VDAC)-Cyclophilin D (CypD) complex. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the effects of circBIRC6-2 on mitochondrial dysfunction and opening of mPTPs. We found that TGEV infection reduced circBIRC6-2 levels, which in turn reduced mitochondrial calcium (Ca(2+)) levels, the decrease of mitochondrial membrane potential, and opening of mPTPs. In addition, we also identified ORFs and internal ribosomal entrance sites within the circBIRC6-2 RNA. We demonstrate circBIRC6-2 encodes a novel protein, BIRC6-236aa, which we show inhibits TGEV-induced opening of mPTPs during TGEV infection. Mechanistically, we identified an interaction between BIRC6-236aa and VDAC1, suggesting that BIRC6-236aa destabilizes the VDAC1-CypD complex. Taken together, the results suggest that the novel protein BIRC6-236aa encoded by cRNA circBIRC6-2 inhibits mPTP opening and subsequent mitochondrial dysfunction by interacting with VDAC1.
PXD030760	35864093	Engineered biomimetic nanoparticles achieve targeted delivery and efficient metabolism-based synergistic therapy against glioblastoma. 	Proteomics analysis of  glioma cells and astrocytes	Proteomics analysis,glioma cells,astrocytes	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is an aggressive brain cancer with a poor prognosis and few treatment options. Here, building on the observation of elevated lactate (LA) in resected GBM, we develop biomimetic therapeutic nanoparticles (NPs) that deliver agents for LA metabolism-based synergistic therapy. Because our self-assembling NPs are encapsulated in membranes derived from glioma cells, they readily penetrate the blood-brain barrier and target GBM through homotypic recognition. After reaching the tumors, lactate oxidase in the NPs converts LA into pyruvic acid (PA) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). The PA inhibits cancer cell growth by blocking histones expression and inducing cell-cycle arrest. In parallel, the H2O2 reacts with the delivered bis[2,4,5-trichloro-6-(pentyloxycarbonyl)phenyl] oxalate to release energy, which is used by the co-delivered photosensitizer chlorin e6 for the generation of cytotoxic singlet oxygen to kill glioma cells. Such a synergism ensures strong therapeutic effects against both glioma cell-line derived and patient-derived xenograft models.
PXD027764	35864333	A modification-centric assessment tool for the performance of chemoproteomic probes. 	pChem_benchmarking_dataset_redoxome	Chemoproteomics, pChem, redoxome	Chemoproteomics has emerged as a key technology to expand the functional space in complex proteomes for probing fundamental biology and for discovering new small-molecule-based therapies. Here we report a modification-centric computational tool termed pChem to provide a streamlined pipeline for unbiased performance assessment of chemoproteomic probes. The pipeline starts with an experimental setting for isotopically coding probe-derived modifications that can be automatically recognized by pChem, with masses accurately calculated and sites precisely localized. pChem exports on-demand reports by scoring the profiling efficiency, modification homogeneity and proteome-wide residue selectivity of a tested probe. The performance and robustness of pChem were benchmarked by applying it to eighteen bioorthogonal probes. These analyses reveal that the formation of unexpected probe-derived modifications can be driven by endogenous reactive metabolites (for example, bioactive aldehydes and glutathione). pChem is a powerful and user-friendly tool that aims to facilitate the development of probes for the ever-growing field of chemoproteomics.
PXD027769	35864335	Systematic discovery of biomolecular condensate-specific protein phosphorylation. 	Systematic investigation of protein phosphorylation in biomolecular condensates	biomolecular condensate, phosphorylation, protein solubility	Reversible protein phosphorylation is an important mechanism for regulating (dis)assembly of biomolecular condensates. However, condensate-specific phosphosites remain largely unknown, thereby limiting our understanding of the underlying mechanisms. Here, we combine solubility proteome profiling with phosphoproteomics to quantitatively map several hundred phosphosites enriched in either soluble or condensate-bound protein subpopulations, including a subset of phosphosites modulating protein-RNA interactions. We show that multi-phosphorylation of the C-terminal disordered segment of heteronuclear ribonucleoprotein A1 (HNRNPA1), a key RNA-splicing factor, reduces its ability to locate to nuclear clusters. For nucleophosmin 1 (NPM1), an essential nucleolar protein, we show that phosphorylation of S254 and S260 is crucial for lowering its partitioning to the nucleolus and additional phosphorylation of distal sites enhances its retention in the nucleoplasm. These phosphorylation events decrease RNA and protein interactions of NPM1 to regulate its condensation. Our dataset is a rich resource for systematically uncovering the phosphoregulation of biomolecular condensates.
PXD033227	35865947	AKT/PACS2 Participates in Renal Vascular Hyperpermeability by Regulating Endothelial Fatty Acid Oxidation in Diabetic Mice. 	AKT/PACS2 participates in renal vascular hyperpermeability by regulating endothelial fatty acid oxidation in diabetic mice	Diabetes, PACS2, Vascular permeability, endoplasmic reticulum, endothelial cell, fatty acid oxidation, mitochondria	Diabetes is a chronic metabolic disorder that can cause many microvascular and macrovascular complications, including diabetic nephropathy. Endothelial cells exhibit phenotypic and metabolic diversity and are affected by metabolic disorders. Whether changes in endothelial cell metabolism affect vascular endothelial function in diabetic nephropathy remains unclear. In diabetic mice, increased renal microvascular permeability and fibrosis, as well as increased MAMs and PACS2 in renal endothelial cells, were observed. Mice lacking PACS2 improved vascular leakage and glomerulosclerosis under high fat diet. In vitro, PACS2 expression, VE-cadherin internalization, fibronectin production, and Smad-2 phosphorylation increased in HUVECs treated with high glucose and palmitic acid (HGHF). Pharmacological inhibition of AKT significantly reduced HGHF-induced upregulation of PACS2 and p-Smad2 expression. Blocking fatty acid beta-oxidation (FAO) ameliorated the impaired barrier function mediated by HGHF. Further studies observed that HGHF induced decreased FAO, CPT1alpha expression, ATP production, and NADPH/NADP(+) ratio in endothelial cells. However, these changes in fatty acid metabolism were rescued by silencing PACS2. In conclusion, PACS2 participates in renal vascular hyperpermeability and glomerulosclerosis by regulating the FAO of diabetic mice. Targeting PACS2 is potential new strategy for the treatment of diabetic nephropathy.
PXD034652	35866080	Free Fatty Acid and alpha-Lactalbumin-Oleic Acid Complexes in Preterm Human Milk Are Cytotoxic to Fetal Intestinal Cells in vitro. 	Free fatty acid and alphaâ€lactalbuminâ€oleic acid complexes in preterm human milk are cytotoxic to fetal intestinal cells in vitro	ARA - 20:4n-6, Alpha-lactalbumin, Fetal intestinal epithelium, Growth, HAMLET (human alpha-lactalbumin made lethal to tumor cells), Lactoferrin, Necrotizing entercolitis, Oleic Acid, cytotoxic, free fatty acid, human milk, prematurity	Human milk, the best enteral selection for a preterm infant, becomes altered during freezing and soluble free fatty acid is generated over time. Free fatty acids may form complexes, such as the oleic acid-bound protein called HAMLET (human alpha-lactalbumin made lethal to tumor cells). We determined the in vitro biological activity of preterm human milk protein-oleic complexes (HAMLET-like complexes) and tested the hypothesis that laboratory-synthesized HAMLET exhibits cytotoxicity in human immature epithelial intestinal cell culture. Thirty-four milk samples from 15 mothers of hospitalized preterm infants were donated over time. Milk fractions were tested repeatedly for FHs 74 Int and HIEC-6 fetal cell cytotoxicity, using a sensitive viability assay. Protein and fatty acid identities were confirmed by Western blot, high performance liquid chromatography, and mass spectrometry. Cytotoxicity of intestinal cells exposed to milk increased respective to milk storage time (p < 0.001) and was associated with free oleic acid (p = 0.009). Synthesized HAMLET was cytotoxic in cultures of both lines. Preterm milk samples killed most cells in culture after an average 54 days in frozen storage (95% C.I. 34-72 days). After prolonged storage time, preterm milk and HAMLET showed a degree of cytotoxicity to immature intestinal cells in culture.
PXD034427	35866514	Fingolimod effects on the brain are mediated through biochemical modulation of bioenergetics, autophagy, and neuroinflammatory networks. 	Fingolimod effects on the brain  are mediated through biochemical modulation of bioenergetics, autophagy and neuroinflammatory networks	Brain, Cerebellum, Fingolimod, Frontal Cortex	Fingolimod (FTY720) is an oral drug approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for management of multiple sclerosis (MS) symptoms, which has also shown beneficial effects against Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's (PD) diseases pathologies. Although an extensive effort has been made to identify mechanisms underpinning its therapeutic effects, much remains unknown. Here, we investigated Fingolimod induced proteome changes in the cerebellum (CB) and frontal cortex (FC) regions of the brain which are known to be severely affected in MS, using a tandem mass tag (TMT) isobaric labeling-based quantitative mass-spectrometric approach to investigate the mechanism of action of Fingolimod. This study identified 6749 and 6319 proteins in CB and FC, respectively, and returned 2609 and 3086 differentially expressed proteins in mouse CB and FC, respectively, between Fingolimod treated and control groups. Subsequent bioinformatics analyses indicated a metabolic reprogramming in both brain regions of the Fingolimod treated group, where oxidative phosphorylation was upregulated while glycolysis and pentose phosphate pathway were downregulated. In addition, modulation of neuroinflammation in the Fingolimod treated group was indicated by upregulation of retrograde endocannabinoid signaling and autophagy pathways, and downregulation of neuroinflammation related pathways including neutrophil degranulation and the IL-12 mediated signaling pathway. Our findings suggest that Fingolimod may exert its protective effects on the brain by inducing metabolic reprogramming and neuroinflammation pathway modulation.
PXD028246	35867033	And-1 Coordinates with the FANCM Complex to Regulate Fanconi Anemia Signaling and Cisplatin Resistance. 	Human HEK293T cells LC-MS/MS (Gel-based proteomics)	Fanconi Anemia Pathway, Human cells, WDHD1	The Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway is essential for repairing DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICL). ICLs induce stalled DNA replication forks and trigger activation of the FA pathway by promoting recruitment of the FANCM/FAAP24/MHF complex to ICL sites. Given that stalled replication forks are proximal to ICL sites, fork-associated proteins may coordinate with FA factors to rapidly sense ICLs for activation of FA signaling. Here we report that And-1, a replisome protein, is critical for activation of the FA pathway by sensing ICL-stalled forks and recruiting the FANCM/FAAP24 complex to ICLs. In response to ICLs, And-1 rapidly accumulated at ICL-stalled forks in a manner dependent on ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related protein-induced phosphorylation at T826. And-1 phosphorylation triggered an intramolecular change that promoted the interaction of And-1 with FANCM/FAAP24, resulting in recruitment of the FANCM/FAAP24 complex to ICLs. Furthermore, p-T826 And-1 was elevated in cisplatin-resistant ovarian cancer cells, and activated And-1 contributed to cisplatin resistance. Collectively, these studies elucidate a mechanism by which And-1 regulates FA signaling and identify And-1 as a potential target for developing therapeutic approaches to treat platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. SIGNIFICANCE: This work shows that phosphorylation of And-1 by ATR activates Fanconi anemia signaling at interstrand crosslink-stalled replication forks by recruiting the FANCM/FAAP24 complex, revealing And-1 as a potential therapeutic target in cancer.
PXD033050	35867055	Compound Interaction Screen on a Photoactivatable Cellulose Membrane (CISCM) Identifies Drug Targets. 	Compound interaction screen on a photoactivatable cellulose membrane (CISCM) identifies drug targets	human affinity purification-mass spectrometry samples	Identifying the protein targets of drugs is an important but tedious process. Existing proteomic approaches enable unbiased target identification but lack the throughput needed to screen larger compound libraries. Here, we present a compound interaction screen on a photoactivatable cellulose membrane (CISCM) that enables target identification of several drugs in parallel. To this end, we use diazirine-based undirected photoaffinity labeling (PAL) to immobilize compounds on cellulose membranes. Functionalized membranes are then incubated with protein extract and specific targets are identified via quantitative affinity purification and mass spectrometry. CISCM reliably identifies known targets of natural products in less than three hours of analysis time per compound. In summary, we show that combining undirected photoimmobilization of compounds on cellulose with quantitative interaction proteomics provides an efficient means to identify the targets of natural products.
PXD017919	35867072	Screening anlotinib responders via blood-based proteomics in non-small cell lung cancer. 	Differential proteomics analysis on plasma from anlotinib-treated advanced non-small cell lung cancer patients	Anlotinib, Biomarker, Non-small cell lung cancer, liquid biopsy	Anlotinib has been demonstrated to be effective in advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients. The response stratification of anlotinib remains unclear. In this study, plasma samples from 28 anlotinib-treated NSCLC patients (discovery cohort: 14 responders and 14 non-responders) were subjected to proteomic analysis, and plasma samples from 35 anlotinib-treated NSCLC patients (validation cohort) were subjected to validation analysis. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis was performed on samples with different time points, namely baseline (BL), best response (BR), and progression disease (PD). Bioinformatics analysis was performed to screen for the underlying differential proteins. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay was performed to detect plasma ARHGDIB, FN1, CDH1, and KNG1 levels respectively. The Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was used for biomarker-based responsive stratification. Our results indicated that differential proteins between responders and non-responders showed that proteomic technology potentially contributes to biomarker screening in plasma samples at BL. Furthermore, our results suggested that the detection of plasma ARHGDIB, FN1, CDH1, and KNG1 levels have potential predictive value for anlotinib response both in the discovery cohort and validation cohort. Collectively, this study offers novel insights into the value of plasma biomarker screening via proteomic examination and suggests that plasma ARHGDIB, FN1, CDH1, and KNG1 levels could be used as biomarkers for anlotinib stratification in NSCLC patients.
PXD035236	35869257	NUPR1 protects against hyperPARylation-dependent cell death. 	NUPR1 inhibits hyperPARylation-associated cell death	Interactome, NUPR1, Pancreatic cancer	Proteomic, cellular and biochemical analysis of the stress protein NUPR1 reveals that it binds to PARP1 into the nucleus and inhibits PARP1 activity in vitro. Mutations on residues Ala33 or Thr68 of NUPR1 or treatment with its inhibitor ZZW-115 inhibits this effect. PARylation induced by 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) treatment is strongly enhanced by ZZW-115 and associated with a decrease of NAD(+)/NADH ratio and rescued by the PARP inhibitor olaparib. Cell death induced by ZZW-115 treatment of pancreas cancer-derived cells is rescued by olaparib and improved with PARG inhibitor PDD00017273. The mitochondrial catastrophe induced by ZZW-115 treatment or by genetic inactivation of NUPR1 is associated to a hyperPARylation of the mitochondria, disorganization of the mitochondrial network, mitochondrial membrane potential decrease, and with increase of superoxide production, intracellular level of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and cytosolic levels of Ca(2+). These features are rescued by olaparib or NAD(+) precursor nicotinamide mononucleotide in a dose-dependent manner and partially by antioxidants treatments. In conclusion, inactivation of NUPR1 induces a hyperPARylation, which in turn, induces a mitochondrial catastrophe and consequently a cell death through a non-canonical Parthanatos, since apoptosis inducing-factor (AIF) is not translocated out of the mitochondria.
PXD024569	35869434	Proteomics data analysis using multiple statistical approaches identified proteins and metabolic networks associated with sucrose accumulation in sugarcane. 	Identification of specific proteins and metabolic networks associated with sucrose accumulation in sugarcane	Differential expression, Proteins, Sucrose accumulation, Sugar metabolism, Sugarcane	BACKGROUND: Sugarcane is the most important sugar crop, contributing > 80% of global sugar production. High sucrose content is a key target of sugarcane breeding, yet sucrose improvement in sugarcane remains extremely slow for decades. Molecular breeding has the potential to break through the genetic bottleneck of sucrose improvement. Dissecting the molecular mechanism(s) and identifying the key genetic elements controlling sucrose accumulation will accelerate sucrose improvement by molecular breeding. In our previous work, a proteomics dataset based on 12 independent samples from high- and low-sugar genotypes treated with ethephon or water was established. However, in that study, employing conventional analysis, only 25 proteins involved in sugar metabolism were identified . RESULTS: In this work, the proteomics dataset used in our previous study was reanalyzed by three different statistical approaches, which include a logistic marginal regression, a penalized multiple logistic regression named Elastic net, as well as a Bayesian multiple logistic regression method named Stochastic search variable selection (SSVS) to identify more sugar metabolism-associated proteins. A total of 507 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were identified from this dataset, with 5 of them were validated by western blot. Among the DAPs, 49 proteins were found to participate in sugar metabolism-related processes including photosynthesis, carbon fixation as well as carbon, amino sugar, nucleotide sugar, starch and sucrose metabolism. Based on our studies, a putative network of key proteins regulating sucrose accumulation in sugarcane is proposed, with glucose-6-phosphate isomerase, 2-phospho-D-glycerate hydrolyase, malate dehydrogenase and phospho-glycerate kinase, as hub proteins. CONCLUSIONS: The sugar metabolism-related proteins identified in this work are potential candidates for sucrose improvement by molecular breeding. Further, this work provides an alternative solution for omics data processing.
PXD028884	35872306	The CARM1 transcriptome and arginine methylproteome mediate skeletal muscle integrative biology. 	Mouse Muscle Quadricep Methylation CARM1 KO	ADMA, CARM1, Immunoaffinity, LCMS, Methylation, PRMT4, SDMA, arginine, muscle	OBJECTIVE: Coactivator-associated arginine methyltransferase 1 (CARM1) catalyzes the methylation of arginine residues on target proteins to regulate critical processes in health and disease. A mechanistic understanding of the role(s) of CARM1 in skeletal muscle biology is only gradually emerging. The purpose of this study was to elucidate the function of CARM1 in regulating the maintenance and plasticity of skeletal muscle. METHODS: We used transcriptomic, methylproteomic, molecular, functional, and integrative physiological approaches to determine the specific impact of CARM1 in muscle homeostasis. RESULTS: Our data defines the occurrence of arginine methylation in skeletal muscle and demonstrates that this mark occurs on par with phosphorylation and ubiquitination. CARM1 skeletal muscle-specific knockout (mKO) mice displayed altered transcriptomic and arginine methylproteomic signatures with molecular and functional outcomes confirming remodeled skeletal muscle contractile and neuromuscular junction characteristics, which presaged decreased exercise tolerance. Moreover, CARM1 regulates AMPK-PGC-1alpha signalling during acute conditions of activity-induced muscle plasticity. CONCLUSIONS: This study uncovers the broad impact of CARM1 in the maintenance and remodelling of skeletal muscle biology.
PXD036154	35872399	Regulation of hyperoxia-induced neonatal lung injury via post-translational cysteine redox modifications. 	Regulation of hyperoxia-induced neonatal lung injury via posttranslational cysteine redox modifications	S-glutathionylation, SCNN1B, hyperoxia, lung, redox proteomics, thiol oxidation	Preterm infants and patients with lung disease often have excess fluid in the lungs and are frequently treated with oxygen, however long-term exposure to hyperoxia results in irreversible lung injury. Although the adverse effects of hyperoxia are mediated by reactive oxygen species, the full extent of the impact of hyperoxia on redox-dependent regulation in the lung is unclear. In this study, neonatal mice overexpressing the beta-subunit of the epithelial sodium channel (beta-ENaC) encoded by Scnn1b and their wild type (WT; C57Bl6) littermates were utilized to study the pathogenesis of high fraction inspired oxygen (FiO2)-induced lung injury. Results showed that O2-induced lung injury in transgenic Scnn1b mice is attenuated following chronic O2 exposure. To test the hypothesis that reversible cysteine-redox-modifications of proteins play an important role in O2-induced lung injury, we performed proteome-wide profiling of protein S-glutathionylation (SSG) in both WT and Scnn1b overexpressing mice maintained at 21% O2 (normoxia) or FiO2 85% (hyperoxia) from birth to 11-15 days postnatal. Over 7700 unique Cys sites with SSG modifications were identified and quantified, covering more than 3000 proteins in the lung. In both mouse models, hyperoxia resulted in a significant alteration of the SSG levels of Cys sites belonging to a diverse range of proteins. In addition, substantial SSG changes were observed in the Scnn1b overexpressing mice exposed to hyperoxia, suggesting that ENaC plays a critically important role in cellular regulation. Hyperoxia-induced SSG changes were further supported by the results observed for thiol total oxidation, the overall level of reversible oxidation on protein cysteine residues. Differential analyses reveal that Scnn1b overexpression may protect against hyperoxia-induced lung injury via modulation of specific processes such as cell adhesion, blood coagulation, and proteolysis. This study provides a landscape view of protein oxidation in the lung and highlights the importance of redox regulation in O2-induced lung injury.
PXD030531	35872882	Association Between Plasma Fibulin-1 and Brachial-Ankle Pulse Wave Velocity in Arterial Stiffness. 	Human Plasma Proteome by Isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantitation Based Quantitative Proteomics Technique	Biomarker, Human plasma protein, Pulse wave velocity, Vascular aging	Arterial stiffness forms the basis of cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and is also an independent predictor of CVD risk. Early detection and intervention of arterial stiffness are important for improving the global burden of CVD. Pulse wave velocity (PWV) is the gold standard for assessing arterial stiffness and the molecular mechanism of arterial stiffness remains to be studied. Extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling is one of the major mechanisms of arterial stiffness. Partial quantitative changes of ECM proteins can be detected in plasma. Therefore, we examined the hypothesis that a discovery proteomic comparison of plasma proteins between high arterial stiffness (baPWV >= 1,400 cm/s) and normal arterial stiffness (baPWV < 1,400 cm/s) populations might identify relevant changed ECM proteins for arterial stiffness. Plasma samples were randomly selected from normal arterial stiffness (n = 6) and high arterial stiffness (n = 6) people. Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) based quantitative proteomics technique was performed to find a total of 169 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Nine ECM proteins were included in all DEPs and were all up-regulated proteins. Fibulin-1 had the highest statistically fold-change (FC = 3.7, p < 0.0001) in the high arterial stiffness population compared with the control group during the nine ECM proteins. The expression of plasma fibulin-1 in normal arterial stiffness (n = 112) and high arterial stiffness (n = 72) populations was confirmed through enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Similarly, ELISA results showed that plasma concentrations of fibulin-1 in the high arterial stiffness group were higher than those in the normal arterial stiffness group (12.69 +/- 0.89 vs. 9.84 +/- 0.71 mug/ml, p < 0.05). Univariate analysis of fibulin-1 with brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) indicated that fibulin-1 was positively correlated with baPWV in all participants (r = 0.32, p < 0.01) and a stronger positive correlation between baPWV and fibulin-1 in high arterial stiffness group (r = 0.64, p < 0.0001) was found. Multiple regression analysis of factors affecting baPWV showed that fibulin-1 was also a significant determinant of the increased ba-PWV (R 2 = 0.635, p = 0.001). Partial correlation analysis showed that baPWV increased with the growth of plasma fibulin-1(r = 0.267, p < 0.001). In conclusion, our results demonstrated that fibulin-1 is positively correlated with ba-PWV and an independent risk factor for arterial stiffness.
PXD033319	35873412	Bioinformatic Prediction and Characterization of Proteins in Porphyra dentata by Shotgun Proteomics. 	Bioinformatic prediction and characterization of proteins in Porphyra dentata by shotgun proteomics	Porphyra dentata, bioactive peptides, bioinformatic	Porphyra dentata is an edible red seaweed with high nutritional value. It is widely cultivated and consumed in East Asia and has vast economic benefits. Studies have found that P. dentata is rich in bioactive substances and is a potential natural resource. In this study, label-free shotgun proteomics was first applied to identify and characterize different harvest proteins in P. dentata. A total of 13,046 different peptides were identified and 419 co-expression target proteins were characterized. Bioinformatics was used to study protein characteristics, functional expression, and interaction of two important functional annotations, amino acid, and carbohydrate metabolism. Potential bioactive peptides, protein structure, and potential ligand conformations were predicted, and the results suggest that bioactive peptides may be utilized as high-quality active fermentation substances and potential targets for drug production. Our research integrated the global protein database, the first time bioinformatic analysis of the P. dentata proteome during different harvest periods, improves the information database construction and provides a framework for future research based on a comprehensive understanding.
PXD033563	35874208	Validation of Serotransferrin in the Serum as Candidate Biomarkers for the Diagnosis of Pulmonary Tuberculosis by Label-Free LC/MS. 	Validation of Serotransferrin in the Serum as Candidate Biomarkers for the Diagnose of Pulmonary Tuberculosis by Label-free LC/MS	Pulmonary tuberculosis, TRF, diagnostic biomarkers, label-free LC/MS, neutrophils	This study aimed to identify secreted protein biomarkers in serum from the label-free LC/MS proteomics of neutrophils in pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) patients for the diagnosis biomarkers of TB label-free LC/MS. The proteomic profiles of neutrophils from 15 active TB patients and 15 healthy controls (HCs) were analyzed using label-free LC/MS. We identified 358 differentially expressed proteins preliminarily, including 279 up-regulated proteins and 79 down-regulated proteins. Thirty-eight differentially expressed secreted proteins involved in the progress of platelet degranulation between TB patients and HCs were focused. Of these, serotransferrin (TRF), alpha-2-macroglobulin (AMG), alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT), alpha-1-acid glycoprotein 1 (AAG), alpha-1-acid glycoprotein 2 (AGP2), and alpha-1B-glycoprotein (A1BG) were selected for further verification in the serum of additional 134 TB patients and 138 HCs by nephelometry and ELISA in the training set. Statistically significant differences of TRF (P < 0.0001), AAT (P < 0.0001), AAG (P < 0.0001), AGP2 (P < 0.0001), and A1BG (P = 0.0003) were observed. The serum concentration of TRF was down-regulated in TB patients compared with healthy controls, which was coincident with the proteomics results. An additional validation of TRF was performed in an independent cohort of patients with active TB (n = 46), patients with lung cancer (n = 37), 20 HCs, and patients with pneumonia (n = 35) in the test set by nephelometry. The serum expression levels of TRF in the TB patients showed lower levels compared with those in patients with pneumonia (P = 0.0125), lung cancer (P = 0.0005), HCs (P < 0.0001), and the non-TB controls (P < 0.0001). Furthermore, the AUC value of TRF was 0.647 with 90.22% sensitivity and 42.86% specificity in discriminating the TB group from the pneumonia group, 0.702 with 93.48% sensitivity and 47.16% specificity in discriminating the TB group from the lung cancer group, 0.894 with 91.30% sensitivity and 71.62% specificity in discriminating the TB group from all HCs, and 0.792 with 91.30% sensitivity and 58.90% specificity in discriminating the TB group from the non-TB controls. This study obtained the proteomic profiles of neutrophils in the TB patients and HCs, which contribute to a better understanding of the pathogenesis molecules existing in the neutrophils of pulmonary tuberculosis and provide candidate biomarkers for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis.
PXD031772	35874475	Protocol for establishing a protein-protein interaction network using tandem affinity purification followed by mass spectrometry in mammalian cells. 	Enrichment of NICD4 interacting proteins by three different methods.	FLAG tag AP, NICD4, SFB-TAP, TurboID.	Identification of protein interactors is fundamental to understanding their functions. Here, we describe a modified protocol for tandem affinity purification coupled with mass spectrometry (TAP/MS), which includes two-step purification. We detail the S-, 2xFLAG-, and Streptavidin-Binding Peptide (SBP)- tandem tags (SFB-tag) system for protein purification. This protocol can be used to identify protein interactors and establish a high-confidence protein-protein interaction network based on computational models. This is particularly useful for identifying bona fide interacting proteins for subsequent functional studies. For complete details on the use and execution of this protocol, please refer to Bian et al. (2021).
PXD034613	35875664	Effect of Selenium Treatment on Central Insulin Sensitivity: A Proteomic Analysis in beta-Amyloid Precursor Protein/Presenilin-1 Transgenic Mice. 	Effect of selenium treatment on central insulin sensitivity: a proteomic analysis in APP/PS1 transgenic mice	Alzheimer's disease (AD), Insulin sensitivity, Selenium	Prior studies have demonstrated a close association between brain insulin resistance and Alzheimer's disease (AD), while selenium supplementation was shown to improve insulin homeostasis in AD patients and to exert neuroprotective effects in a mouse model of AD. However, the mechanisms underlying the neuroprotective actions of selenium remain incompletely understood. In this study, we performed a label-free liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) quantitative proteomics approach to analyze differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex of Abeta precursor protein (APP)/presenilin-1 (PS1) mice following 2 months of treatment with sodium selenate. A total of 319 DEPs (205 upregulated and 114 downregulated proteins) were detected after selenium treatment. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that the DEPs were mainly enriched in processes affecting axon development, neuron differentiation, tau protein binding, and insulin/insulin-like growth factor type 1 (IGF1)-related pathways. These results demonstrate that a number of insulin/IGF1 signaling pathway-associated proteins are differentially expressed in ways that are consistent with reduced central insulin resistance, suggesting that selenium has therapeutic value in the treatment of neurodegenerative and metabolic diseases such as AD and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
PXD033129	35876248	Enhancement of Proteome Coverage by Ion Mobility Fractionation Coupled to PASEF on a TIMS-QTOF Instrument. 	Ion mobility fractionation coupled to PASEF for enhanced proteome coverage	DDA, DIA, PASEF, TIMS fractionation, deep coverage, fractionation, ion mobility, optimized, segmented, timsTOF pro	Trapped ion-mobility spectrometry (TIMS) was used to fractionate ions in the gas phase based on their ion mobility (V s/cm(2)), followed by parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation (PASEF) using a quadrupole time-of-flight instrument to determine the effect on the depth of proteome coverage. TIMS fractionation (up to four gas-phase fractions) coupled to data-dependent acquisition (DDA)-PASEF resulted in the detection of ~7000 proteins and over 70,000 peptides overall from 200 ng of human (HeLa) cell lysate per injection using a commercial 25 cm ultra high performance liquid chromatography (UHPLC) column with a 90 min gradient. This result corresponded to ~19 and 30% increases in protein and peptide identifications, respectively, when compared to a default, single-range TIMS DDA-PASEF analysis. Quantitation precision was not affected by TIMS fractionation as demonstrated by the average and median coefficient of variation values that were less than 4% upon label-free quantitation of technical replicates. TIMS fractionation was utilized to generate a DDA-based spectral library for downstream data-independent acquisition (DIA) analysis of lower sample input using a shorter LC gradient. The TIMS-fractionated library, consisting of over 7600 proteins and 82,000 peptides, enabled the identification of ~4000 and 6600 proteins from 10 and 200 ng of human (HeLa) cell lysate input, respectively, with a 20 min gradient, single-shot DIA analysis. Data are available in ProteomeXchange: identifier PXD033129.
PXD026330	35876747	Evaluation of Protein Extraction Methods for Metaproteomic Analyses of Root-Associated Microbes. 	Optimization of protein extraction methods for root-associated microbes in Arabidopsis	metaproteome, metaproteomics, microbiome, plant microbiota, plant-microbe interactions, protein extraction, roots	Metaproteomics is a powerful tool for the characterization of metabolism, physiology, and functional interactions in microbial communities, including plant-associated microbiota. However, the metaproteomic methods that have been used to study plant-associated microbiota are very laborious and require large amounts of plant tissue, hindering wider application of these methods. We optimized and evaluated different protein extraction methods for metaproteomics of plant-associated microbiota in two different plant species (Arabidopsis and maize). Our main goal was to identify a method that would work with low amounts of input material (40 to 70 mg) and that would maximize the number of identified microbial proteins. We tested eight protocols, each comprising a different combination of physical lysis method, extraction buffer, and cell-enrichment method on roots from plants grown with synthetic microbial communities. We assessed the performance of the extraction protocols by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry-based metaproteomics and found that the optimal extraction method differed between the two species. For Arabidopsis roots, protein extraction by beating whole roots with small beads provided the greatest number of identified microbial proteins and improved the identification of proteins from gram-positive bacteria. For maize, vortexing root pieces in the presence of large glass beads yielded the greatest number of microbial proteins identified. Based on these data, we recommend the use of these two methods for metaproteomics with Arabidopsis and maize. Furthermore, detailed descriptions of the eight tested protocols will enable future optimization of protein extraction for metaproteomics in other dicot and monocot plants. [Formula: see text] Copyright (c) 2022 The Author(s). This is an open access article distributed under the CC BY 4.0 International license.
PXD036543	35879160	Reduction of multiple reaction monitoring protein target list using correlation analysisa. 	Reduction of MRM protein target list using correlation analysis	MFGM, MRM, correlation analysis, dairy, quantitative proteomics	High mass resolution mass spectrometry provides hundreds to thousands of protein identifications per sample, and quantification is typically performed using label-free quantification. However, the gold standard of quantitative proteomics is multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) using triple quadrupole mass spectrometers and stable isotope reference peptides. This raises the question how to reduce a large data set to a small one without losing essential information. Here we present the reduction of such a data set using correlation analysis of bovine dairy ingredients and derived products. We were able to explain the variance in the proteomics data set using only 9 proteins across all major dairy protein classes: caseins, whey, and milk fat globule membrane proteins. We term this method Trinity-MRM. The reproducibility of the protein extraction and Trinity-MRM methods was shown to be below 5% in independent experiments (multi-day single-user and single-day multi-user) using double cream. Further application of this reductionist approach might include screening of large sample cohorts for biologically interesting samples before analysis by high-resolution mass spectrometry or other omics methodologies.
PXD035471	35879274	Enhanced inflammation and suppressed adaptive immunity in COVID-19 with prolonged RNA shedding. 	Temporal proteomics characterization of COVID-19 patient sera	COVID-19, sera proteomics profiling, time series proteomics	Little is known regarding why a subset of COVID-19 patients exhibited prolonged positivity of SARS-CoV-2 infection. Here, we found that patients with long viral RNA course (LC) exhibited prolonged high-level IgG antibodies and higher regulatory T (Treg) cell counts compared to those with short viral RNA course (SC) in terms of viral load. Longitudinal proteomics and metabolomics analyses of the patient sera uncovered that prolonged viral RNA shedding was associated with inhibition of the liver X receptor/retinoid X receptor (LXR/RXR) pathway, substantial suppression of diverse metabolites, activation of the complement system, suppressed cell migration, and enhanced viral replication. Furthermore, a ten-molecule learning model was established which could potentially predict viral RNA shedding period. In summary, this study uncovered enhanced inflammation and suppressed adaptive immunity in COVID-19 patients with prolonged viral RNA shedding, and proposed a multi-omic classifier for viral RNA shedding prediction.
PXD035131	35879366	Therapeutic targeting of ATR in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma. 	Therapeutic targeting of ATR in alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma	phosphoproteomics	Despite advances in multi-modal treatment approaches, clinical outcomes of patients suffering from PAX3-FOXO1 fusion oncogene-expressing alveolar rhabdomyosarcoma (ARMS) remain dismal. Here we show that PAX3-FOXO1-expressing ARMS cells are sensitive to pharmacological ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3 related protein (ATR) inhibition. Expression of PAX3-FOXO1 in muscle progenitor cells is not only sufficient to increase sensitivity to ATR inhibition, but PAX3-FOXO1-expressing rhabdomyosarcoma cells also exhibit increased sensitivity to structurally diverse inhibitors of ATR. Mechanistically, ATR inhibition leads to replication stress exacerbation, decreased BRCA1 phosphorylation and reduced homologous recombination-mediated DNA repair pathway activity. Consequently, ATR inhibitor treatment increases sensitivity of ARMS cells to PARP1 inhibition in vitro, and combined treatment with ATR and PARP1 inhibitors induces complete regression of primary patient-derived ARMS xenografts in vivo. Lastly, a genome-wide CRISPR activation screen (CRISPRa) in combination with transcriptional analyses of ATR inhibitor resistant ARMS cells identifies the RAS-MAPK pathway and its targets, the FOS gene family, as inducers of resistance to ATR inhibition. Our findings provide a rationale for upcoming biomarker-driven clinical trials of ATR inhibitors in patients suffering from ARMS.
PXD030205	35879419	Proteasome-dependent truncation of the negative heterochromatin regulator Epe1 mediates antifungal resistance. 	Proteasome-dependent truncation of the negative heterochromatin regulator Epe1 mediates antifungal resistance.	Anti-fungal resistance, Epe1, Fission yeast, H3K9-methylation, Heterochromatin, Shotgun Proteomics., proteasome	Epe1 histone demethylase restricts H3K9-methylation-dependent heterochromatin, preventing it from spreading over, and silencing, gene-containing regions in fission yeast. External stress induces an adaptive response allowing heterochromatin island formation that confers resistance on surviving wild-type lineages. Here we investigate the mechanism by which Epe1 is regulated in response to stress. Exposure to caffeine or antifungals results in Epe1 ubiquitylation and proteasome-dependent removal of the N-terminal 150 residues from Epe1, generating truncated Epe1 (tEpe1) which accumulates in the cytoplasm. Constitutive tEpe1 expression increases H3K9 methylation over several chromosomal regions, reducing expression of underlying genes and enhancing resistance. Reciprocally, constitutive non-cleavable Epe1 expression decreases resistance. tEpe1-mediated resistance requires a functional JmjC demethylase domain. Moreover, caffeine-induced Epe1-to-tEpe1 cleavage is dependent on an intact cell integrity MAP kinase stress signaling pathway, mutations in which alter resistance. Thus, environmental changes elicit a mechanism that curtails the function of this key epigenetic modifier, allowing heterochromatin to reprogram gene expression, thereby bestowing resistance to some cells within a population. H3K9me-heterochromatin components are conserved in human and crop-plant fungal pathogens for which a limited number of antifungals exist. Our findings reveal how transient heterochromatin-dependent antifungal resistant epimutations develop and thus inform on how they might be countered.
PXD021297	35879945	N-glycoproteomic profiling revealing novel coronavirus therapeutic targets potentially involved in Cepharanthine's intervention. 	N-glycoproteomic profiling reveals new therapeutic targets against coronavirus infestation which may be involved in Cepharanthine's intervention	Cellular model, N-Glycoproteomicï¼›Cepharanthineï¼›SARS-CoV-2ï¼›GX_P2V, Therapeutic target	The Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) has posed a serious threat to global health and the world economy. Antiviral therapies targeting coronavirus are urgently required. The Cepharanthine (CEP) is a traditional Chinese herbal extract. Our previous research revealed that CEP has a very potent anti-coronavirus effect, but its mechanism of action was not fully understood. To investigate the effect of novel coronavirus on protein glycosylation in infected cells and to further investigate the mechanism of action of CEP against coronavirus, a cellular model using coronavirus GX_P2V infection of Vero E6 cells was established. The effect of coronavirus GX_P2V on host cell protein glycosylation was investigated by N-glycoproteomic analysis, and the antagonistic effect of CEP on the abnormal protein glycosylation caused by coronavirus was analyzed. The results showed that GX_P2V could cause abnormal changes in protein glycosylation levels in host cells, while CEP could partially antagonize the abnormal protein glycosylation caused by GX_P2V. In addition, we also found that CEP could regulate the glycosylation level of coronavirus S protein. In conclusion, this article provides important ideas about the infection mechanism of novel coronaviruses, providing evidence for CEP as a promising therapeutic option for coronavirus infection.
PXD033783	35880111	Bridging Size and Charge Effects of Mesoporous Silica Nanoparticles for Crossing the Blood-Brain Barrier. 	Mechanism of protein corona and surface modification of MSNs affecting the tissue distribution	MSN, murine serun proteins, protein corona	The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a highly selective cellular barrier that tightly controls the microenvironment of the central nervous system to restrict the passage of substances, which is a primary challenge in delivering therapeutic drugs to treat brain diseases. This study aimed to develop simple surface modifications of mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSNs) without external stimuli or receptor protein conjugation, which exhibited a critical surface charge and size allowing them to cross the BBB. A series of MSNs with various charges and two different sizes of 50 and 200 nm were synthesized, which showed a uniform mesoporous structure with various surface zeta potentials ranging from +42.3 to -51.6 mV. Confocal microscopic results showed that 50 nm of strongly negatively charged N4-RMSN50@PEG/THPMP (~-40 mV) could be significantly observed outside blood vessels of the brain in Tg(zfli1:EGFP) transgenic zebrafish embryos superior to the other negatively charged MSNs. However, very few positively charged MSNs were found in the brain, indicating that negatively charged MSNs could successfully penetrate the BBB. The data were confirmed by high-resolution images of 3D deconvoluted confocal microscopy and two-photon microscopy and zebrafish brain tissue sections. In addition, while increasing the size to 200 nm but maintaining the similar negative charge (~40 mV), MSNs could not be detected in the brain of zebrafish, suggesting that transport across the BBB based on MSNs occurred in charge- and size-dependent manners. No obvious cytotoxicity was observed in the CTX-TNA2 astrocyte cell line and U87-MG glioma cell line treated with MSNs. After doxorubicin (Dox) loading, N4-RMSN50@PEG/THPMP/Dox enabled drug delivery and pH-responsive release. The toxicity assay showed that N4-RMSN50@PEG/THPMP could reduce Dox release, resulting in the increase of the survival rate in zebrafish. Flow cytometry demonstrated N4-RMSN50@PEG/THPMP had few cellular uptakes. Protein corona analysis revealed three transporter proteins, such as afamin, apolipoprotein E, and basigin, could contribute to BBB penetration, validating the possible mechanism of N4-RMSN50@PEG/THPMP crossing the BBB. With this simple approach, MSNs with critical negative charge and size could overcome the BBB-limiting characteristics of therapeutic drug molecules; furthermore, their use may also cause drug sustained-release in the brain, decreasing peripheral toxicity.
PXD030450	35880733	Comparative Assessment of Quantification Methods for Tumor Tissue Phosphoproteomics. 	Comparative assessment of quantification methods for tumor tissue phosphoproteomics	ovarian cancer, phosphoproteomics, quantification, tissue	With increasing sensitivity and accuracy in mass spectrometry, the tumor phosphoproteome is getting into reach. However, the selection of quantitation techniques best-suited to the biomedical question and diagnostic requirements remains a trial and error decision as no study has directly compared their performance for tumor tissue phosphoproteomics. We compared label-free quantification (LFQ), spike-in-SILAC (stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture), and tandem mass tag (TMT) isobaric tandem mass tags technology for quantitative phosphosite profiling in tumor tissue. Compared to the classic SILAC method, spike-in-SILAC is not limited to cell culture analysis, making it suitable for quantitative analysis of tumor tissue samples. TMT offered the lowest accuracy and the highest precision and robustness toward different phosphosite abundances and matrices. Spike-in-SILAC offered the best compromise between these features but suffered from a low phosphosite coverage. LFQ offered the lowest precision but the highest number of identifications. Both spike-in-SILAC and LFQ presented susceptibility to matrix effects. Match between run (MBR)-based analysis enhanced the phosphosite coverage across technical replicates in LFQ and spike-in-SILAC but further reduced the precision and robustness of quantification. The choice of quantitative methodology is critical for both study design such as sample size in sample groups and quantified phosphosites and comparison of published cancer phosphoproteomes. Using ovarian cancer tissue as an example, our study builds a resource for the design and analysis of quantitative phosphoproteomic studies in cancer research and diagnostics.
PXD034013	35883652	RELA.8-Oxoguanine DNA Glycosylase1 Is an Epigenetic Regulatory Complex Coordinating the Hexosamine Biosynthetic Pathway in RSV Infection. 	The role of RelA in RSV-mediated N-glycosylation	Hexosamine biosynthetic pathway, RSV, epigenetic regulation, innate immunity	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), or human orthopneumovirus, is a negative-sense RNA virus that is the causative agent of severe lower respiratory tract infections in children and is associated with exacerbations of adult lung disease. The mechanisms how severe and/or repetitive virus infections cause declines in pulmonary capacity are not fully understood. We have recently discovered that viral replication triggers epithelial plasticity and metabolic reprogramming involving the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway (HBP). In this study, we examine the relationship between viral induced innate inflammation and the activation of hexosamine biosynthesis in small airway epithelial cells. We observe that RSV induces ~2-fold accumulation of intracellular UDP-GlcNAc, the end-product of the HBP and the obligate substrate of N glycosylation. Using two different silencing approaches, we observe that RSV replication activates the HBP pathway in a manner dependent on the RELA proto-oncogene (65 kDa subunit). To better understand the effect of RSV on the cellular N glycoproteome, and its RELA dependence, we conduct affinity enriched LC-MS profiling in wild-type and RELA-silenced cells. We find that RSV induces the accumulation of 171 N glycosylated peptides in a RELA-dependent manner; these proteins are functionally enriched in integrins and basal lamina formation. To elaborate this mechanism of HBP expression, we demonstrate that RSV infection coordinately induces the HBP pathway enzymes in a manner requiring RELA; these genes include Glutamine-Fructose-6-Phosphate Transaminase 1 (GFPT)-1/2, Glucosamine-Phosphate N-Acetyltransferase (GNPNAT)-1, phosphoglucomutase (PGM)-3 and UDP-N-Acetylglucosamine Pyrophosphorylase (UAP)-1. Using small-molecule inhibitor(s) of 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase1 (OGG1), we observe that OGG1 is also required for the expression of HBP pathway. In proximity ligation assays, RSV induces the formation of a nuclear and mitochondrial RELA.OGG1 complex. In co-immunoprecipitaton (IP) experiments, we discover that RSV induces Ser 536-phosphorylated RELA to complex with OGG1. Chromatin IP experiments demonstrate a major role of OGG1 in supporting the recruitment of RELA and phosphorylated RNA Pol II to the HBP pathway genes. We conclude that the RELA.OGG1 complex is an epigenetic regulator mediating metabolic reprogramming and N glycoprotein modifications of integrins in response to RSV. These findings have implications for viral-induced adaptive epithelial responses.
PXD033818	35884095	Acetylome and Succinylome Profiling of Edwardsiella tarda Reveals Key Roles of Both Lysine Acylations in Bacterial Antibiotic Resistance. 	Edwardsiella tarda strain EIB 202  lysine acetylation and succinylation	Edwardsiella tarda, acetylome, antibiotics resistance, succinylome	The antibiotic resistance of Edwardsiella tarda is becoming increasingly prevalent, and thus novel antimicrobial strategies are being sought. Lysine acylation has been demonstrated to play an important role in bacterial physiological functions, while its role in bacterial antibiotic resistance remains largely unclear. In this study, we investigated the lysine acetylation and succinylation profiles of E. tarda strain EIB202 using affinity antibody purification combined with LC-MS/MS. A total of 1511 lysine-acetylation sites were identified on 589 proteins, and 2346 lysine-succinylation sites were further identified on 692 proteins of this pathogen. Further bioinformatic analysis showed that both post-translational modifications (PTMs) were enriched in the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, pyruvate metabolism, biosynthesis, and carbon metabolism. In addition, 948 peptides of 437 proteins had overlapping associations with multiple metabolic pathways. Moreover, both acetylation and succinylation were found in many antimicrobial resistance (AMR) proteins, suggesting their potentially vital roles in antibiotic resistance. In general, our work provides insights into the acetylome and succinylome features responsible for the antibiotic resistance mechanism of E. tarda, and the results may facilitate future investigations into the pathogenesis of this bacterium.
PXD033427	35884827	Stage II of Chronic Kidney Disease-A Tipping Point in Disease Progression? 	Stage II of Chronic Kidney Disease - a Tipping Point?	angiogenesis, apolipoprotein, biomarker, chronic kidney disease, complement, inflammation, lipoprotein metabolism, plasma, tissue regeneration	Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is the progressive loss of renal function. Although advances have been made in understanding the progression of CKD, key molecular events in complex pathophysiological mechanisms that mark each stage of renal failure remain largely unknown. Changes in plasma protein profiles in different disease stages are important for identification of early diagnostic markers and potential therapeutic targets. The goal of this study was to determine the molecular profile of each CKD stage (from 1 to 5), aiming to specifically point out markedly expressed or downregulated proteins. We performed a cross-sectional shotgun-proteomic study of pooled plasma across CKD stages and compared them to healthy controls. After sample pooling and heparin-column purification we analysed proteomes from healthy to CKD stage 1 through 5 participants' plasma by liquid-chromatography/mass-spectrometry. We identified 453 proteins across all study groups. Our results indicate that key events, which may later affect the course of disease progression and the overall pathophysiological background, are most pronounced in CKD stage 2, with an emphasis on inflammation, lipoprotein metabolism, angiogenesis and tissue regeneration. We hypothesize that CKD stage 2 is the tipping point in disease progression and a suitable point in disease course for the development of therapeutic solutions.
PXD034045	35884998	Mapping the Serum Proteome of COVID-19 Patients; Guidance for Severity Assessment. 	Shotgun LC-MS analysis of human serum from COVID-19 patients	COVID-19, LC-MS, serum	Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), whose outbreak in 2019 led to an ongoing pandemic with devastating consequences for the global economy and human health. According to the World Health Organization, COVID-19 has affected more than 481 million people worldwide, with 6 million confirmed deaths. The joint efforts of the scientific community have undoubtedly increased the pace of production of COVID-19 vaccines, but there is still so much uncharted ground to cover regarding the mechanisms of SARS-CoV-2 infection, replication and host response. These issues can be approached by proteomics with unprecedented capacity paving the way for the development of more efficient strategies for patient care. In this study, we present a deep proteome analysis that has been performed on a cohort of 72 COVID-19 patients aiming to identify serum proteins assessing the dynamics of the disease at different age ranges. A panel of 53 proteins that participate in several functions such as acute-phase response and inflammation, blood coagulation, cell adhesion, complement cascade, endocytosis, immune response, oxidative stress and tissue injury, have been correlated with patient severity, suggesting a molecular basis for their clinical stratification. Eighteen protein candidates were further validated by targeted proteomics in an independent cohort of 84 patients including a group of individuals that had satisfactorily resolved SARS-CoV-2 infection. Remarkably, all protein alterations were normalized 100 days after leaving the hospital, which further supports the reliability of the selected proteins as hallmarks of COVID-19 progression and grading. The optimized protein panel may prove its value for optimal severity assessment as well as in the follow up of COVID-19 patients.
PXD031067	35885243	The Fate of IgE Epitopes and Coeliac Toxic Motifs during Simulated Gastrointestinal Digestion of Pizza Base. 	The fate of bioaccessible coeliac toxic motifs and IgE epitopes during simulated gastro-intestinal digestion of pizza base	IgE epitope, Wheat, allergen, allergenicity risk assessment., coeliac toxic motif, gluten, in vitro digestion, mass spectrome-try, soy	Understanding how food processing may modify allergen bioaccessibility and the evolution of immunologically active peptides in the gastrointestinal tract is essential if knowledge-based approaches to reducing the allergenicity of food are to be realised. A soy-enriched wheat-based pizza base was subjected to in vitro oral-gastro-duodenal digestion and resulting digests analysed using a combination of sodium dodecyl sulphate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and mass spectrometry (MS). The digestion profile of pizza base resembled that of bread crust where higher temperatures during baking reduced protein solubility but still resulted in the generation of a complex mixture of peptides. MS profiling showed numerous peptides carrying IgE epitopes, and coeliac toxic motifs were in excess of 20-30 residues long and were only released after either 120 min of gastric digestion or a combination of gastric and duodenal digestion. In silico prediction tools showed an overestimated number of cleavage sites identified experimentally, with low levels of atypical peptic and chymotryptic cleavage sites identified particularly at glutamine residues. These data suggest that such alternative pepsin cleavage sites may play a role in digestion of glutamine-rich cereal foods. They also contribute to efforts to provide benchmarks for mapping in vitro digestion products of novel proteins which form part of the allergenicity risk assessment.
PXD035260	35885397	Simultaneous Mass Spectrometric Detection of Proteins of Ten Oilseed Species in Meat Products. 	Identificatrion of marker peptides for the oilseed species chia, coconut, flaxseed, hemp, pumpkin, rapeseed, sesame, and sunflower	PEAKS DB, marker peptides, oilseed proteins	Food fraud is a common issue in the modern food industry. The undeclared use of foreign proteins in meat products is a major concern in this context. Oilseeds are ideal for this purpose due to their high protein content and since huge amounts of oil meal are obtained as a by-product of oil production. Therefore, a UHPLC-MS/MS method was developed for the simultaneous detection of chia, coconut, flaxseed, hemp, peanut, pumpkin, rapeseed, sesame, soy, and sunflower proteins in meat products. Potential tryptic peptide markers were identified by high-resolution mass spectrometry. The final twenty peptide markers selected, which are specific for one of the ten species targeted, were each measured by multiple reaction monitoring. To the best of our knowledge, twelve new heat-stable marker peptides for chia, coconut, flaxseed, pumpkin, rapeseed, sesame and sunflower have not been reported previously. Emulsion-type sausages with 0.01, 0.25, 0.50, 0.75 and 1.00% protein addition by each oilseed species were produced for matrix calibration. No false-positive results were recorded. In the quantification of the ten oilseed species, 466 of 480 measuring data points of the recovery rate in unknown sausages (0.15 and 0.85% protein addition by each oilseed species) were in the accepted range of 80-120%.
PXD033614	35885974	TTC30A and TTC30B Redundancy Protects IFT Complex B Integrity and Its Pivotal Role in Ciliogenesis. 	TTC30A and TTC30B redundancy protects IFT complex B integrity and its pivotal role in ciliogenesis	IFT, cilia	Intraflagellar transport (IFT) is a microtubule-based system that supports the assembly and maintenance of cilia. The dysfunction of IFT leads to ciliopathies of variable severity. Two of the IFT-B components are the paralogue proteins TTC30A and TTC30B. To investigate whether these proteins constitute redundant functions, CRISPR/Cas9 was used to generate single TTC30A or B and double-knockout hTERT-RPE1 cells. Ciliogenesis assays showed the redundancy of both proteins while the polyglutamylation of cilia was affected in single knockouts. The localization of other IFT components was not affected by the depletion of a single paralogue. A loss of both proteins led to a severe ciliogenesis defect, resulting in no cilia formation, which was rescued by TTC30A or B. The redundancy can be explained by the highly similar interaction patterns of the paralogues; both equally interact with the IFT-B machinery. Our study demonstrates that a loss of one TTC30 paralogue can mostly be compensated by the other, thus preventing severe ciliary defects. However, cells assemble shorter cilia, which are potentially limited in their function, especially because of impaired polyglutamylation. A complete loss of both proteins leads to a deficit in IFT complex B integrity followed by disrupted IFT and subsequently no cilia formation.
PXD023293	35885999	Pilot Study Showing Feasibility of Phosphoproteomic Profiling of Pathway-Level Molecular Alterations in Barrett's Esophagus. 	Global Phospho-Proteomic Profiling of Pathway-Level  Molecular Alterations in Barrett's Esophagus	Biopsy, Disease Signature, Systems Biology	(1) Background: Barrett's esophagus is a major risk factor for esophageal adenocarcinoma. In this pilot study, we employed precision mass spectrometry to map global (phospho)protein perturbations in Barrett's esophagus lesions and adjacent normal tissue to glean insights into disease progression. (2) Methods: Biopsies were collected from two small but independent cohorts. Comparative analyses were performed between Barrett's esophagus samples and adjacent matched (normal) tissues from patients with known pathology, while specimens from healthy patients served as additional controls. (3) Results: We identified and quantified 6810 proteins and 6395 phosphosites in the discovery cohort, revealing hundreds of statistically significant differences in protein abundances and phosphorylation states. We identified a robust proteomic signature that accurately classified the disease status of samples from the independent patient cohorts. Pathway-level analysis of the phosphoproteomic profiles revealed the dysregulation of specific cellular processes, including DNA repair, in Barrett's esophagus relative to paired controls. Comparative analysis with previously published transcriptomic profiles provided independent evidence in support of these preliminary findings. (4) Conclusions: This pilot study establishes the feasibility of using unbiased quantitative phosphoproteomics to identify molecular perturbations associated with disease progression in Barrett's esophagus to define potentially clinically actionable targets warranting further assessment.
PXD034432	35886909	Tracking Prostate Carcinogenesis over Time through Urine Proteome Profiling in an Animal Model: An Exploratory Approach. 	Tracking prostate carcinogenesis over time through urine proteome profiling in an animal model: an exploratory approach	GeLC-MS/MS, aging, cadherin-2, enolase-1, prostate adenocarcinoma, retinol-binding protein 4, urinary proteomics	Prostate cancer (PCa) is one of the most lethal diseases in men, which justifies the search for new diagnostic tools. The aim of the present study was to gain new insights into the progression of prostate carcinogenesis by analyzing the urine proteome. To this end, urine from healthy animals and animals with prostate adenocarcinoma was analyzed at two time points: 27 and 54 weeks. After 54 weeks, the incidence of pre-neoplastic and neoplastic lesions in the PCa animals was 100%. GeLC-MS/MS and subsequent bioinformatics analyses revealed several proteins involved in prostate carcinogenesis. Increased levels of retinol-binding protein 4 and decreased levels of cadherin-2 appear to be characteristic of early stages of the disease, whereas increased levels of enolase-1 and T-kininogen 2 and decreased levels of isocitrate dehydrogenase 2 describe more advanced stages. With increasing age, urinary levels of clusterin and corticosteroid-binding globulin increased and neprilysin levels decreased, all of which appear to play a role in prostate hyperplasia or carcinogenesis. The present exploratory analysis can be considered as a starting point for studies targeting specific human urine proteins for early detection of age-related maladaptive changes in the prostate that may lead to cancer.
PXD034012	35886999	Proteomic Investigation of the Role of Nucleostemin in Nucleophosmin-Mutated OCI-AML 3 Cell Line. 	Proteomics investigation of Nucleostemin role in Nucleo-phosmin mutated OCI-AML 3 cell line	Acute Myeloid Leukemia, Nucleophosmin, Nucleostemin, shotgun proteomics	Nucleostemin (NS; a product of the GNL3 gene) is a nucleolar-nucleoplasm shuttling GTPase whose levels are high in stem cells and rapidly decrease upon differentiation. NS levels are also high in several solid and hematological neoplasms, including acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). While a role in telomere maintenance, response to stress stimuli and favoring DNA repair has been proposed in solid cancers, little or no information is available as to the role of nucleostemin in AML. Here, we investigate this issue via a proteomics approach. We use as a model system the OCI-AML 3 cell line harboring a heterozygous mutation at the NPM1 gene, which is the most frequent driver mutation in AML (approximately 30% of total AML cases). We show that NS is highly expressed in this cell line, and, contrary to what has previously been shown in other cancers, that its presence is dispensable for cell growth and viability. However, proteomics analysis of the OCI-AML 3 cell line before and after nucleostemin (NS) silencing showed several effects on different biological functions, as highlighted by ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA). In particular, we report an effect of down-regulating DNA repair through homologous recombination, and we confirmed a higher DNA damage rate in OCI-AML 3 cells when NS is depleted, which considerably increases upon stress induced by the topoisomerase II inhibitor etoposide. The data used are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD034012.
PXD033886	35887227	Overexpression of McHB7 Transcription Factor from Mesembryanthemum crystallinum Improves Plant Salt Tolerance. 	Overexpression of McHB7 Transcription Factor from Mesembryanthemum crystallinum Improves Plant Salt Tolerance	Salt stress, common ice plant	Mesembryanthemum crystallinum (common ice plant) is one of the facultative halophyte plants, and it serves as a model for investigating the molecular mechanisms underlying its salt stress response and tolerance. Here we cloned one of the homeobox transcription factor (TF) genes, McHB7, from the ice plant, which has 60% similarity with the Arabidopsis AtHB7. Overexpression of the McHB7 in Arabidopsis (OE) showed that the plants had significantly elevated relative water content (RWC), chlorophyll content, superoxide dismutase (SOD), and peroxidase (POD) activities after salt stress treatment. Our proteomic analysis identified 145 proteins to be significantly changed in abundance, and 66 were exclusively increased in the OE plants compared to the wild type (WT). After salt treatment, 979 and 959 metabolites were significantly increased and decreased, respectively, in the OE plants compared to the WT. The results demonstrate that the McHB7 can improve photosynthesis, increase the leaf chlorophyll content, and affect the TCA cycle by regulating metabolites (e.g., pyruvate) and proteins (e.g., citrate synthase). Moreover, McHB7 modulates the expression of stress-related proteins (e.g., superoxide dismutase, dehydroascorbate reductase, and pyrroline-5-carboxylate synthase B) to scavenge reactive oxygen species and enhance plant salt tolerance.
PXD034985	35887356	Proteome-Wide Differential Effects of Peritoneal Dialysis Fluid Properties in an In Vitro Human Endothelial Cell Model. 	Endothelial pathomechanisms in response to in vito exposure to differentz peritoneal dialysis fluids	Human umbilical vein endothelial cells, TMT, dialysis	To replace kidney function, peritoneal dialysis (PD) utilizes hyperosmotic PD fluids with specific physico-chemical properties. Their composition induces progressive damage of the peritoneum, leading to vasculopathies, decline of membrane function, and PD technique failure. Clinically used PD fluids differ in their composition but still remain bioincompatible. We mapped the molecular pathomechanisms in human endothelial cells induced by the different characteristics of widely used PD fluids by proteomics. Of 7894 identified proteins, 3871 were regulated at least by 1 and 49 by all tested PD fluids. The latter subset was enriched for cell junction-associated proteins. The different PD fluids individually perturbed proteins commonly related to cell stress, survival, and immune function pathways. Modeling two major bioincompatibility factors of PD fluids, acidosis, and glucose degradation products (GDPs) revealed distinct effects on endothelial cell function and regulation of cellular stress responses. Proteins and pathways most strongly affected were members of the oxidative stress response. Addition of the antioxidant and cytoprotective additive, alanyl-glutamine (AlaGln), to PD fluids led to upregulation of thioredoxin reductase-1, an antioxidant protein, potentially explaining the cytoprotective effect of AlaGln. In conclusion, we mapped out the molecular response of endothelial cells to PD fluids, and provided new evidence for their specific pathomechanisms, crucial for improvement of PD therapies.
PXD028650	35888016	ITGbeta6 Facilitates Skeletal Muscle Development by Maintaining the Properties and Cytoskeleton Stability of Satellite Cells. 	mouse skeletal muscle nano-HPLC-MS/MS	DIA, nano-HPLC-MS/MS, skeletal muscle	Integrin proteins are important receptors connecting the intracellular skeleton of satellite cells and the extracellular matrix (ECM), playing an important role in the process of skeletal muscle development. In this research, the function of ITGbeta6 in regulating the differentiation of satellite cells was studied. Transcriptome and proteome analysis indicated that Itgbeta6 is a key node connecting ECM-related proteins to the cytoskeleton, and it is necessary for the integrity of the membrane structure and stability of the cytoskeletal system, which are essential for satellite cell adhesion. Functional analysis revealed that the ITGbeta6 protein could affect the myogenic differentiation potential of satellite cells by regulating the expression of PAX7 protein, thus regulating the formation of myotubes. Moreover, ITGbeta6 is involved in muscle development by regulating cell-adhesion-related proteins, such as beta-laminin, and cytoskeletal proteins such as PXN, DMD, and VCL. In conclusion, the effect of ITGbeta6 on satellite cell differentiation mainly occurs before the initiation of differentiation, and it regulates terminal differentiation by affecting satellite cell characteristics, cell adhesion, and the stability of the cytoskeleton system.
PXD033970	35888694	Proteomics and Metabolomics Profiling of Pork Exudate Reveals Meat Spoilage during Storage. 	Proteomics and metabolomics profiling of pork exudate reveals meat spoilage during storage	different temper-atures storage, metabolomics, multivariate analysis, pork exudate, pork quality	Previous studies have evaluated pork quality by omics methods. However, proteomics coupled with metabolomics to investigate pork freshness by using pork exudates has not been reported. This study determined the changes in the profiles of peptides and metabolites in exudates from pork stored at different temperatures (25, 10, 4, and -2 degreesC). Multivariate statistical analysis revealed similar changes in profiles in exudates collected from pork stored at -2 and 4 degreesC, and additional changes following storage at higher temperatures. We identified peptides from 7 proteins and 30 metabolites differing in abundance between fresh and spoiled pork. Significant correlations between pork quality and most of the peptides from these 7 proteins and 30 metabolites were found. The present study provides insight into changes in the peptide and metabolite profiles of exudates from pork during storage at different temperatures, and our analysis suggests that such changes can be used as markers of pork spoilage.
PXD034488	35890485	Quantitative Proteomics of Chromochloris zofingiensis Reveals the Key Proteins Involved in Cell Growth and Bioactive Compound Biosynthesis. 	Quantitative proteomics of Chromochloris zofingiensis reveals key protein involved in cell growth and bioactive compound biosynthesis	Microalgae	Glucose metabolism regulates cell growth and affects astaxanthin accumulation in the green algae Chromochloris zofingiensis. Hub gene functioning in this bioactive compound has been illustrated at the genome, transcriptome and metabolome level, but is rather limited from a proteome aspect. Microalgal cell produce an enhanced biomass (8-fold higher) but decreased lipid and astaxanthin content (~20% less) in the glucose condition compared to the control. Here, we investigate the proteomic response of C. zofingiensis grown with and without glucose using an LC-MS/MS-based Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) approach. The proteomic analysis demonstrated that glucose supplementation triggers the upregulation of 105 proteins and downregulation of 151 proteins. Thus, the carbon and energy flux might flow to cell growth, which increased the associated protein abundance, including DNA polymerase, translation initiation factor, 26S proteasome regulatory subunits, and the marker enzyme of the TCA cycle ribosomal protein. Moreover, the glucose supplement triggered the downregulation of proteins mainly involved in photosynthesis, chloroplasts, valine, leucine and isoleucine biosynthesis, 2-oxocarboxylic acid metabolism, and pantothenate and CoA biosynthesis pathways. This proteomic analysis is likely to provide new insights into algal growth and lipid or astaxanthin accumulation upon glucose supplementation, providing a foundation for further development of C. zofingiensis as oleaginous microalga for bioengineering applications.
PXD033981	35891395	Development of Parallel Reaction Monitoring Mass Spectrometry Assay for the Detection of Human Norovirus Major Capsid Protein. 	Development of parallel reaction monitoring mass spectrometry assay for the detection of human norovirus major capsid protein	Norovirus, Norwalk virus, Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), Stool specimen	Human Norwalk viruses (HuNoVs), the most common etiological agents of acute gastroenteritis, are genetically diverse RNA viruses that frequently cause mass food poisoning internationally. Although nucleic acid detection methods, such as reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), are the gold standard for the diagnosis of norovirus infection, alternative methods are needed for the specific and sensitive viral protein detection for rapid diagnosis and surveillance. In this study, we developed a robust and high-throughput targeted proteomic assay workflow to directly detect the VP1 major capsid protein of HuNoVs. A parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) assay using a high-resolution mass spectrometer was used to detect representative peptides derived from VP1 in six different HuNoV genotypes. An optimized protocol using synthesized heavy isotope-labeled peptides as internal standards was also used to simultaneously genotype and quantify the VP1 protein in human stool specimens. This method is expected to become a new tool for studying the molecular epidemiology of HuNoV and to shed new light on targeted proteomics in clinical practice.
PXD030541	35892334	Integrative Organelle-Based Functional Proteomics: In Silico Prediction of Impaired Functional Annotations in SACS KO Cell Model. 	Integrative organelle-based functional proteomics in ARSACS-focus on bioenergetics and autophagy	ARSACS, KO models, biomarkers, lysosomes, mitochondria, omics, sacsin	Autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay (ARSACS) is an inherited neurodegenerative disease characterized by early-onset spasticity in the lower limbs, axonal-demyelinating sensorimotor peripheral neuropathy, and cerebellar ataxia. Our understanding of ARSACS (genetic basis, protein function, and disease mechanisms) remains partial. The integrative use of organelle-based quantitative proteomics and whole-genome analysis proposed in the present study allowed identifying the affected disease-specific pathways, upstream regulators, and biological functions related to ARSACS, which exemplify a rationale for the development of improved early diagnostic strategies and alternative treatment options in this rare condition that currently lacks a cure. Our integrated results strengthen the evidence for disease-specific defects related to bioenergetics and protein quality control systems and reinforce the role of dysregulated cytoskeletal organization in the pathogenesis of ARSACS.
PXD033646	35892672	Proteomic Assessment of C57BL/6 Hippocampi after Non-Selective Pharmacological Inhibition of Nitric Oxide Synthase Activity: Implications of Seizure-like Neuronal Hyperexcitability Followed by Tauopathy. 	Proteomic assessment of C57BL/6 hippocampi after non-selective pharmacological inhibition of all nitric oxide synthase activity	hippocampus, nitric oxide	Nitric oxide (NO) is a small gaseous signaling molecule responsible for maintaining homeostasis in a myriad of tissues and molecular pathways in neurology and the cardiovasculature. In recent years, there has been increasing interest in the potential interaction between arterial stiffness (AS), an independent cardiovascular risk factor, and neurodegenerative syndromes given increasingly epidemiological study reports. For this reason, we previously investigated the mechanistic convergence between AS and neurodegeneration via the progressive non-selective inhibition of all nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoforms with N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) in C57BL/6 mice. Our previous results showed progressively increased AS in vivo and impaired visuospatial learning and memory in L-NAME-treated C57BL/6 mice. In the current study, we sought to further investigate the progressive molecular signatures in hippocampal tissue via LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis. Our data implicate mitochondrial dysfunction due to progressive L-NAME treatment. Two weeks of L-NAME treatment implicates altered G-protein-coupled-receptor signaling in the nerve synapse and associated presence of seizures and altered emotional behavior. Furthermore, molecular signatures implicate the cerebral presence of seizure-related hyperexcitability after short-term (8 weeks) treatment followed by ribosomal dysfunction and tauopathy after long-term (16 weeks) treatment.
PXD033047	35893618	Dissecting the Chloroplast Proteome of the Potato (Solanum Tuberosum L.) and Its Comparison with the Tuber Amyloplast Proteome. 	Dissecting the chloroplast proteome of potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) and its comparison with the tuber amyloplast proteome	Chloroplast, Leaf, Poatao	The chloroplast, the energy organelle unique to plants and green algae, performs many functions, including photosynthesis and biosynthesis of metabolites. However, as the most critical tuber crop worldwide, the chloroplast proteome of potato (Solanum tuberosum) has not been explored. Here, we use Percoll density gradient centrifugation to isolate intact chloroplasts from leaves of potato cultivar E3 and establish a reference proteome map of potato chloroplast by bottom-up proteomics. A total of 1834 non-redundant proteins were identified in the chloroplast proteome, including 51 proteins encoded by the chloroplast genome. Extensive sequence-based localization prediction revealed over 62% of proteins to be chloroplast resident by at least one algorithm. Sixteen proteins were selected to evaluate the prediction result by transient fluorescence assay, which confirmed that 14 were distributed in distinct internal compartments of the chloroplast. In addition, we identified 136 phosphorylation sites in 61 proteins encoded by chloroplast proteome. Furthermore, we reconstruct the snapshots along starch metabolic pathways in the two different types of plastids by a comparative analysis between chloroplast and previously reported amyloplast proteomes. Altogether, our results establish a comprehensive proteome map with post-translationally modified sites of potato chloroplast, which would provide the theoretical principle for the research of the photosynthesis pathway and starch metabolism.
PXD032110	35895896	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic landscapes of acute myeloid leukemia. 	Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Landscapes of Acute Myeloid Leukemia	AML, Acute Myeloid Leukemia	We have developed a deep-scale proteome and phosphoproteome database from 44 representative acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients from the LAML TCGA dataset and 6 healthy bone marrow-derived controls. After confirming data quality, we orthogonally validated several previously undescribed features of AML revealed by the proteomic data. We identified examples of posttranscriptionally regulated proteins both globally (ie, in all AML samples) and also in patients with recurrent AML driver mutations. For example, samples with IDH1/2 mutations displayed elevated levels of the 2-oxoglutarate-dependent histone demethylases KDM4A/B/C, despite no changes in messenger RNA levels for these genes; we confirmed this finding in vitro. In samples with NPMc mutations, we identified several nuclear importins with posttranscriptionally increased protein abundance and showed that they interact with NPMc but not wild-type NPM1. We identified 2 cell surface proteins (CD180 and MRC1/CD206) expressed on AML blasts of many patients (but not healthy CD34+ stem/progenitor cells) that could represent novel targets for immunologic therapies and confirmed these targets via flow cytometry. Finally, we detected nearly 30 000 phosphosites in these samples; globally, AML samples were associated with the abnormal phosphorylation of specific residues in PTPN11, STAT3, AKT1, and PRKCD. FLT3-TKD samples were associated with increased phosphorylation of activating tyrosines on the cytoplasmic Src-family tyrosine kinases FGR and HCK and related signaling proteins. PML-RARA-initiated AML samples displayed a unique phosphorylation signature, and TP53-mutant samples showed abundant phosphorylation of serine-183 on TP53 itself. This publicly available database will serve as a foundation for further investigations of protein dysregulation in AML pathogenesis.
PXD034181	35896382	P21-Activated Kinase 4 Pak4 Maintains Embryonic Stem Cell Pluripotency via Akt Activation. 	Global proteome comparison between MEF cells and mESC-R1 cells	Mouse cells	Exploiting the pluripotent properties of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) holds great promise for regenerative medicine. Nevertheless, directing ESC differentiation into specialized cell lineages requires intricate control governed by both intrinsic and extrinsic factors along with the actions of specific signaling networks. Here, we reveal the involvement of the p21-activated kinase 4 (Pak4), a serine/threonine kinase, in sustaining murine ESC (mESC) pluripotency. Pak4 is highly expressed in R1 ESC cells compared with embryonic fibroblast cells and its expression is progressively decreased during differentiation. Manipulations using knockdown and overexpression demonstrated a positive relationship between Pak4 expression and the clonogenic potential of mESCs. Moreover, ectopic Pak4 expression increases reprogramming efficiency of Oct4-Klf4-Sox2-Myc-induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) whereas Pak4-knockdown iPSCs were largely incapable of generating teratomas containing mesodermal, ectodermal and endodermal tissues, indicative of a failure in differentiation. We further establish that Pak4 expression in mESCs is transcriptionally driven by the core pluripotency factor Nanog which recognizes specific binding motifs in the Pak4 proximal promoter region. In turn, the increased levels of Pak4 in mESCs fundamentally act as an upstream activator of the Akt pathway. Pak4 directly binds to and phosphorylates Akt at Ser473 with the resulting Akt activation shown to attenuate downstream GSK3beta signaling. Thus, our findings indicate that the Nanog-Pak4-Akt signaling axis is essential for maintaining mESC self-renewal potential with further importance shown during somatic cell reprogramming where Pak4 appears indispensable for multi-lineage specification.
PXD035010	35897723	Low-Dose-Rate Radiation-Induced Secretion of TGF-beta3 Together with an Activator in Small Extracellular Vesicles Modifies Low-Dose Hyper-Radiosensitivity through ALK1 Binding. 	Low dose rate radiation induced secretion of TGF-beta3 together 2 with an activator in small extracellular vesicles modifies low 3 dose hyper-radiosensitivity through ALK1 binding	ADAM, ALK1, ALK5, Adaptive response, Bystander effects, Hyper-radiosensi-27 tive response, Low dose rate, Low-dose radiation, MMP, TGF-beta3	Hyper-radiosensitivity (HRS) is the increased sensitivity to low doses of ionizing radiation observed in most cell lines. We previously demonstrated that HRS is permanently abolished in cells irradiated at a low dose rate (LDR), in a mechanism dependent on transforming growth factor beta3 (TGF-beta3). In this study, we aimed to elucidate the activation and receptor binding of TGF-beta3 in this mechanism. T-47D cells were pretreated with inhibitors of potential receptors and activators of TGF-beta3, along with addition of small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) from LDR primed cells, before their radiosensitivity was assessed by the clonogenic assay. The protein content of sEVs from LDR primed cells was analyzed with mass spectrometry. Our results show that sEVs contain TGF-beta3 regardless of priming status, but only sEVs from LDR primed cells remove HRS in reporter cells. Inhibition of the matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family prevents removal of HRS, suggesting an MMP-dependent activation of TGF-beta3 in the LDR primed cells. We demonstrate a functional interaction between TGF-beta3 and activin receptor like kinase 1 (ALK1) by showing that TGF-beta3 removes HRS through ALK1 binding, independent of ALK5 and TGF-betaRII. These results are an important contribution to a more comprehensive understanding of the mechanism behind TGF-beta3 mediated removal of HRS.
PXD034933	35897773	A Proteomic Platform Unveils the Brain Glycogen Phosphorylase as a Potential Therapeutic Target for Glioblastoma Multiforme. 	A proteomic platform unveils the brain glycogen phosphorylase as a potential metabolic target for glioblastoma multiforme	2, 3-benzodiazepin-4-one, Glioblastoma multiforme, glycogen phosphorylase, target identification	In the last few years, several efforts have been made to identify original strategies against glioblastoma multiforme (GBM): this requires a more detailed investigation of the molecular mechanism of GBM so that novel targets can be identified for new possible therapeutic agents. Here, using a combined biochemical and proteomic approach, we evaluated the ability of a blood-brain barrier-permeable 2,3-benzodiazepin-4-one, called 1g, to interfere with the activity and the expression of brain glycogen phosphorylase (PYGB) on U87MG cell line in parallel with the capability of this compound to inhibit the cell growth and cycle. Thus, our results highlighted PYGB as a potential therapeutic target in GBM prompting 1g as a capable anticancer drug thanks to its ability to negatively modulate the uptake and metabolism of glucose, the so-called "Warburg effect", whose increase is considered a common feature of cancer cells in respect of their normal counterparts.
PXD032993	35898882	The Deubiquitinase USP13 Maintains Cancer Cell Stemness by Promoting FASN Stability in Small Cell Lung Cancer. 	The deubiquitinase USP13 maintains cancer cell stemness by promoting  FASN stability in small cell lung cancer	FASN, SCLC, TVB-2640, USP13, cancer stem cells, lipogenesis, ubiquitylation	USP13 is significantly amplified in over 20% of lung cancer patients and critical for tumor progression. However, the functional role of USP13 in small cell lung cancer (SCLC) remains largely unclear. In this study, we found that the deubiquitinase USP13 is highly expressed in SCLC tumor samples and positively associated with poor prognosis in multiple cohorts. In vitro and in vivo depletion of USP13 inhibited SCLC cancer stem cells (CSCs) properties and tumorigenesis, and this inhibitory effect was rescued by reconstituted expression of wide type (WT) USP13 but not the enzyme-inactive USP13 mutant. Mechanistically, USP13 interacts with fatty acid synthase (FASN) and enhances FASN protein stability. FASN downregulation suppresses USP13-enhanced cell renewal regulator expression, sphere formation ability, and de novo fatty acids biogenesis. Accordingly, we found FASN expression is upregulated in surgical resected SCLC specimens, positively correlated with USP13, and associated with poor prognosis of SCLC patients. More importantly, the small molecule inhibitor of FASN, TVB-2640, significantly inhibits lipogenic phenotype and attenuates self-renewal ability, chemotherapy resistance and USP13-mediated tumorigenesis in SCLC. Thus, our study highlights a critical role of the USP13-FASN-lipogenesis axis in SCLC cancer stemness maintenance and tumor growth, and reveals a potential combination therapy for SCLC patients.
PXD014484	35899551	Global and precise identification of functional miRNA targets in mESCs by integrative analysis. 	Identification of functional miRNA gene interactions in mESC by computational data integration approaches.	data integration, miRNA, ribosome profiling, stem cells, transcriptomics	MicroRNA (miRNA) loaded Argonaute (AGO) complexes regulate gene expression via direct base pairing with their mRNA targets. Previous works suggest that up to 60% of mammalian transcripts might be subject to miRNA-mediated regulation, but it remains largely unknown which fraction of these interactions are functional in a specific cellular context. Here, we integrate transcriptome data from a set of miRNA-depleted mouse embryonic stem cell (mESC) lines with published miRNA interaction predictions and AGO-binding profiles. Using this integrative approach, combined with molecular validation data, we present evidence that < 10% of expressed genes are functionally and directly regulated by miRNAs in mESCs. In addition, analyses of the stem cell-specific miR-290-295 cluster target genes identify TFAP4 as an important transcription factor for early development. The extensive datasets developed in this study will support the development of improved predictive models for miRNA-mRNA functional interactions.
PXD021585	35900198	The giant mimivirus 1.2 Mb genome is elegantly organized into a 30-nm diameter helical protein shield. 	Proteomic analysis of virion and genomic fibre of Mimivirus reunion	Mimivirus reunion, genomic fibre, nanoLC-MS/MS, virion	Mimivirus is the prototype of the Mimiviridae family of giant dsDNA viruses. Little is known about the organization of the 1.2 Mb genome inside the membrane-limited nucleoid filling the ~0.5 microm icosahedral capsids. Cryo-electron microscopy, cryo-electron tomography, and proteomics revealed that it is encased into a ~30-nm diameter helical protein shell surprisingly composed of two GMC-type oxidoreductases, which also form the glycosylated fibrils decorating the capsid. The genome is arranged in 5- or 6-start left-handed super-helices, with each DNA-strand lining the central channel. This luminal channel of the nucleoprotein fiber is wide enough to accommodate oxidative stress proteins and RNA polymerase subunits identified by proteomics. Such elegant supramolecular organization would represent a remarkable evolutionary strategy for packaging and protecting the genome, in a state ready for immediate transcription upon unwinding in the host cytoplasm. The parsimonious use of the same protein in two unrelated substructures of the virion is unexpected for a giant virus with thousand genes at its disposal.
PXD034064	35901418	Total Synthesis and Functional Evaluation of IORs, Sulfonolipid-based Inhibitors of Cell Differentiation in Salpingoeca rosetta. 	Total synthesis of rosette inhibitor IOR allows its functional analysis and evaluation of sulfonolipid-based chemical probes	Salpingoeca rosetta, choanoflagellate, photoaffinity-labeling, sulfonosphingolipids	The choanoflagellate Salpingoeca rosetta is an important model system to study the evolution of multicellularity. In this study we developed a new, modular, and scalable synthesis of sulfonolipid IOR-1A (six steps, 27 % overall yield), which acts as bacterial inhibitor of rosette formation in S. rosetta. The synthesis features a decarboxylative cross-coupling reaction of a sulfonic acid-containing tartaric acid derivative with alkyl zinc reagents. Synthesis of 15 modified IOR-1A derivatives, including fluorescent and photoaffinity-based probes, allowed quantification of IOR-1A, localization studies within S. rosetta cells, and evaluation of structure-activity relations. In a proof of concept study, an inhibitory bifunctional probe was employed in proteomic profiling studies, which allowed to deduce binding partners in bacteria and S. rosetta. These results showcase the power of synthetic chemistry to decipher the biochemical basis of cell differentiation processes within S. rosetta.
PXD028336	35902118	PBAF loss leads to DNA damage-induced inflammatory signaling through defective G2/M checkpoint maintenance. 	PBAF loss leads to DNA damage induced inflammatory signalling through defective G2/M checkpoint maintenance	Cancer, PBMR1, TMT, ms/ms	The PBRM1 subunit of the PBAF (SWI/SNF) chromatin remodeling complex is mutated in ~40% of clear cell renal cancers. PBRM1 loss has been implicated in responses to immunotherapy in renal cancer, but the mechanism is unclear. DNA damage-induced inflammatory signaling is an important factor determining immunotherapy response. This response is kept in check by the G2/M checkpoint, which prevents progression through mitosis with unrepaired damage. We found that in the absence of PBRM1, p53-dependent p21 up-regulation is delayed after DNA damage, leading to defective transcriptional repression by the DREAM complex and premature entry into mitosis. Consequently, DNA damage-induced inflammatory signaling pathways are activated by cytosolic DNA. Notably, p53 is infrequently mutated in renal cancer, so PBRM1 mutational status is critical to G2/M checkpoint maintenance. Moreover, we found that the ability of PBRM1 deficiency to predict response to immunotherapy correlates with expression of the cytosolic DNA-sensing pathway in clinical samples. These findings have implications for therapeutic responses in renal cancer.
PXD034339	35902736	ISX-9 potentiates CaMKIIdelta-mediated BMAL1 activation to enhance circadian amplitude. 	ISX-9 potentiates CaMKIIdelta-mediated BMAL1 activation to enhance circadian amplitude	BMAL1, CaMKIIdelta, ISX-9, circadian	Circadian dysregulation associates with numerous diseases including metabolic dysfunction, sleep disorder, depression and aging. Given that declined circadian amplitude is a trait commonly found with compromised health, interventions that design in precluding circadian amplitude from dampening will aid to mitigate complex, circadian-related diseases. Here we identify a neurogenic small molecule ISX-9 that is able to support persistent and higher amplitude of circadian oscillations. ISX-9 improves diurnal metabolic rhythms in middle-aged mice. Moreover, the ISX-9-treated mice show better sleep homeostasis with increased delta power during the day time and higher locomotive activity in the dark period. ISX-9 augments CaMKIIdelta expression and increases BMAL1 activity via eliciting CaMKIIdelta-mediated phosphorylation on BMAL1 residues S513/S515/S516, accordingly composes a positive feedback effect on enhancing circadian amplitude. CaMKIIdelta-targeting, and the use of ISX-9 may serve as decent choices for treating circadian-related disorders.
PXD012393	35903668	Bie-Jia-Ruan-Mai-Tang, a Chinese Medicine Formula, Inhibits Retinal Neovascularization in Diabetic Mice Through Inducing the Apoptosis of Retinal Vascular Endothelial Cells. 	Proteogenomic characterization analysis of human large cell lung cancer	human large cell lung cancer, labelfree	Proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR) is one of the main complications of diabetes, mainly caused by the aberrant proliferation of retinal vascular endothelial cells and the formation of new blood vessels. Traditional Chinese medicines possess great potential in the prevention and treatment of PDR. Bie-Jia-Ruan-Mai-Tang (BJ), a Chinese medicine formula, has a good therapeutic effect on PDR clinically; however, the mechanism of action involved remains unclear. Therefore, we investigated the effect of BJ on PDR through in vitro and in vivo experiments. A diabetic mouse model with PDR was established by feeding a high-fat-high-glucose diet combined with an intraperitoneal injection of streptozotocin (STZ), while high-glucose-exposed human retinal capillary endothelial cells (HRCECs) were employed to mimic PDR in vitro. The in vivo experiments indicated that BJ inhibited the formation of acellular capillaries, decreased the expression of VEGF, and increased the level of ZO-1 in diabetic mice retina. In vitro experiments showed that high glucose significantly promoted cell viability and proliferation. However, BJ inhibited cell proliferation by cycle arrest in the S phase, thus leading to apoptosis; it also increased the production of ROS, decreased the mitochondrial membrane potential, reduced the ATP production, and also reduced the expressions of p-PI3K, p-AKT, and Bcl-xL, but increased the expressions of Bax and p-NF-kappaB. These results suggest that BJ induces the apoptosis of HRCECs exposed to high glucose through activating the mitochondrial death pathway by decreasing the PI3K/AKT signaling and increasing the NF-kappaB signaling to inhibit the formation of acellular capillaries in the retina, thus impeding the development of PDR.
PXD030431	35904512	Evaluating Peptide Fragment Ion Detection Using Traveling Wave Ion Mobility Spectrometry with Signal-Enhanced MS(E) (SEMS(E)). 	Improving peptide fragment ion detection using travelling wave ion mobility spectrometry with signal enhancement MSE (seMSE)	DDA, DIA, LC-TWIMS-MS/MS, MSE, travelling wave ion mobility spectrometry (TWIMS)	The inherent poor sampling of fragment ions in time-of-flight mass analyzers was recently improved for data-dependent acquisition (DDA) by considering their drift times in traveling wave ion mobility spectrometry (TWIMS). Here, we extend this TWIMS-DDA approach to the data-independent acquisition (DIA) mode MS(E) to improve the signal intensities of fragment ions by providing improved ion beam sampling efficiency, which we termed therefore signal-enhanced MS(E) (SEMS(E)). The theoretical expectation that SEMS(E) improves the number of identified peptides, the number of quantifiable peptides, and the lower limit of quantitation in wideband DIA was evaluated on an electrospray ionisation-ion mobility spectrometry-quadrupole-time-of-flight-MS (ESI-IMS-Q-TOF-MS) (Synapt G2-Si) in comparison to five established TWIMS-DDA and TWIMS-MS(E) methods with respect to the number of peptide identifications, the spectral quality of supporting peptide spectra matches, and (most importantly) fragment ion signal sensitivity. A comparison of the fragment signals clearly indicated that SEMS(E) provides 6.8- to 11.5-fold larger peak areas than established MS(E) techniques. While this clearly shows the advantages of SEMS(E), the inherent limitations of the current software tools do not allow using all benefits in routine analyses. As the simultaneous fragmentation of co-eluting peptides limited peptide identification, DDA and MS(E) data sets were integrated using Skyline.
PXD029924	35906361	KOPI: Kinase inhibitOr Proteome Impact analysis. 	KOPI - Kinase inhibitor proteome impact analysis	CETSA, TMT, phosphorylation, protein expression	Kinase inhibitors often exert on/off-target effects, and efficient data analysis is essential for assessing these effects on the proteome. We developed a workflow for rapidly performing such a proteomic assessment, termed as kinase inhibitor proteome impact analysis (KOPI). We demonstrate KOPI's utility with staurosporine (STS) on the leukemic K562 cell proteome. We identified systematically staurosporine's non-kinome interactors, and showed for the first time that it caused paradoxical hyper- and biphasic phosphorylation.
PXD037537	35906682	Proteotranscriptomics of ocular adnexal B-cell lymphoma reveals an oncogenic role of alternative splicing and identifies a diagnostic marker. 	TMT labeling quantitative LC-MS of ocluar adnexal B-cell lymphomas and controls	inflammation, lymphoma, ocular adnexal lymphoma, quantitative proteome, tumor	BACKGROUND: Ocular adnexal B-cell lymphoma (OABL) is a rare subtype of non-Hodgkin lymphoma. The molecular characteristics of OABL remain poorly understood. We performed an integrated study to investigate the proteotranscriptome landscape and identify novel molecular characteristics and biomarkers of OABL. METHODS: Integrated quantitative proteome and transcriptome were performed on 40 OABL 12 idiopathic orbital inflammation, 6 reactive lymphoid hyperplasia, and 13 aesthetic orbital plastic surgery specimens. Complete clinicopathologic and prognostic data of the patients were recorded. RESULTS: We identified high global protein-mRNA concordance as a novel characteristic of OABL. High concordance was related to OABL recurrence. By integrated expression profile, motif enrichment and trend analysis, we found that alternative splicing is inflammation-independently dysregulated in OABL. After portraying the aberrant alternative splicing event landscape, we demonstrated the oncogenic role of ADAR, a core splicing regulator that regulates the splicing of Rho GTPase and cell cycle members. We found that ADAR regulates cell proliferation and Rho GTPase inhibitor sensitivity of lymphoma. We identified DNAJC9 as a potential biomarker for OABL in proteomic analyses. Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescent staining showed the nuclear staining of DNAJC9 was significantly higher in extranodal marginal zone lymphomas compared with inflammation specimens. CONCLUSIONS: These results provide an integrated gene expression profiling and demonstrate that high global protein-mRNA concordance is a prognosis-related molecular characteristic of OABL. We portray the alternative splicing events landscape of OABL, and reveal the oncogenic role of ADAR. We identified strong nuclear staining of DNAJC9 as a promising pathology diagnostic biomarker for extranodal marginal zone lymphomas.
PXD029260	35908726	ROS-stimulated protein lysine acetylation is required for crown root development in rice. 	A Redox-Dependent Pathway for Regulating Reversible HDACs Synchronizes Crown Root Development in Rice	Acetylomeï¼›ROSï¼›Rice rootï¼›HDACï¼›WOX11	INTRODUCTION: As signal molecules in aerobic organisms, locally accumulated ROS have been reported to balance cell division and differentiation in the root meristem. Protein posttranslational modifications such as lysine acetylation play critical roles in controlling a variety of cellular processes. However, the mechanism by which ROS regulate root development is unknown. In addition, how protein lysine acetylation is regulated and whether cellular ROS levels affect protein lysine acetylation remain unclear. OBJECTIVES: We aimed to elucidate the relationship between ROS and protein acetylation by exploring a rice mutant plant that displays a decreased level of ROS in postembryonic crown root (CR) cells and severe defects in CR development. METHODS: First, proteomic analysis was used to find candidate proteins responsible for the decrease of ROS detected in the wox11 mutant. Then, biochemical, molecular, and genetic analyses were used to study WOX11-regulated genes involved in ROS homeostasis. Finally, acetylproteomic analysis of wild type and wox11 roots treated with or without potassium iodide (KI) and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) was used to study the effects of ROS on protein acetylation in rice CR cells. RESULTS: We demonstrated that WOX11 was required to maintain ROS homeostasis by upregulating peroxidase genes in the crown root meristem. Acetylproteomic analysis revealed that WOX11-dependent hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) levels in CR cells promoted lysine acetylation of many non-histone proteins enriched for nitrogen metabolism and peptide/protein synthesis pathways. Further analysis revealed that the redox state affected histone deacetylases (HDACs) activity, which was likely related to the high levels of protein lysine acetylation in CR cells. CONCLUSION: WOX11-controlled ROS level in CR meristem cells is required for protein lysine acetylation which represents a mechanism of ROS-promoted CR development in rice.
PXD031889	35909753	Integration of Transcriptomic and Proteomic Profiles Reveals Multiple Levels of Genetic Regulation of Taproot Growth in Sugar Beet (Beta vulgaris L.). 	Proteomic analysis of the taproot growth and development stage in Beta vulgaris	Sugar beet, Taproot growth and development	Sugar beet taproot growth and development is a complex biological process involving morphogenesis and dry matter accumulation. However, the molecular regulatory mechanisms underlying taproot growth and development remain elusive. We performed a correlation analysis of the proteome and transcriptome in two cultivars (SD13829 and BS02) at the start and the highest points of the taproot growth rate. The corresponding correlation coefficients were 0.6189, 0.7714, 0.6803, and 0.7056 in four comparison groups. A total of 621 genes were regulated at both transcriptional and translational levels, including 190, 71, 140, and 220 in the BS59-VS-BS82, BS59-VS-SD59, BS82-VS-SD82, and SD59-VS-SD82 groups, respectively. Ten, 32, and 68 correlated-DEGs-DEPs (cor-DEGs-DEPs) were significantly enrdiched in the proteome and transcriptome of the BS59-VS-BS82, SD59-VS-SD82, and BS82-VS-SD82 groups, respectively, which included ribonuclease 1-like protein, DEAD-box ATP-dependent RNA helicase, TolB protein, heat shock protein 83, 20 kDa chaperonin, polygalacturonase, endochitinase, brassinolide and gibberellin receptors (BRI1 and GID1), and xyloglucan endotransglucosylase/hydrolase (XTH). In addition, Beta vulgaris XTH could enhance the growth and development of Arabidopsis primary roots by improving cell growth in the root tip elongation zone. These findings suggested that taproot growth and expansion might be regulated at transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels and also may be attributed to cell wall metabolism to improve cell wall loosening and elongation.
PXD032857	35910577	Study on Proteomics-Based Aortic Dissection Molecular Markers Using iTRAQ Combined With Label Free Techniques. 	aortic dissection molecular markers using iTRAQ combined with Label Free techniques	Aortic dissection, Label-free, Lumican, iTRAQ	Background: Aortic dissection refers to the separation of aortic media and extension along the long axis to form the true and false chambers of the aortic wall. 65-70% of the patients died of cardiac tamponade, arrhythmia, dissection rupture, etc. At present, echocardiography, computed tomography angiography (CTA), etc. are the main diagnosis tools for aortic dissection. To date, there is no rapid serum molecular marker that can be used for differential diagnosis and risk assessment. Objectives: To screen serum molecular markers systematically amid aortic dissection and acute coronary syndrome and to preliminarily identify the pathogenesis of acute aortic dissection. Methods: Related disputes cases of all hospitals were statistically analyzed for the AAD medical disputes ratio, early death ratio and misdiagnosis ratio from the database of Guangdong Province Medical Disputes Coordination Committee from 2013 to 2017. Serum and Aortic tissues samples were respectively quantified by iTRAQ and label-free analysis, further validated by ELISA and protein verified by immunofluorescence and Western blot from AAD and control patients enrolled from the Zhujiang Hospital of Southern Medical University and Guangdong Province people's Hospital from 2016 to 2018. Results: AAD cases ratio accounted for 15.29% in all 150 cardiovascular disputes, 59.26% in all cardiovascular death less than 24 h, and 88.89% in the patients who remained undiagnosed at the time of death, 84 proteins (66 and 18 upregulated and downregulated, respectively) were identified by iTRAQ and 16 proteins (9 and 7 upregulated and downregulated, respectively) by Label-free. Nine proteins (Lumican, FGL1, PI16, MMP9, FBN1, MMP2, VWF, MMRN1, and PF4) related to the pathogenesis of aortic dissection were identified by David /Ease and String techniques as candidate biomarkers for verification test. Four proteins (Lumican, FGL1, PI16, and MMP9) were found to be statistically different after ELISA verification. The expression of FGL1, PI16, and MMP9 proteins was pathologically significantly increased except for Lumican. Histologically, TGF-beta1, alpha-SMA, and Collagen1 were also significantly higher in the aortic group. Conclusion: Lumican, FGL1, PI16, and MMP9 may be potential biomarkers in AAD patients, and the Lumican-mediated TGF-beta1 pathway is likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of aortic dissection.
PXD034197	35911774	2B and 3C Proteins of Senecavirus A Antagonize the Antiviral Activity of DDX21 via the Caspase-Dependent Degradation of DDX21. 	TMT analysis of protein expression in SVA-infected PK-15cells	PK-15, Senecavirus A, TMT	Senecavirus A (SVA), also known as Seneca Valley virus, is a recently discovered picornavirus that can cause swine vesicular disease, posing a great threat to the global swine industry. It can replicate efficiently in cells, but the molecular mechanism remains poorly understood. This study determined the host's differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) during SVA infection using dimethyl labeling based on quantitative proteomics. Among the DE proteins, DDX21, a member of the DEAD (Asp-Glu-Ala-Asp)-box RNA helicase (DDX) family, was downregulated and demonstrated inhibiting SVA replication by overexpression and knockdown experiment. To antagonize this antiviral effect of DDX21, SVA infection induces the degradation of DDX21 by 2B and 3C proteins. The Co-IP results showed that 2B and 3C did not interact with DDX21, suggesting that the degradation of DDX21 did not depend on their interaction. Moreover, the 3C protein protease activity was necessary for the degradation of DDX21. Furthermore, our study revealed that the degradation of DDX21 by 2B and 3C proteins of SVA was achieved through the caspase pathway. These findings suggest that DDX21 was an effective antiviral factor for suppressing SVA infection and that SVA antagonized its antiviral effect by degrading DDX21, which will be useful to guide further studies into the mechanism of mutual regulation between SVA and the host.
PXD035071	35912527	A lipopolysaccharide-dependent phage infects a pseudomonad phytopathogen and can evolve to evade phage resistance. 	A lipopolysaccharide-dependent phage infects a pseudomonad phytopathogen and can evolve to evade phage resistance	Psa phage proteomics, cryo-electron microscopy, phage biocontrol, structural proteome Î¦Psa374	Bacterial pathogens are major causes of crop diseases, leading to significant production losses. For instance, kiwifruit canker, caused by the phytopathogen Pseudomonas syringae pv. actinidiae (Psa), has posed a global challenge to kiwifruit production. Treatment with copper and antibiotics, whilst initially effective, is leading to the rise of bacterial resistance, requiring new biocontrol approaches. Previously, we isolated a group of closely related Psa phages with biocontrol potential, which represent environmentally sustainable antimicrobials. However, their deployment as antimicrobials requires further insight into their properties and infection strategy. Here, we provide an in-depth examination of the genome of PhiPsa374-like phages and show that they use lipopolysaccharides (LPS) as their main receptor. Through proteomics and cryo-electron microscopy of PhiPsa374, we revealed the structural proteome and that this phage possess a T = 9 capsid triangulation, unusual for myoviruses. Furthermore, we show that PhiPsa374 phage resistance arises in planta through mutations in a glycosyltransferase involved in LPS synthesis. Lastly, through in vitro evolution experiments we showed that phage resistance is overcome by mutations in a tail fibre and structural protein of unknown function in PhiPsa374. This study provides new insight into the properties of PhiPsa374-like phages that informs their use as antimicrobials against Psa.
PXD030791	35912924	NAPT, an unbiased approach for sequential analysis of the protein N- and C-terminome. 	NAPT, an unbiased approach for sequential analysis of protein N- and C- terminome	N- and C- terminome, hela cell	Protein termini are generally associated with protein stability. Taking advantage of charge state differences between terminal peptides and internal peptides, we developed a new method termed LysargiNase-assisted Analysis of the Protein N- and C-Terminome (NAPT) for selective separation of protein termini. Altogether, we identified 2458 protein N-termini and 3056 protein C-termini from the HeLa cell line.
PXD034227	35914019	Optimization of Ultrafast Proteomics Using an LC-Quadrupole-Orbitrap Mass Spectrometer with Data-Independent Acquisition. 	Ultra-fast proteome analysis of HEK293T cells using Q-Orbitrap MS	DIA, High-throughput proteomics, Q-Orbitrap MS	Proteomics has become an increasingly important tool in medical and medicinal applications. It is necessary to improve the analytical throughput for these applications, particularly in large-scale drug screening to enable measurement of a large number of samples. In this study, we aimed to establish an ultrafast proteomic method based on 5-min gradient LC and quadrupole-Orbitrap mass spectrometer (Q-Orbitrap MS). We precisely optimized data-independent acquisition (DIA) parameters for 5-min gradient LC and reached a depth of >5000 and 4200 proteins from 1000 and 31.25 ng of HEK293T cell digest in a single-shot run, respectively. The throughput of our method enabled the measurement of approximately 80 samples/day, including sample loading, column equilibration, and wash running time. We demonstrated that our method is applicable for the screening of chemical responsivity via a cell stimulation assay. These data show that our method enables the capture of biological alterations in proteomic profiles with high sensitivity, suggesting the possibility of large-scale screening of chemical responsivity.
PXD032689	35914717	TMT-based quantitative membrane proteomics identified PRRs potentially involved in the perception of MSP1 in rice leaves. 	TMT-based quantitative membrTMT-based quantitative membrane proteomics reveals in-depth investigation of PRRs involved in the perception of MSP1 in rice leavesane proteomics reveals in-depth investigation of PRRs involved in the perception of MSP1 in rice	MME method, MSP1, Magnaporthe oryzae, PRRs, Plant-pathogen interaction, Rice, TMT	Pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) play a key role in triggering PAMPs triggered immunity (PTI) in plants. In the case of the rice-Magnaporthe oryzae pathosystem, fewer PAMPs and their pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) have been characterized. Recently, a M. oryzae snodprot1 homolog protein (MSP1) has been identified that functions as PAMP and triggering the PTI responses in rice. However, the molecular mechanism underlying MSP1-induced PTI is currently elusive. Therefore, we generated MSP1 overexpressed transgenic lines of rice, and a tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative membrane proteomic analysis was employed to decipher the potential MSP1-induced signaling in rice using total cytosolic as well as membrane protein fractions. This approach led to the identification of 8033 proteins of which 1826 were differentially modulated in response to overexpression of MSP1 and/or exogenous jasmonic acid treatment. Of these, 20 plasma membrane-localized receptor-like kinases (RLKs) showed increased abundance in MSP1 overexpression lines. Moreover, activation of proteins related to the protein degradation and modification, calcium signaling, redox, and MAPK signaling was observed in transgenic lines expressing MSP1 in the apoplast. Taken together, our results identified potential PRR candidates involved in MSP1 recognition and suggested the overview mechanism of the MSP1-induced PTI signaling in rice leaves. SIGNIFICANCE: In plants, recognition of pathogen pathogen-derived molecules, such as PAMPs, by plant plant-derived PRRs has an essential role for in the activation of PTI against pathogen invasion. Typically, PAMPs are recognized by plasma membrane (PM) localized PRRs, however, identifying the PM-localized PRR proteins is challenging due to their low abundance. In this study, we performed an integrated membrane protein enrichment by microsomal membrane extraction (MME) method and subsequent TMT-labeling-based quantitative proteomic analysis using MSP1 overexpressed rice. Based on these results, we successfully identified various intracellular and membrane membrane-localized proteins that participated in the MSP1-induced immune response and characterized the potential PM-localized PRR candidates in rice.
PXD035503	35915203	The E3 ubiquitin ligase HECTD1 contributes to cell proliferation through an effect on mitosis. 	The E3 ubiquitin ligase HECTD1 contributes to cell proliferation through an effect on mitosis	E3 ubiquitin ligase, HECTD1, TRABID, Ubiquitin, cell cycle, cell proliferation	The cell cycle is tightly regulated by protein phosphorylation and ubiquitylation events. During mitosis, the multi-subunit cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase APC/c functions as a molecular switch which signals for one cell to divide into two daughter cells, through the ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation of mitotic cyclins. The contributions of other E3 ligase families during cell cycle progression remain less well understood. Similarly, the roles of ubiquitin chain types beyond homotypic K48 chains in S-phase or branched K11/K48 chains during mitosis, also remain to be fully determined. Our recent findings that HECTD1 ubiquitin ligase activity assembles branched K29/K48 ubiquitin linkages prompted us to evaluate HECTD1 function during the cell cycle. We used transient knockdown and genetic knockout to show that HECTD1 depletion in HEK293T and HeLa cells decreases cell number and we established that this is mediated through loss of ubiquitin ligase activity. Interestingly, we found that HECTD1 depletion increases the proportion of cells with aligned chromosomes (Prometa/Metaphase) and we confirmed this molecularly using phospho-Histone H3 (Ser28) as a marker of mitosis. Time-lapse microscopy of NEBD to anaphase onset established that HECTD1-depleted cells take on average longer to go through mitosis. In line with this data, HECTD1 depletion reduced the activity of the Spindle Assembly Checkpoint, and BUB3, a component of the Mitosis Checkpoint Complex, was identified as novel HECTD1 interactor. BUB3, BUBR1 or MAD2 protein levels remained unchanged in HECTD1-depleted cells. Overall, this study reveals a novel putative role for HECTD1 during mitosis and warrants further work to elucidate the mechanisms involved.
PXD023775	35915349	Serum exosomal coronin 1A and dynamin 2 as neural tube defect biomarkers. 	Rat Serum Exosome LC-MSMS(Label free)	Label free, Rat, Serum exosome	No highly specific and sensitive biomarkers have been identified for early diagnosis of neural tube defects (NTDs). In this study, we used proteomics to identify novel proteins specific for NTDs. Our findings revealed three proteins showing differential expression during fetal development. In a rat model of NTDs, we used western blotting to quantify proteins in maternal serum exosomes on gestational days E18, E16, E14, and E12, in serum on E18 and E12, in neural tubes on E18 and E12, and in fetal neural exosomes on E18. The expression of coronin 1A and dynamin 2 was exosome-specific and associated with spina bifida aperta embryogenesis. Furthermore, coronin 1A and dynamin 2 were significantly downregulated in maternal serum exosomes (E12-E18), neural tubes, and fetal neural exosomes. Although downregulation was also observed in serum, the difference was not significant. Differentially expressed proteins were further analyzed in the serum exosomes of pregnant women during gestational weeks 12-40 using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays. The findings revealed that coronin 1A and dynamin 2 showed potential diagnostic efficacy during gestational weeks 12-40, particularly during early gestation (12-18 weeks). Therefore, these two targets are used as candidate NTD screening and diagnostic biomarkers during early gestation. KEY MESSAGES: We used proteomics to identify novel proteins specific for NTDs. CORO1A and DNM2 showed exosome-specific expression and were associated with SBA. CORO1A and DNM2 were downregulated in maternal serum exosomes and FNEs. CORO1A and DNM2 showed good diagnostic efficacy for NTDs during early gestation. These two targets may have applications as NTD screening and diagnostic biomarkers.
PXD033519	35916071	Immunoproteome profiling of Listeria monocytogenes under mild acid and salt stress conditions. 	Immunoproteome profiling of Listeria monocytogenes under mild acid and salt stress conditions	Listeria monocytogenes, acid stress, immunoproteome, salt stress, sub-optimal temperature	Listeria monocytogenes is one of the main foodborne pathogens worldwide. Although its response to stress conditions has been extensively studied, it is still present in the food processing environments and is a concern for consumers. To investigate how this microorganism adapts its proteome in mild stress conditions, a combined proteomics and bioinformatics approach was used to characterize the immunogenic protein profile of a sequence type 7 (ST7) strain that caused severe listeriosis outbreaks in central Italy. Extracted proteins were analyzed by immunoblotting using positive sera against L. monocytogenes and nLC-ESI-MS/MS, and all data were examined by five software to predict subcellular localization (SCL). A total of 226 proteins were extracted from the bands of interest, 58 of which were classified as potential immunogenic antigens. Compared to control cells grown under optimal conditions, six proteins, some of which under-described, were expressed under mild acid and salt stress conditions and/or at 12degreesC. In particular, adaptation and shaping of the proteome mainly involved cell motility at 12degreesC without acid and salt stress, whereas the combination of the same temperature with mild acid and salt stress induced a response concerning carbohydrate metabolism, oxidative stress, and DNA repair. Raw data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD033519.
PXD023165	35917363	CD9 mediates the uptake of extracellular vesicles from cancer-associated fibroblasts that promote pancreatic cancer cell aggressiveness. 	CD9, a key mediator of pancreatic cancer cell aggressiveness driven by CAFs-derived extracellular vesicles	CD9, Cancer-Associated Fibroblasts (CAFs), Extra-cellular Vesicles (EVs), Migration, Pancreatic cancer (PC), Stromal compartment, p38/MAPK pathway	In pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), signaling from stromal cells is implicated in metastatic progression. Tumor-stroma cross-talk is often mediated through extracellular vesicles (EVs). We previously reported that EVs derived from cancer-associated stromal fibroblasts (CAFs) that are abundant in annexin A6 (ANXA6(+) EVs) support tumor cell aggressiveness in PDAC. Here, we found that the cell surface glycoprotein and tetraspanin CD9 is a key component of CAF-derived ANXA6(+) EVs for mediating this cross-talk. CD9 was abundant on the surface of ANXA6(+) CAFs isolated from patient PDAC samples and from various mouse models of PDAC. CD9 colocalized with CAF markers in the tumor stroma, and CD9 abundance correlated with tumor stage. Blocking CD9 impaired the uptake of ANXA6(+) EVs into cultured PDAC cells. Signaling pathway arrays and further analyses revealed that the uptake of CD9(+)ANXA6(+) EVs induced mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway activity, cell migration, and epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Blocking either CD9 or p38 MAPK signaling impaired CD9(+)ANXA6(+) EV-induced cell migration and EMT in PDAC cells. Analysis of bioinformatic datasets indicated that CD9 abundance was an independent marker of poor prognosis in patients with PDAC. Our findings suggest that CD9-mediated stromal cell signaling promotes PDAC progression.
PXD031029	35918147	Nuclear Condensation of CDYL Links Histone Crotonylation and Cystogenesis in Autosomal Dominant Polycystic Kidney Disease. 	Nuclear condensation of CDYL links histone crotonylation and cystogenesis in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease	CDYL, Histone Crotonylation, WT9-12 cells	BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence indicates that epigenetic modulation of gene expression plays a key role in the progression of autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). However, the molecular basis for how the altered epigenome modulates transcriptional responses, and thereby disease progression in ADPKD, remains largely unknown. METHODS: Kidneys from control and ADPKD mice were examined for the expression of CDYL and histone acylations. CDYL expression and its correlation with disease severity were analyzed in a cohort of patients with ADPKD. Cdyl transgenic mice were crossed with Pkd1 knockout mice to explore CDYL's role in ADPKD progression. Integrated cistromic and transcriptomic analyses were performed to identify direct CDYL target genes. High-sensitivity mass spectrometry analyses were undertaken to characterize CDYL-regulated histone lysine crotonylations (Kcr). Biochemical analysis and zebrafish models were used for investigating CDYL phase separation. RESULTS: CDYL was downregulated in ADPKD kidneys, accompanied by an increase of histone Kcr. Genetic overexpression of Cdyl reduced histone Kcr and slowed cyst growth. We identified CDYL-regulated cyst-associated genes, whose downregulation depended on CDYL-mediated suppression of histone Kcr. CDYL assembled nuclear condensates through liquid-liquid phase separation in cultured kidney epithelial cells and in normal kidney tissues. The phase-separating capacity of CDYL was required for efficient suppression of locus-specific histone Kcr, of expression of its target genes, and of cyst growth. CONCLUSIONS: These results elucidate a mechanism by which CDYL nuclear condensation links histone Kcr to transcriptional responses and cystogenesis in ADPKD.
PXD029591	35918900	Characterization of protein complexes in extracellular vesicles by intact extracellular vesicle crosslinking mass spectrometry (iEVXL). 	Intact extracellular vesicle cross-linking on vesicles derived from  MDA-MB-231 and LM2 cells	CX-MS, EVs, TNBC, XL-MS, structural proteomics	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are blood-borne messengers that coordinate signalling between different tissues and organs in the body. The specificity of such crosstalk is determined by preferential EV docking to target sites, as mediated through protein-protein interactions. As such, the need to structurally characterize the EV surface precedes further understanding of docking selectivity and recipient-cell uptake mechanisms. Here, we describe an intact extracellular vesicle crosslinking mass spectrometry (iEVXL) method that can be applied for structural characterization of protein complexes in EVs. By using a partially membrane-permeable disuccinimidyl suberate crosslinker, proteins on the EV outer-surface and inside EVs can be immobilized together with their interacting partners. This not only provides covalent stabilization of protein complexes before extraction from the membrane-enclosed environment, but also generates a set of crosslinking distance restraints that can be used for structural modelling and comparative screening of changes in EV protein assemblies. Here we demonstrate iEVXL as a powerful approach to reveal high-resolution information, about protein determinants that govern EV docking and signalling, and as a crucial aid in modelling docking interactions.
PXD030343	35919862	Proteome and phosphoproteome signatures of recurrence for HPV(+) head and neck squamous cell carcinoma. 	Proteome and phosphoproteome signatures of recurrence for HPV+ head and neck squamous cell carcinoma	fibrosis, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, human papillomavirus, immune landscape, phosphoproteomics, recurrence, tumor microenvironment	Background: Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is the sixth most common cancer worldwide and the human papillomavirus (HPV(+))-driven subtype is the fastest rising cancer in North America. Although most cases of HPV(+) HNSCC respond favorably to the treatment via surgery followed by radiochemotherapy, up to 20% recur with a poor prognosis. The molecular and cellular mechanisms of recurrence are not fully understood. Methods: To gain insights into the mechanisms of recurrence and to inform patient stratification and personalized treatment, we compared the proteome and phosphoproteome of recurrent and non-recurrent tumors by quantitative mass spectrometry. Results: We observe significant differences between the recurrent and non-recurrent tumors in cellular composition, function, and signaling. The recurrent tumors are characterized by a pro-fibrotic and immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME) featuring markedly more abundant cancer-associated fibroblasts, extracellular matrix (ECM), neutrophils, and suppressive myeloid cells. Defective T cell function and increased epithelial-mesenchymal transition potential are also associated with recurrence. These cellular changes in the TME are accompanied by reprogramming of the kinome and the signaling networks that regulate the ECM, cytoskeletal reorganization, cell adhesion, neutrophil function, and coagulation. Conclusions: In addition to providing systems-level insights into the molecular basis of recurrence, our work identifies numerous mechanism-based, candidate biomarkers and therapeutic targets that may aid future endeavors to develop prognostic biomarkers and precision-targeted treatment for recurrent HPV(+) HNSCC.
PXD030389	35920043	Plasmodium berghei leucine-rich repeat protein 1 downregulates protein phosphatase 1 activity and is required for efficient oocyst development. 	Plasmodium berghei Leucin Rich Repeat 1 involvement in early sporogony	Immunoprecipitation, Plasmodium berghei, Q-Exactive Plus	Protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) is a key enzyme for Plasmodium development. However, the detailed mechanisms underlying its regulation remain to be deciphered. Here, we report the functional characterization of the Plasmodium berghei leucine-rich repeat protein 1 (PbLRR1), an orthologue of SDS22, one of the most ancient and conserved PP1 interactors. Our study shows that PbLRR1 is expressed during intra-erythrocytic development of the parasite, and up to the zygote stage in mosquitoes. PbLRR1 can be found in complex with PbPP1 in both asexual and sexual stages and inhibits its phosphatase activity. Genetic analysis demonstrates that PbLRR1 depletion adversely affects the development of oocysts. PbLRR1 interactome analysis associated with phospho-proteomics studies identifies several novel putative PbLRR1/PbPP1 partners. Some of these partners have previously been characterized as essential for the parasite sexual development. Interestingly, and for the first time, Inhibitor 3 (I3), a well-known and direct interactant of Plasmodium PP1, was found to be drastically hypophosphorylated in PbLRR1-depleted parasites. These data, along with the detection of I3 with PP1 in the LRR1 interactome, strongly suggest that the phosphorylation status of PbI3 is under the control of the PP1-LRR1 complex and could contribute (in)directly to oocyst development. This study provides new insights into previously unrecognized PbPP1 fine regulation of Plasmodium oocyst development through its interaction with PbLRR1.
PXD045070	35920599	Profiling of proteome changes in plasma of HIV-infected patients receiving antiretroviral therapy. 	Profiling of proteome changes in plasma of HIV-infected patients receiving antiretroviral therapy	ART, HIV-1	PURPOSE: Antiretroviral therapy (ART) prevents human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 onward transmission and disease progression, leading to excellent prognosis in people living with HIV-1 (PWH). However, side effects, complications, and impaired immune reconstitution persist in some patients treated with ART. We aimed to profile proteome changes in plasma before and after ART to identify the molecular pathways altered by ART. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Quantitative proteomics analysis based on tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling was used to profile proteome changes of paired plasma samples from HIV-1 patients before receiving ART and after ART treatment. RESULTS: A total of 1398 protein groups (PGs) were identified, in which 18 proteins were downregulated and 50 were upregulated in plasma from ART treated patients. Based on Ingenuity Pathway analysis (IPA), gap junction signaling and actin cytoskeleton signaling were enriched among upregulated proteins, while downregulated proteins were mainly participated in IL-15 signaling pathway. Patients with the low level of CSF1R and the high levels of MINPP1 and TGM3 showed better CD4(+) T-cell recovery. CONCLUSIONS: The present study provided plasma proteome changes after ART to elucidate the underlying mechanistic pathways in response to ART, and also identified potential targets to prompt immune reconstitution.
PXD030502	35921164	The mitochondrial RNA granule modulates manganese-dependent cell toxicity. 	The Mitochondrial RNA Granule is Necessary for Parkinsonism-Associated Metal Toxicity	Manganism, PARK2, Parkinsons, RNA granule, SLC30A10, mitochondria, mitochondrial transcriptome	Prolonged manganese exposure causes manganism, a neurodegenerative movement disorder. The identity of adaptive and nonadaptive cellular processes targeted by manganese remains mostly unexplored. Here we study mechanisms engaged by manganese in genetic cellular models known to increase susceptibility to manganese exposure, the plasma membrane manganese efflux transporter SLC30A10 and the mitochondrial Parkinson's gene PARK2. We found that SLC30A10 and PARK2 mutations as well as manganese exposure compromised the mitochondrial RNA granule composition and function, resulting in disruption of mitochondrial transcript processing. These RNA granule defects led to impaired assembly and function of the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Notably, cells that survived a cytotoxic manganese challenge had impaired RNA granule function, thus suggesting that this granule phenotype was adaptive. CRISPR gene editing of subunits of the mitochondrial RNA granule, FASTKD2 or DHX30, as well as pharmacological inhibition of mitochondrial transcription-translation, were protective rather than deleterious for survival of cells acutely exposed to manganese. Similarly, adult Drosophila mutants with defects in the mitochondrial RNA granule component scully were safeguarded from manganese-induced mortality. We conclude that impairment of the mitochondrial RNA granule function is a protective mechanism for acute manganese toxicity.
PXD028479	35921411	KCTD7 mutations impair the trafficking of lysosomal enzymes through CLN5 accumulation to cause neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses. 	Human_HeLa endogenous KCTD7_IP-MS	HeLa, IP-MS, KCTD7	Lysosomes are central organelles for cellular degradation and energy metabolism. Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCLs) are a group of the most common neurodegenerative lysosomal storage disorders characterized by intracellular accumulation of ceroid in neurons. Mutations in KCTD7, a gene encoding an adaptor of the CUL3-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase (CRL3) complex, are categorized as a unique NCL subtype. However, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we report various lysosomal and autophagic defects in KCTD7-deficient cells. Mechanistically, the CRL3-KCTD7 complex degrades CLN5, whereas patient-derived KCTD7 mutations disrupt the interaction between KCTD7-CUL3 or KCTD7-CLN5 and ultimately lead to excessive accumulation of CLN5. The accumulated CLN5 disrupts the interaction between CLN6/8 and lysosomal enzymes at the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), subsequently impairing ER-to-Golgi trafficking of lysosomal enzymes. Our findings reveal previously unrecognized roles of KCTD7-mediated CLN5 proteolysis in lysosomal homeostasis and demonstrate that KCTD7 and CLN5 are biochemically linked and function in a common neurodegenerative pathway.
PXD029455	35921477	Altiratinib blocks Toxoplasma gondii and Plasmodium falciparum development by selectively targeting a spliceosome kinase. 	MS-based proteomic characterization of Toxoplasma gondii PRP4K and PRP8 interactomes	Toxoplasma gondii, interactome, kinase, nanoLC-MS/MS, splicing	The Apicomplexa comprise a large phylum of single-celled, obligate intracellular protozoa that include Toxoplasma gondii, Plasmodium, and Cryptosporidium spp., which infect humans and animals and cause severe parasitic diseases. Available therapeutics against these diseases are limited by suboptimal efficacy and frequent side effects, as well as the emergence and spread of resistance. We use a drug repurposing strategy and identify altiratinib, a compound originally developed to treat glioblastoma, as a promising drug candidate with broad spectrum activity against apicomplexans. Altiratinib is parasiticidal and blocks the development of intracellular zoites in the nanomolar range and with a high selectivity index when used against T. gondii. We have identified TgPRP4K of T. gondii as the primary target of altiratinib using genetic target deconvolution, which highlighted key residues within the kinase catalytic site that conferred drug resistance when mutated. We have further elucidated the molecular basis of the inhibitory mechanism and species selectivity of altiratinib for TgPRP4K and for its Plasmodium falciparum counterpart, PfCLK3. Our data identified structural features critical for binding of the other PfCLK3 inhibitor, TCMDC-135051. Consistent with the splicing control activity of this kinase family, we have shown that altiratinib can cause global disruption of splicing, primarily through intron retention in both T. gondii and P. falciparum. Thus, our data establish parasitic PRP4K/CLK3 as a potential pan-apicomplexan target whose repertoire of inhibitors can be expanded by the addition of altiratinib.
PXD025616	35923105	alphavbeta1 integrin is enriched in extracellular vesicles of metastatic breast cancer cells: A mechanism mediated by galectin-3. 	Comparative mass spectrometry of extracellular vesicles	MB231 cells, breast cancer, extracellular vesicles	Breast cancer cells release a large quantity of biocargo-bearing extracellular vesicles (EVs), which mediate intercellular communication within the tumour microenvironment and promote metastasis. To identify EV-bound proteins related to metastasis, we used mass spectrometry to profile EVs from highly and poorly metastatic breast cancer lines of human and mouse origins. Comparative mass spectrometry indicated that integrins, including alphav and beta1 subunits, are preferentially enriched in EVs of highly metastatic origin over those of poorly metastatic origin. These results are consistent with our histopathological findings, which show that integrin alphav is associated with disease progression in breast cancer patients. Integrin alphav colocalizes with the multivesicular-body marker CD63 at a higher frequency in the tumour and is enriched in circulating EVs of breast cancer patients at late stages when compared with circulating EVs from early-stage patients. With a magnetic bead-based flow cytometry assay, we confirmed that integrins alphav and beta1 are enriched in the CD63(+) subsets of EVs from both human and mouse highly metastatic cells. By analysing the level of integrin alphav on circulating EVs, this assay could predict the metastatic potential of a xenografted mouse model. To explore the export mechanism of integrins into EVs, we performed immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry and identified members of the galectin family as potential shuttlers of integrin alphavbeta1 into EVs. In particular, knockdown of galectin-3, but not galectin-1, causes a reduction in the levels of cell surface integrins beta1 and alphav, and decreases the colocalization of these integrins with CD63. Importantly, knockdown of galectin-3 leads to a decrease of integrin alphavbeta1 export into the EVs concomitant with a decrease in the metastatic potential of breast cancer cells. Moreover, inhibition of the integrin alphavbeta1 complex leads to a reduction in the binding of EVs to fibronectin, suggesting that integrin alphavbeta1 is important for EV retention in the extracellular matrix. EVs retained in the extracellular matrix are taken up by fibroblasts, which differentiate into cancer associated fibroblasts. In summary, our data indicate an important link between EV-bound integrin alphavbeta1 with breast cancer metastasis and provide additional insights into the export of integrin alphavbeta1 into EVs in the context of metastasis.
PXD031027	35923397	Lagovirus Non-structural Protein p23: A Putative Viroporin That Interacts With Heat Shock Proteins and Uses a Disulfide Bond for Dimerization. 	rabbit haemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV) infected rabbit liver proteome	RHDV, liver, rabbit	The exact function(s) of the lagovirus non-structural protein p23 is unknown as robust cell culture systems for the Rabbit haemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV) and other lagoviruses have not been established. Instead, a range of in vitro and in silico models have been used to study p23, revealing that p23 oligomerizes, accumulates in the cytoplasm, and possesses a conserved C-terminal region with two amphipathic helices. Furthermore, the positional homologs of p23 in other caliciviruses have been shown to possess viroporin activity. Here, we report on the mechanistic details of p23 oligomerization. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed the importance of an N-terminal cysteine for dimerization. Furthermore, we identified cellular interactors of p23 using stable isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based proteomics; heat shock proteins Hsp70 and 110 interact with p23 in transfected cells, suggesting that they 'chaperone' p23 proteins before their integration into cellular membranes. We investigated changes to the global transcriptome and proteome that occurred in infected rabbit liver tissue and observed changes to the misfolded protein response, calcium signaling, and the regulation of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) network. Finally, flow cytometry studies indicate slightly elevated calcium concentrations in the cytoplasm of p23-transfected cells. Taken together, accumulating evidence suggests that p23 is a viroporin that might form calcium-conducting channels in the ER membranes.
PXD036553	35923625	Proteotypic Differences of Follicular-Patterned Thyroid Neoplasms. 	Proteotypic differences of follicular-patterned thyroid neoplasms	follicular-patterned thyroid neoplasms	The diagnosis of follicular-patterned thyroid tumors such as follicular thyroid adenoma (FA), follicular thyroid carcinoma (FTC), and follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma (FvPTC) remains challenging. This study aimed to explore the molecular differences among these three thyroid tumors by proteomic analysis. A pressure cycling technology (PCT)-data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry workflow was employed to investigate protein alterations in 52 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) specimens: 18 FA, 15 FTC, and 19 FvPTC specimens. Immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis of 101 FA, 67 FTC, and 65 FvPTC specimens and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) analysis of 20 FA, 20 FTC, and 20 FvPTC specimens were performed to validate protein biomarkers. A total of 4107 proteins were quantified from 52 specimens. Pairwise comparisons identified 287 differentially regulated proteins between FTC and FA, and 303 between FvPTC and FA and 88 proteins were co-dysregulated in the two comparisons. However, only 23 discriminatory proteins between FTC and FvPTC were detected. Additionally, the quantitative results for ANXA1 expression based on IHC staining and PRM-MS quantification were consistent with the proteomic results, showing that ANXA1 can be used to distinguish FvPTC from FA and FTC. The differentially regulated proteins found in this study can differentiate FA from FvPTC. In addition, ANXA1 is a promising biomarker for differentiating FvPTC from the other thyroid tumors.
PXD031975	35923846	Uncoupling of Mitosis and Cytokinesis Upon a Prolonged Arrest in Metaphase Is Influenced by Protein Phosphatases and Mitotic Transcription in Fission Yeast. 	Proteomics profiling of mitotic arrest by transcriptional silencing of the Cdc20 homolog slp1 in fission yeast	LC-MS, fission yeast, label-free	Depletion of the Anaphase-Promoting Complex/Cyclosome (APC/C) activator Cdc20 arrests cells in metaphase with high levels of the mitotic cyclin (Cyclin B) and the Separase inhibitor Securin. In mammalian cells this arrest has been exploited for the treatment of cancer with drugs that engage the spindle assembly checkpoint and, recently, with chemical inhibitors of the APC/C. While most cells arrested in mitosis for prolonged periods undergo apoptosis, others skip cytokinesis and enter G1 with unsegregated chromosomes. This process, known as mitotic slippage, generates aneuploidy and increases genomic instability in the cancer cell. Here, we analyze the behavior of fission yeast cells arrested in mitosis through the transcriptional silencing of the Cdc20 homolog slp1. While depletion of slp1 readily halts cells in metaphase, this arrest is only transient and a majority of cells eventually undergo cytokinesis and show steady mitotic dephosphorylation. Notably, this occurs in the absence of Cyclin B (Cdc13) degradation. We investigate the involvement of phosphatase activity in these events and demonstrate that PP2A-B55(Pab1) is required to prevent septation and, during the arrest, its CDK-mediated inhibition facilitates the induction of cytokinesis. In contrast, deletion of PP2A-B56(Par1) completely abrogates septation. We show that this effect is partly due to this mutant entering mitosis with reduced CDK activity. Interestingly, both PP2A-B55(Pab1) and PP2A-B56(Par1), as well as Clp1 (the homolog of the budding yeast mitotic phosphatase Cdc14) are required for the dephosphorylation of mitotic substrates during the escape. Finally, we show that the mitotic transcriptional wave controlled by the RFX transcription factor Sak1 facilitates the induction of cytokinesis and also requires the activity of PP2A-B56(Par1) in a mechanism independent of CDK.
PXD028659	35923910	The Analysis of the Ubiquitylomic Responses to Streptococcus agalactiae Infection in Bovine Mammary Gland Epithelial Cells. 	Ubiquitination regulation of streptococcus agalactiae infection in dairy cow mammary epithelial cells	Streptococcus agalactiae, Ubiquitination, bovine mammary epithelial cells, potential biomarkers, proteomic analysis	Purpose: Streptococcus agalactiae is one of the primary pathogens responsible for subclinical mastitis, a significant economic burden for dairy farms. An essential component of the immune response to infection is ubiquitination, which plays important roles in the complex interactions between the pathogen and host. Materials and Methods: In the present study, quantitative ubiquitylomics was performed to profile changes in the global ubiquitinome of bovine mammary gland epithelial cells (BMECs) infected with S. agalactiae. Results: The most notable changes in the BMEC ubiquitinome were related to the adherens junction, ribosome, and tight junction pathways. Ubiquitination of CTNNB1, EGFR, ITGB1, CTNNA1, CTNNA2, CDH1, YES1, and SLC9A3R1 appears to be fundamental for regulating multiple cellular processes in BMECs in response to S. agalactiae infection. In addition, broad ubiquitination of various effectors and outer membrane proteins was observed. Ubiquitinated proteins in S. agalactiae-infected BMECs were associated with regulating cell junctions in the host, with potential implications for susceptibility to infection. Conclusion: The preliminary findings suggest that extensive ubiquitination of CTNNB1, CDH1 and SLC9A3R1 and proteins closely related to cell junctions might play an important role in mastitis progression in dairy cows. The results provide evidence that ubiquitin modification of certain proteins in S. agalactiae-infected BMECs could be a promising therapeutic strategy for reducing mammary gland injury and mastitis.
PXD031470	35926154	Proteomics and Biochemical Analyses of Secreted Proteins Revealed a Novel Mechanism by Which ADAM12S Regulates the Migration of Gastric Cancer Cells. 	SPECS and proteomics analysis of secreted glycosylated proteins regulated by ADAM12S	ADAM12S, SPECS, secreted glycosylated proteins	Gastric cancer is one of the cancers with the highest morbidity and mortality. Although several therapeutic approaches have been developed to treat this disease, the overall survival rate is still very low due to metastasis, drug resistance, and so forth. Therefore, it is necessary to discover new regulatory molecules and signaling pathways that modulate the metastasis of gastric cancer cells. A Disintegrin And Metalloprotease 12 (ADAM12) was highly expressed in gastric cancer tissues and presented in the patient urine. However, it is unclear whether and how ADAM12 regulates the migration of gastric cancer cells. In this work, we used the secretome protein enrichment with click sugars (SPECS) method to purify the secreted glycosylated proteins and performed quantitative proteomics to identify the secreted proteins that were differentially regulated by ADAM12S, the short and secreted form of ADAM12. Our proteomic and biochemical analyses revealed that ADAM12S upregulated the cell surface glycoprotein CD146, a cell adhesion molecule and melanoma marker, which was dependent on the catalytic residue of ADAM12S. Furthermore, we discovered that the ADAM12S-enhanced migration of gastric cancer cells was, at least partially, mediated by CD146. This work may help to evaluate whether ADAM12 could be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of gastric cancer patients.
PXD035142	35926457	Human UFSP1 is an active protease that regulates UFM1 maturation and UFMylation. 	Human UFSP1 is an active protease that regulates UFM1 maturation and UFMylation	Cysteine Protease, Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER), Ribosome, UFM1, ubiquitin like modifier	An essential first step in the post-translational modification of proteins with UFM1, UFMylation, is the proteolytic cleavage of pro-UFM1 to expose a C-terminal glycine. Of the two UFM1-specific proteases (UFSPs) identified in humans, only UFSP2 is reported to be active, since the annotated sequence of UFSP1 lacks critical catalytic residues. Nonetheless, efficient UFM1 maturation occurs in cells lacking UFSP2, suggesting the presence of another active protease. We herein identify UFSP1 translated from a non-canonical start site to be this protease. Cells lacking both UFSPs show complete loss of UFMylation resulting from an absence of mature UFM1. While UFSP2, but not UFSP1, removes UFM1 from the ribosomal subunit RPL26, UFSP1 acts earlier in the pathway to mature UFM1 and cleave a potential autoinhibitory modification on UFC1, thereby controlling activation of UFMylation. In summary, our studies reveal important distinctions in substrate specificity and localization-dependent functions for the two proteases in regulating UFMylation.
PXD032990	35926709	Induction of zinc finger protein RNF6 auto-ubiquitination for the treatment of myeloma and chronic myeloid leukemia. 	Identification of the ring Finger protein 6 (RNF6)-interacting proteins	HEK293T cells, LC/MS/MS, RNF6	The zinc finger ubiquitin ligase RNF6 has been proposed as a potential therapeutic target in several cancers, but understanding its molecular mechanism of degradation has been elusive. In the present study, we find that RNF6 is degraded via auto-ubiquitination in a manner dependent on its Really Interesting New Gene (RING) domain. We determine that when the RING domain is deleted (DeltaRING) or the core cysteine residues in the zinc finger are mutated (C632S/C635S), the WT protein, but not the DeltaRING or mutant RNF6 protein, undergoes polyubiquitination. We also identify USP7 as a deubiquitinase of RNF6 by tandem mass spectrometry. We show that USP7 interacts with RNF6 and abolishes its K48-linked polyubiquitination, thereby preventing its degradation. In contrast, we found a USP7-specific inhibitor promotes RNF6 polyubiquitination, degradation, and cell death. Furthermore, we demonstrate the anti-leukemic drug Nilotinib and anti-myeloma drug Panobinostat (LBH589) induce RNF6 K48-linked polyubiquitination and degradation in both multiple myeloma (MM) and leukemia cells. In agreement with our hypothesis on the mode of RNF6 degradation, we show these drugs promote RNF6 auto-ubiquitination in an in vitro ubiquitination system without other E3 ligases. Consistently, reexpression of RNF6 ablates drug-induced MM and leukemia cell apoptosis. Therefore, our results reveal that RNF6 is a RING E3 ligase that undergoes auto-ubiquitination, which could be abolished by USP7 and induced by anti-cancer drugs. We propose that chemical induction of RNF6 auto-ubiquitination and degradation could be a novel strategy for the treatment of hematological malignancies including MM and leukemia.
PXD036706	35926710	Whole cell response to receptor stimulation involves many deep and distributed subcellular biochemical processes. 	Metadata Entered in Submitting Proteomic Data to PRIDE	Bioinformatics, dynamical modeling, neurite outgrowth, subcellular pathways, systems biology, transcriptomics	Neurite outgrowth is an integrated whole cell response triggered by the cannabinoid-1 receptor. We sought to identify the many different biochemical pathways that contribute to this whole cell response. To understand underlying mechanisms, we identified subcellular processes (SCPs) composed of one or more biochemical pathways and their interactions required for this response. Differentially expressed genes and proteins were obtained from bulk transcriptomics and proteomic analysis of extracts from cells stimulated with a cannabinoid-1 receptor agonist. We used these differentially expressed genes and proteins to build networks of interacting SCPs by combining the expression data with prior pathway knowledge. From these SCP networks, we identified additional genes that when ablated, experimentally validated the SCP involvement in neurite outgrowth. Our experiments and informatics modeling allowed us to identify diverse SCPs such as those involved in pyrimidine metabolism, lipid biosynthesis, and mRNA splicing and stability, along with more predictable SCPs such as membrane vesicle transport and microtubule dynamics. We find that SCPs required for neurite outgrowth are widely distributed among many biochemical pathways required for constitutive cellular functions, several of which are termed 'deep', since they are distal to signaling pathways and the key SCPs directly involved in extension of the neurite. In contrast, 'proximal' SCPs are involved in microtubule growth and membrane vesicle transport dynamics required for neurite outgrowth. From these bioinformatics and dynamical models based on experimental data, we conclude that receptor-mediated regulation of subcellular functions for neurite outgrowth is both distributed, that is, involves many different biochemical pathways, and deep.
PXD027037	35926874	Ubiquitome profiling reveals a regulatory pattern of UPL3 with UBP12 on metabolic-leaf senescence. 	Ubiquitome profiling reveals metabolism related cell senescence and protein translation modified by UPL3	DUBs, HECT-type ubiquitin ligase, carbon fixation, histone, senescence	The HECT-type UPL3 ligase plays critical roles in plant development and stress protection, but understanding of its regulation remains limited. Here, the multi-omics analyses of ubiquitinated proteins in &lt;i&gt;upl3&lt;/i&gt; mutants were performed. A landscape of UPL3-dependent ubiquitinated proteins is constructed: Preferential ubiquitination of proteins related to carbon fixation represented the largest set of proteins with increased ubiquitination in the &lt;i&gt;upl3&lt;/i&gt; plant, including most of carbohydrate metabolic enzymes, BRM, and variant histone, whereas a small set of proteins with reduced ubiquitination caused by the &lt;i&gt;upl3&lt;/i&gt; mutation were linked to cysteine/methionine synthesis, as well as hexokinase 1 (HXK1) and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase 2 (PPC2). Notably, ubiquitin hydrolase 12 (UBP12), BRM, HXK1, and PPC2 were identified as the UPL3-interacting partners in vivo and in vitro. Characterization of &lt;i&gt;brm&lt;/i&gt;, &lt;i&gt;upl3&lt;/i&gt;, &lt;i&gt;ppc2&lt;/i&gt;, &lt;i&gt;gin2&lt;/i&gt;, and &lt;i&gt;ubp12&lt;/i&gt; mutant plants and proteomic and transcriptomic analysis suggested that UPL3 fine-tunes carbohydrate metabolism, mediating cellular senescence by interacting with UBP12, BRM, HXK1, and PPC2. Our results highlight a regulatory pattern of UPL3 with UBP12 as a hub of regulator on proteolysis-independent regulation and proteolysis-dependent degradation.
PXD032977	35926881	Yeast ORC sumoylation status fine-tunes origin licensing. 	Yeast ORC sumoylation status fine-tunes origin activity	Orc2, SUMO	Sumoylation is emerging as a posttranslation modification important for regulating chromosome duplication and stability. The origin recognition complex (ORC) that directs DNA replication initiation by loading the MCM replicative helicase onto origins is sumoylated in both yeast and human cells. However, the biological consequences of ORC sumoylation are unclear. Here we report the effects of hypersumoylation and hyposumoylation of yeast ORC on ORC activity and origin function using multiple approaches. ORC hypersumoylation preferentially reduced the function of a subset of early origins, while Orc2 hyposumoylation had an opposing effect. Mechanistically, ORC hypersumoylation reduced MCM loading in vitro and diminished MCM chromatin association in vivo. Either hypersumoylation or hyposumoylation of ORC resulted in genome instability and the dependence of yeast on other genome maintenance factors, providing evidence that appropriate ORC sumoylation levels are important for cell fitness. Thus, yeast ORC sumoylation status must be properly controlled to achieve optimal origin function across the genome and genome stability.
PXD030022	35926947	Functional coupling of organic anion transporter OAT10 (SLC22A13) and monocarboxylate transporter MCT1 (SLC16A1) influencing the transport function of OAT10. 	TMT-10plex analysis of endogenous proteins expressed in HEK-293 cells as a recombinant transporter assay system	HEK-293 cells, endogenous protein expression, transporter assay system	OAT10 (SLC22A13) is a transporter highly expressed in renal tubules and transporting organic anions including nicotinate, beta-hydroxybutyrate, p-aminohippurate, and orotate. In transport assays using Xenopus oocytes and HEK293 cells, we found that apparent substrate selectivity of OAT10 was different between the expression systems, particularly less pronounced uptake of beta-hydroxybutyrate in HEK293 cells. Because functional coupling between transporters may interfere with functional properties of the transporter, we searched for endogenous transporters in HEK293 cells that could affect OAT10. By means of comprehensive approach with co-immunoprecipitation followed by LC-MS/MS analysis, we identified monocarboxylate transporter MCT1 (SLC16A1) as physically coupled with OAT10. The knockdown of MCT1 in OAT10-expressing HEK293 cells increased the uptake of beta-hydroxybutyrate and nicotinate, common substrates of OAT10 and MCT1, whereas the uptake of orotate, a substrate of only OAT10, was not affected. MCT1 is supposed to act as an escape route and mediate the efflux of nicotinate and beta-hydroxybutyrate taken up by OAT10 localized nearby MCT1, as suggested by co-immunoprecipitation. This functional coupling would explain altered apparent substrate selectivity in HEK293 cells compared with Xenopus oocytes. The findings in this study warn in transporter studies that the expression system can interfere with assessing correct transport properties due to unexpected interactions with endogenous transporters.
PXD034266	35927239	CRMP2 derived from cancer associated fibroblasts facilitates progression of ovarian cancer via HIF-1alpha-glycolysis signaling pathway. 	CRMP2 derived from cancer associated fibroblasts facilitates progression of ovarian cancer via HIF-1alpha-glycolysis signaling pathway	Cancer associated fibroblasts (CAFs), Ovarian cancer., Tumor microenvironment (TME)	As the predominant stroma cells of tumor microenvironment (TME), cancer associated fibroblasts (CAFs) are robust tumor player of different malignancies. However, less is known about the regulatory mechanism of CAFs on promoting progression of ovarian cancer (OvCA). In the present study, the conditioned medium of primary CAFs (CAF-CM) from OvCA was used to culture cell lines of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC), and showed a potent role in promoting proliferation, migration and invasion of cancer cells. Mass spectrum (MS) analysis identified that Collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP2), a microtubule-associated protein involved in diverse malignancies, derived from CAFs was a key regulator responsible for mediating these cell events of OvCA. In vitro study using recombinant CRMP2 (r-CRMP2) revealed that the protein promoted proliferation, invasion, and migration of OvCA cells through activation of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1alpha-glycolysis signaling pathway. The CRMP2 was abundantly expressed in OvCA, with a well correlation with metastasis and poor prognosis, as analyzed from 118 patients' samples. Inhibition of the CRMP2 derived from CAFs by neutralizing antibodies significantly attenuated the tumor size, weights, and metastatic foci numbers of mice in vivo. Our finding has provided a novel therapeutic clue for OvCA based on TME.
PXD026698	35927244	Synaptotagmin-13 orchestrates pancreatic endocrine cell egression and islet morphogenesis. 	Synaptotagmin 13 drives pancreatic endocrine cell egression and islet morphogenesis: Affinity purification	Synaptotagmin 13, affinity purification, protein complexes	During pancreas development endocrine cells leave the ductal epithelium to form the islets of Langerhans, but the morphogenetic mechanisms are incompletely understood. Here, we identify the Ca(2+)-independent atypical Synaptotagmin-13 (Syt13) as a key regulator of endocrine cell egression and islet formation. We detect specific upregulation of the Syt13 gene and encoded protein in endocrine precursors and the respective lineage during islet formation. The Syt13 protein is localized to the apical membrane of endocrine precursors and to the front domain of egressing endocrine cells, marking a previously unidentified apical-basal to front-rear repolarization during endocrine precursor cell egression. Knockout of Syt13 impairs endocrine cell egression and skews the alpha-to-beta-cell ratio. Mechanistically, Syt13 is a vesicle trafficking protein, transported via the microtubule cytoskeleton, and interacts with phosphatidylinositol phospholipids for polarized localization. By internalizing a subset of plasma membrane proteins at the front domain, including alpha6beta4 integrins, Syt13 modulates cell-matrix adhesion and allows efficient endocrine cell egression. Altogether, these findings uncover an unexpected role for Syt13 as a morphogenetic driver of endocrinogenesis and islet formation.
PXD035172	35927261	Maturation and substrate processing topography of the Plasmodium falciparum invasion/egress protease plasmepsin X. 	Plasmodium falciparum PM X LC-MSMS	Malaria, Plasmepsin X, Plasmodium	The malaria parasite Plasmodium invades a host erythrocyte, multiplies within a parasitophorous vacuole (PV) and then ruptures the PV and erythrocyte membranes in a process known as egress. Both egress and invasion are controlled by effector proteins discharged from specialized secretory organelles. The aspartic protease plasmepsin X (PM X) regulates activity for many of these effectors, but it is unclear how PM X accesses its diverse substrates that reside in different organelles. PM X also autoprocesses to generate different isoforms. The function of this processing is not understood. We have mapped the self-cleavage sites and have constructed parasites with cleavage site mutations. Surprisingly, a quadruple mutant that remains full-length retains in vitro activity, is trafficked normally, and supports normal egress, invasion and parasite growth. The N-terminal half of the prodomain stays bound to the catalytic domain even after processing and is required for proper intracellular trafficking of PM X. We find that this enzyme cleaves microneme and exoneme substrates before discharge, while the rhoptry substrates that are dependent on PM X activity are cleaved after exoneme discharge into the PV. The data give insight into the temporal, spatial and biochemical control of this unusual but important aspartic protease.
PXD028562	35927299	Simultaneous monitoring of eight human respiratory viruses including SARS-CoV-2 using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. 	LC-MS/MS Analysis of Respiratory Viruses	Culture, SARS-CoV-2	Diagnosis of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection has primarily been achieved using reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for acute infection, and serology for prior infection. Assay with RT-PCR provides data on presence or absence of viral RNA, with no information on virus replication competence, infectivity, or virus characterisation. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) is typically not used in clinical virology, despite its potential to provide supplemental data about the presence of viral proteins and thus the potential for replication-competent, transmissible virus. Using the SARS-CoV-2 as a model virus, we developed a fast 'bottom-up' proteomics workflow for discovery of target virus peptides using 'serum-free' culture conditions, providing high coverage of viral proteins without the need for protein or peptide fractionation techniques. This workflow was then applied to Coronaviruses OC43 and 229E, Influenza A/H1N1 and H3N2, Influenza B, and Respiratory Syncytial Viruses A and B. Finally, we created an LC-MS/MS method for targeted detection of the eight-virus panel in clinical specimens, successfully detecting peptides from the SARS-CoV-2 ORF9B and nucleoprotein in RT-PCR positive samples. The method provides specific detection of respiratory viruses from clinical samples containing moderate viral loads and is an important further step to the use of LC-MS/MS in diagnosis of viral infection.
PXD031293	35928150	Identification of cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4 isoform 1 as a positive regulator of influenza virus replication. 	Suppression of cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4 isoform 1 expression inhibits replication of highly pathogenic H5N1 influenza virus	Amaryllidaceae plants, Anti-influenza, COX41, Highly pathogenic H5N1 influenza virus, Lycorine, Viral ribonucleoproteins export	Human infection with highly pathogenic H5N1 influenza virus causes severe respiratory diseases. Currently, the drugs against H5N1 are limited to virus-targeted inhibitors. However, drug resistance caused by these inhibitors is becoming a serious threat to global public health. An alternative strategy to reduce the resistance risk is to develop antiviral drugs targeting host cell proteins. In this study, we demonstrated that cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4 isoform 1 (COX41) of host cell plays an important role in H5N1 infection. Overexpression of COX41 promoted viral replication, which was inhibited by silencing or knockout the expression of COX41 in the host cell. The ribonucleoproteins (RNPs) of H5N1 were retained in the cell nucleus after knockout cellular COX41. Strikingly, inhibition of cellular COX41 by lycorine, a small-molecule compound isolated from Amaryllidaceae plants, reduced the levels of COX41-induced ROS and phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) in cells, thus resulting in the blockage of nuclear export of vRNP and inhibition of viral replication. In H5N1-infected mice that were treated with lycorine, we observed a reduction of viral titers and inhibition of pathological changes in the lung and trachea tissues. Importantly, no resistant virus was generated after culturing the virus with the continuous treatment of lycorine. Collectively, these findings suggest that COX41 is a positive regulator of H5N1 replication and might serve as an alternative target for anti-influenza drug development.
PXD032714	35928258	Proteomics and Metabolomics Unveil Codonopsis pilosula (Franch.) Nannf. Ameliorates Gastric Precancerous Lesions via Regulating Energy Metabolism. 	Proteomics and Metabolomics unveils Codonopsis Radix ameliorates Gastric Precancerous Lesions via regulating energy metabolism	Codonopsis Radix, energy metabolism, gastric precancerous lesions, metabolomics, serum pharmacology	Objective: This study aimed to systematically evaluate the efficacy of Codonopsis pilosula (Franch.) Nannf. (Codonopsis Radix, CR) and reveal the mechanism of its effects on suppressing Gastric Precancerous Lesions. Methods: First, we established the GPL rat model which was induced by N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine, a disordered diet, and 40% ethanol. The CR's anti-Gastric Precancerous Lesions effect was comprehensively evaluated by body weight, pathological section, and serum biochemical indexes. Then, quantitative proteomics and metabolomics were conducted to unveil the disturbed protein-network and pharmacodynamic mechanism. Furthermore, serum pharmacology was employed to confirm that CR's anti-gastritis and anti-cancer phenotype in cell models. Results: In animal models, CR had been shown to control inflammation and ameliorate Gastric Precancerous Lesions. Considering the combination of proteomics and metabolomics, we found that CR could significantly reverse the biological pathways related to energy metabolism which were disturbed by the Gastric Precancerous Lesions model. Furthermore, the results of serum pharmacology indicated that the Codonopsis Radix containing serum could ameliorate gastritis injury and selectively inhibit the proliferation of gastric cancer cells rather than normal cells, which was closely related to ATP production in the above mentioned cells. Conclusion: In summary, CR exerted anti-Gastric Precancerous Lesions effects by ameliorating gastritis injury and selectively inhibiting the proliferation of gastric cancer cells rather than normal cells. Proteomics and metabolomics unveiled that its efficacy was closely related to its regulation of the energy-metabolism pathway. This research not only provided new ideas for exploring the mechanism of complex systems such as Chinese herbals but also benefited the treatment strategy of Gastric Precancerous Lesions via regulating energy metabolism.
PXD032226	35928708	A Phosphoproteomics Study of the Soybean root necrosis 1 Mutant Revealed Type II Metacaspases Involved in Cell Death Pathway. 	TMT6plex and phosphorylation analysis	TMT6Pplex, phosphorylation	The soybean root necrosis 1 (rn1) mutation causes progressive browning of the roots soon after germination and provides increased tolerance to the soil-borne oomycete pathogen Phytophthora sojae in soybean. Toward understanding the molecular basis of the rn1 mutant phenotypes, we conducted tandem mass tag (TMT)-labeling proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses of the root tissues of the rn1 mutant and progenitor T322 line to identify potential proteins involved in manifestation of the mutant phenotype. We identified 3,160 proteins. When the p-value was set at <=0.05 and the fold change of protein accumulation between rn1 and T322 at >=1.5 or <=0.67, we detected 118 proteins that showed increased levels and 32 proteins decreased levels in rn1 as compared to that in T322. The differentially accumulated proteins (DAPs) are involved in several pathways including cellular processes for processing environmental and genetic information, metabolism and organismal systems. Five pathogenesis-related proteins were accumulated to higher levels in the mutant as compared to that in T322. Several of the DAPs are involved in hormone signaling, redox reaction, signal transduction, and cell wall modification processes activated in plant-pathogen interactions. The phosphoproteomics analysis identified 22 phosphopeptides, the levels of phosphorylation of which were significantly different between rn1 and T322 lines. The phosphorylation levels of two type II metacaspases were reduced in rn1 as compared to T322. Type II metacaspase has been shown to be a negative regulator of hypersensitive cell death. In absence of the functional Rn1 protein, two type II metacaspases exhibited reduced phosphorylation levels and failed to show negative regulatory cell death function in the soybean rn1 mutant. We hypothesize that Rn1 directly or indirectly phosphorylates type II metacaspases to negatively regulate the cell death process in soybean roots.
PXD032089	35930080	Global phosphoproteomic analysis identified key kinases regulating male meiosis in mouse. 	Global phosphoproteomic analysis of mouse spermatocytes identified key kinases regulating meiosis	Haspin, kinase, meiosis, phosphoproteome, spermatocyte	Meiosis, a highly conserved process in organisms from fungi to mammals, is subjected to protein phosphorylation regulation. Due to the low abundance of phosphorylation, there is a lack of systemic characterization of phosphorylation regulation of meiosis in mammals. Using the phosphoproteomic approach, we profiled large-scale phosphoproteome of purified primary spermatocytes undergoing meiosis I, and identified 14,660 phosphorylation sites in 4419 phosphoproteins. Kinase-substrate phosphorylation network analysis followed by in vitro meiosis study showed that CDK9 was essential for meiosis progression to metaphase I and had enriched substrate phosphorylation sites in proteins involved in meiotic cell cycle. In addition, histones and epigenetic factors were found to be widely phosphorylated. Among those, HASPIN was found to be essential for male fertility. Haspin knockout led to misalignment of chromosomes, apoptosis of metaphase spermatocytes and a decreased number of sperm by deregulation of H3T3ph, chromosomal passenger complex (CPC) and spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC). The complicated protein phosphorylation and its important regulatory functions in meiosis indicated that in-depth studies of phosphorylation-mediated signaling could help us elucidate the mechanisms of meiosis.
PXD033719	35930447	Proteogenomics reveals sex-biased aging genes and coordinated splicing in cardiac aging. 	Effects of age and sex on protein abundance in the mouse heart	TMT, aging, heart, sex difference	The risks of heart diseases are significantly modulated by age and sex, but how these factors influence baseline cardiac gene expression remains incompletely understood. Here, we used RNA sequencing and mass spectrometry to compare gene expression in female and male young adult (4 mo) and early aging (20 mo) mouse hearts, identifying thousands of age- and sex-dependent gene expression signatures. Sexually dimorphic cardiac genes are broadly distributed, functioning in mitochondrial metabolism, translation, and other processes. In parallel, we found over 800 genes with differential aging response between male and female, including genes in cAMP and PKA signaling. Analysis of the sex-adjusted aging cardiac transcriptome revealed a widespread remodeling of exon usage patterns that is largely independent from differential gene expression, concomitant with upstream changes in RNA-binding protein and splice factor transcripts. To evaluate the impact of the splicing events on cardiac proteoform composition, we applied an RNA-guided proteomics computational pipeline to analyze the mass spectrometry data and detected hundreds of putative splice variant proteins that have the potential to rewire the cardiac proteome. Taken together, the results here suggest that cardiac aging is associated with 1) widespread sex-biased aging genes and 2) a rewiring of RNA splicing programs, including sex- and age-dependent changes in exon usages and splice patterns that have the potential to influence cardiac protein structure and function. These changes contribute to the emerging evidence for considerable sexual dimorphism in the cardiac aging process that should be considered in the search for disease mechanisms.NEW & NOTEWORTHY Han et al. used proteogenomics to compare male and female mouse hearts at 4 and 20 mo. Sex-biased cardiac genes function in mitochondrial metabolism, translation, autophagy, and other processes. Hundreds of cardiac genes show sex-by-age interactions, that is, sex-biased aging genes. Cardiac aging is accompanied with a remodeling of exon usage in functionally coordinated genes, concomitant with differential expression of RNA-binding proteins and splice factors. These features represent an underinvestigated aspect of cardiac aging that may be relevant to the search for disease mechanisms.
PXD035105	35931083	PEX5 translocation into and out of peroxisomes drives matrix protein import. 	Proteomic analysis of peroxisome-associated PEX5 mutants in Xenopus egg extract.	PEX5, peroxisome	Peroxisomes are ubiquitous organelles whose dysfunction causes fatal human diseases. Most peroxisomal enzymes are imported from the cytosol by the receptor PEX5, which interacts with a docking complex in the peroxisomal membrane and then returns to the cytosol after monoubiquitination by a membrane-embedded ubiquitin ligase. The mechanism by which PEX5 shuttles between cytosol and peroxisomes and releases cargo inside the lumen is unclear. Here, we use Xenopus egg extract to demonstrate that PEX5 accompanies cargo completely into the lumen, utilizing WxxxF/Y motifs near its N terminus that bind a lumenal domain of the docking complex. PEX5 recycling is initiated by an amphipathic helix that binds to the lumenal side of the ubiquitin ligase. The N terminus then emerges in the cytosol for monoubiquitination. Finally, PEX5 is extracted from the lumen, resulting in the unfolding of the receptor and cargo release. Our results reveal the unique mechanism by which PEX5 ferries proteins into peroxisomes.
PXD031508	35931112	Dynamics of integrin alpha5beta1, fibronectin, and their complex reveal sites of interaction and conformational change. 	Dynamics of integrin alpha5beta1, fibronectin, and their complex	Integrin, affinity, conformational change, fibronectin, hydrogen deuterium exchange, thermal stability	Integrin alpha5beta1 mediates cell adhesion to the extracellular matrix by binding fibronectin (Fn). Selectivity for Fn by alpha5beta1 is achieved through recognition of an RGD motif in the 10th type III Fn domain (Fn10) and the synergy site in the ninth type III Fn domain (Fn9). However, details of the interaction dynamics are unknown. Here, we compared synergy-site and Fn-truncation mutations for their alpha5beta1-binding affinities and stabilities. We also interrogated binding of the alpha5beta1 ectodomain headpiece fragment to Fn using hydrogen-deuterium exchange (HDX) mass spectrometry to probe binding sites and sites of integrin conformational change. Our results suggest the synergistic effect of Fn9 requires both specific residues and a folded domain. We found some residues considered important for synergy are required for stability. Additionally, we show decreases in fibronectin HDX are localized to a synergy peptide containing contacting residues in two beta-strands, an intervening loop in Fn9, and the RGD-containing loop in Fn10, indicative of binding sites. We also identified binding sites in the alpha5-subunit beta-propeller domain for the Fn9 synergy site and in the beta1-subunit betaI domain for Fn10 based on decreases in alpha5beta1 HDX. Interestingly, the dominant effect of Fn binding was an increase in alpha5beta1 deuterium exchange distributed over multiple sites that undergo changes in conformation or solvent accessibility and appear to be sites where energy is stored in the higher-energy, open-integrin conformation. Together, our results highlight regions important for alpha5beta1 binding to Fn and dynamics associated with this interaction.
PXD031095	35931119	O-GlcNAcylation stabilizes the autophagy-initiating kinase ULK1 by inhibiting chaperone-mediated autophagy upon HPV infection. 	O-GlcNAcylation stabilizes ULK1 by inhibiting chaperone-mediated autophagy upon HPV infection	Chaperone-mediated autophagy, HNSCC, HPV, Macroautophagy, O-GlcNAc, ULK1	Human papillomaviruses (HPVs) cause a subset of head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCCs). Previously, we demonstrated that HPV16 oncogene E6 or E6/E7 transduction increases the abundance of O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) transferase (OGT), but OGT substrates affected by this increase are unclear. Here, we focus on the effects of O-GlcNAcylation on HPV-positive HNSCCs. We found that upon HPV infection, Unc-51-like kinase 1 (ULK1), an autophagy-initiating kinase, is hyper-O-GlcNAcylated, stabilized, and linked with autophagy elevation. Through mass spectrometry, we identified that ULK1 is O-GlcNAcylated at Ser409, which is distinct from the previously reported Thr635/Thr754 sites. It has been demonstrated that PKCalpha mediates phosphorylation of ULK1 at Ser423, which attenuates its stability by shunting ULK1 to the chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) pathway. Using biochemical assays, we demonstrate that ULK1 Ser409Ser410 O-GlcNAcylation antagonizes its phosphorylation at Ser423. Moreover, mutations of Ser409A and its neighboring site Ser410A (2A) render ULK1 less stable by promoting interaction with the CMA chaperone HSC70 (heat shock cognate 70 kDa protein). Furthermore, ULK1-2A mutants attenuate the association of ULK1 with STX17, which is vital for the fusion between autophagosomes and lysosomes. Analysis of The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) database reveals that ULK1 is upregulated in HPV-positive HNSCCs, and its level positively correlates with HNSCC patient survival. Overall, our work demonstrates that O-GlcNAcylation of ULK1 is altered in response to environmental changes. O-GlcNAcylation of ULK1 at Ser409 and perhaps Ser410 stabilizes ULK1, which might underlie the molecular mechanism of HPV-positive HNSCC patient survival.
PXD027959	35931319	Early Prediction of COVID-19 Patient Survival by Targeted Plasma Multi-Omics and Machine Learning. 	Targeted MS based multi-omic analysis of blood plasma from COVID-19 patients to predict survival	COVID-19, MRM, SARS COV 2, internal standards, plasma	The recent surge of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) hospitalizations severely challenges healthcare systems around the globe and has increased the demand for reliable tests predictive of disease severity and mortality. Using multiplexed targeted mass spectrometry assays on a robust triple quadrupole MS setup which is available in many clinical laboratories, we determined the precise concentrations of hundreds of proteins and metabolites in plasma from hospitalized COVID-19 patients. We observed a clear distinction between COVID-19 patients and controls and, strikingly, a significant difference between survivors and nonsurvivors. With increasing length of hospitalization, the survivors' samples showed a trend toward normal concentrations, indicating a potential sensitive readout of treatment success. Building a machine learning multi-omic model that considers the concentrations of 10 proteins and five metabolites, we could predict patient survival with 92% accuracy (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve: 0.97) on the day of hospitalization. Hence, our standardized assays represent a unique opportunity for the early stratification of hospitalized COVID-19 patients.
PXD031851	35931320	Quantitative Acetylomics Reveals Dynamics of Protein Lysine Acetylation in Mouse Livers During Aging and Upon the Treatment of Nicotinamide Mononucleotide. 	Quantitative acetylomics reveals dynamics of protein lysine acetylation in mouse livers during aging and upon the treatment of nicotinamide mononucleotide	NMN, acetylome, aging, liver	Lysine acetylation is a reversible and dynamic post-translational modification that plays vital roles in regulating multiple cellular processes including aging. However, acetylome-wide analysis in the aging process remains poorly studied in mammalian tissues. Nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)), a hub metabolite, benefits health span at least in part due to the activation of Sirtuins, a family of NAD(+)-consuming deacetylases, indicating changes in acetylome. Here, we combine two antibodies for the enrichment of acetylated peptides and perform label-free quantitative acetylomic analysis of mouse livers during natural aging and upon the treatment of beta-nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN), a NAD(+) booster. Our study describes previously unknown acetylation sites and reveals the acetylome-wide dynamics with age as well as upon the treatment of NMN. We discover protein acetylation events as potential aging biomarkers. We demonstrate that the life-beneficial effect of NMN could be partially reflected by the changes in age-related protein acetylation. Our quantitative assessment indicates that NMN has mild effects on acetylation sites previously reported as substrates of Sirtuins. Collectively, our data analyze protein acetylation with age, laying critical foundation for the functional study of protein post-translational modification essential for healthy aging and perhaps disease conditions.
PXD030645	35931778	High-throughput proteomic sample preparation using pressure cycling technology. 	High-throughput lysis and proteolytic digestion of tissues using pressure cycling technology for proteomics	PCT-LC/MS protocol	High-throughput lysis and proteolytic digestion of biopsy-level tissue specimens is a major bottleneck for clinical proteomics. Here we describe a detailed protocol of pressure cycling technology (PCT)-assisted sample preparation for proteomic analysis of biopsy tissues. A piece of fresh frozen or formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue weighing ~0.1-2 mg is placed in a 150 muL pressure-resistant tube called a PCT-MicroTube with proper lysis buffer. After closing with a PCT-MicroPestle, a batch of 16 PCT-MicroTubes are placed in a Barocycler, which imposes oscillating pressure to the samples from one atmosphere to up to ~3,000 times atmospheric pressure. The pressure cycling schemes are optimized for tissue lysis and protein digestion, and can be programmed in the Barocycler to allow reproducible, robust and efficient protein extraction and proteolysis digestion for mass spectrometry-based proteomics. This method allows effective preparation of not only fresh frozen and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue, but also cells, feces and tear strips. It takes ~3 h to process 16 samples in one batch. The resulting peptides can be analyzed by various mass spectrometry-based proteomics methods. We demonstrate the applications of this protocol with mouse kidney tissue and eight types of human tumors.
PXD024270	35932011	Phosphoproteome profiling of mouse liver during normal aging. 	Phosphoproteome profiling of mouse liver during normal aging	liver, normal aging, phosphorylation	BACKGROUND: Aging is a complex biological process accompanied by a time-dependent functional decline that affects most living organisms. Omics studies help to comprehensively understand the mechanism of aging and discover potential intervention methods. Old mice are frequently obese with a fatty liver. METHODS: We applied mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics to obtain a global phosphorylation profile of the liver in mice aged 2 or 18 months. MaxQuant was used for quantitative analysis and PCA was used for unsupervised clustering. RESULTS: Through phosphoproteome analysis, a total of 5,685 phosphosites in 2,335 proteins were filtered for quantitative analysis. PCA analysis of both the phosphoproteome and transcriptome data could distinguish young and old mice. However, from kinase prediction, kinase-substrate interaction analysis, and KEGG functional enrichment analysis done with phosphoproteome data, we observed high phosphorylation of fatty acid biosynthesis, beta-oxidation, and potential secretory processes, together with low phosphorylation of the Egfr-Sos1-Araf/Braf-Map2k1-Mapk1 pathway and Ctnnb1 during aging. Proteins with differentially expressed phosphosites seemed more directly related to the aging-associated fatty liver phenotype than the differentially expressed transcripts. The phosphoproteome may reveal distinctive biological functions that are lost in the transcriptome. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, we constructed a phosphorylation-associated network in the mouse liver during normal aging, which may help to discover novel antiaging strategies.
PXD034158	35932982	HTT-OMNI: A Web-based Platform for Huntingtin Interaction Exploration and Multi-omics Data Integration. 	HTT-OMNI: A Web-based Platform for Huntingtin Interaction Exploration and Multi-omics Data Integration	Computational tool, Huntingtons Disease, IP-MS, Protein interactions	Huntington's disease (HD) is a progressive neurological disorder that is caused by polyglutamine expansion of the huntingtin (HTT) protein. With the hope to uncover key modifiers of disease, a focus of the field of HD research has been on characterizing HTT-interacting proteins (HIPs) and the effect of the HTT polyglutamine expansion on the cellular omics landscape. However, while hundreds of studies have uncovered over 3000 potential HIPs to date, a means to interrogate these complementary interaction and omics datasets does not exist. The lack of a unified platform for exploring this breadth of potential HIPs and associated omics data represents a substantial barrier toward understanding the impact of HTT polyQ expansion and identifying interactions proximal to HD pathogenesis. Here, we describe the development of a web-based platform called HTT-OMNI (HTT OMics and Network Integration). This application facilitates the visualization and exploration of ~3400 potential HTT interactors (from the HINT database) and their associated polyQ-dependent omics measurements, such as transcriptome and proteome abundances. Additionally, HTT-OMNI allows for the integration of user-generated datasets with existing HIPs and omic measurements. We first demonstrate the utility of HTT-OMNI for filtering existing HTT PPIs based on a variety of experimental metadata parameters, highlighting its capacity to select for HIPs detected in specific model organisms and tissues. Next, we leverage our application to visualize the relationships between HTT PPIs, genetic disease modifiers, and their multiomic landscape. Finally, we generate and analyze a previously unreported dataset of HTT PPIs, aimed at defining tissue-specific HTT interactions and the polyQ-dependent modulation of their relative stabilities in the cortex and striatum of HD mouse models.
PXD033823	35933016	The ARSACS disease protein sacsin controls lysosomal positioning and reformation by regulating microtubule dynamics. 	Sacsin, the ARSACS disease protein, controls lysosomal positioning and reformation by regulating microtubule dynamics	ALR, Lysosome, Microtubule	Autosomal recessive spastic ataxia of Charlevoix-Saguenay is a fatal brain disorder featuring cerebellar neurodegeneration leading to spasticity and ataxia. This disease is caused by mutations in the SACS gene that encodes sacsin, a massive 4579-amino acid protein with multiple modular domains. However, molecular details of the function of sacsin are not clear. Here, using live cell imaging and biochemistry, we demonstrate that sacsin binds to microtubules and regulates microtubule dynamics. Loss of sacsin function in various cell types, including knockdown and KO primary neurons and patient fibroblasts, leads to alterations in lysosomal transport, positioning, function, and reformation following autophagy. Each of these phenotypic changes is consistent with altered microtubule dynamics. We further show the effects of sacsin are mediated at least in part through interactions with JIP3, an adapter for microtubule motors. These data reveal a new function for sacsin that explains its previously reported roles and phenotypes.
PXD033577	35933385	Adaptation on xylose improves glucose-xylose co-utilization and ethanol production in a carbon catabolite repression (CCR) compromised ethanologenic strain. 	Total proteome analysis of engineered/adapted E.coli strains with glucose/xylose co-utilization ability	Co-utilization, E.coli B, Orbitrap lumos, Sugar mixture	BACKGROUND: Sugar hydrolysates from lignocellulosic biomass are majorly composed of glucose and xylose that can be fermented to biofuels. Bacteria, despite having the natural ability to consume xylose are unable to consume it in presence of glucose due to a carbon catabolite repression (CCR) mechanism. This leads to overall reduced productivity as well as incomplete xylose utilization due to ethanol build-up from glucose utilization. In our effort to develop a strain for simultaneous fermentation of glucose and xylose into ethanol, we deleted ptsG in ethanologenic E. coli SSK42 to make it deficient in CCR and performed adaptive laboratory evolution to achieve accelerated growth rate, sugar consumption and ethanol production. Finally, we performed proteomics study to identify changes that might have been responsible for the observed improved phenotype of the evolved strain. RESULTS: The parental strain of SSK42, i.e., wild-type E. coli B, did not co-utilize glucose and xylose as expected. After deleting the ptsG gene encoding the EIIBC(Glc) subunit of PTS system, glucose consumption is severely affected in wild-type E. coli B. However, the ethanologenic, SSK42 strain, which was evolved in our earlier study on both glucose and xylose, didn't show such a drastic effect of EIIBC(Glc) deletion, instead consumed glucose first, followed by xylose without delay for switching from one sugar to another. To improve growth on xylose and co-utilization capabilities, the ptsG deleted SSK42 was evolved on xylose. The strain evolved for 78 generations, strain SCD78, displayed significant co-utilization of glucose and xylose sugars. At the bioreactor level, the strain SCD78 produced 3-times the ethanol titer of the parent strain with significant glucose-xylose co-utilization. The rate of glucose and xylose consumption also increased 3.4-fold and 3-fold, respectively. Proteome data indicates significant upregulation of TCA cycle proteins, respiration-related proteins, and some transporters, which may have a role in increasing the total sugar consumption and co-utilization of sugars. CONCLUSION: Through adaptive evolution, we have obtained a strain that has a significant glucose-xylose co-utilization phenotype with 3-fold higher total sugar consumption rate and ethanol production rate compared to the unevolved strain. This study also points out that adaptation on xylose is enough to impart glucose-xylose co-utilization property in CCR compromised ethanologenic strain SSK42.
PXD032876	35933466	Temporal profiling of the breast tumour microenvironment reveals collagen XII as a driver of metastasis. 	Temporal Profiling of PyMT Tumour Matrisome during Progression	Breast Cancer, Extracellular matrix, PyMT	The tumour stroma, and in particular the extracellular matrix (ECM), is a salient feature of solid tumours that plays a crucial role in shaping their progression. Many desmoplastic tumours including breast cancer involve the significant accumulation of type I collagen. However, recently it has become clear that the precise distribution and organisation of matrix molecules such as collagen I is equally as important in the tumour as their abundance. Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) coexist within breast cancer tissues and play both pro- and anti-tumourigenic roles through remodelling the ECM. Here, using temporal proteomic profiling of decellularized tumours, we interrogate the evolving matrisome during breast cancer progression. We identify 4 key matrisomal clusters, and pinpoint collagen type XII as a critical component that regulates collagen type I organisation. Through combining our proteomics with single-cell transcriptomics, and genetic manipulation models, we show how CAF-secreted collagen XII alters collagen I organisation to create a pro-invasive microenvironment supporting metastatic dissemination. Finally, we show in patient cohorts that collagen XII may represent an indicator of breast cancer patients at high risk of metastatic relapse.
PXD029650	35935594	Low molecular weight protein phosphatase APH mediates tyrosine dephosphorylation and ABA response in Arabidopsis. 	Involvement of low molecular weight tyrosine acid phosphatase in abscisic acid signaling in Arabidopsis	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Low molecular weight protein tyrosine phosphatase, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP), homolog, tyrosine phosphorylation	Low molecular weight protein tyrosine phosphatase (LWM-PTP), also known as acid phosphatase, is a highly conserved tyrosine phosphatase in living organisms. However, the function of LWM-PTP homolog has not been reported yet in plants. Here, we revealed a homolog of acid phosphatase, APH, in Arabidopsis plants, is a functional protein tyrosine phosphatase. The aph mutants are hyposensitive to ABA in post-germination growth. We performed an anti-phosphotyrosine antibody-based quantitative phosphoproteomics in wild-type and aph mutant and identified hundreds of putative targets of APH, including multiple splicing factors and other transcriptional regulators. Consistently, RNA-seq analysis revealed that the expression of ABA-highly-responsive genes is suppressed in aph mutants. Thus, APH regulates the ABA-responsive gene expressions by regulating the tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple splicing factors and other post-transcriptional regulators. We also revealed that Tyr383 in RAF9, a member of B2 and B3 RAF kinases that phosphorylate and activate SnRK2s in the ABA signaling pathway, is a direct target site of APH. Phosphorylation of Tyr383 is essential for RAF9 activity. Our results uncovered a crucial function of APH in ABA-induced tyrosine phosphorylation in Arabidopsis. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s44154-022-00041-6.
PXD035096	35936690	Serum Extracellular Vesicle Stratifin Is a Biomarker of Perineural Invasion in Patients With Colorectal Cancer and Predicts Worse Prognosis. 	Serum extracellular vesicle stratifin is a biomarker of perineural invasion in patients with colorectal cancer and predicts worse prognosis	Colorectal cancer, Epithelial-mesenchymal transition, Extracellular vesicles, perineural invasion	Previous studies have shown that the presence of perineural invasion (PNI) is associated with a significantly worse prognosis in colorectal cancer (CRC) patients. In this study, we performed a detailed analysis of the diversity of extracellular vesicles (EV) between NPNI (non-PNI) and PNI using quantitative proteomics and aim to investigate the mechanisms underlying PNI in colorectal cancer. Quantitative proteomics technology was used to identify the proteome of serum-purified EVs from CRC patients with and without PNI (PNI and non-PNI (NPNI) groups, respectively) and healthy volunteers. Mass spectrometry data were verified by ELISA and Western blot analyses. The proteomic profile of serum EVs from the PNI group differed from that of those in the NPNI group. Serum-derived EVs from the PNI promoted more significant cellular mobility than EVs derived from the NPNI group. EV stratifin (SFN) expression levels demonstrated an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve values of 0.84 for discriminating patients with PNI from NPNI patients. Moreover, EV SFN expression levels were an independent predictor of CRC prognosis. In this study, we identified SFN as a potential biomarker for the diagnosis of PNI in stage II CRC patients.
PXD033251	35938113	Formation and inhibition mechanism of novel angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitory peptides from Chouguiyu. 	Peptidome in Chouguiyu at different fermentation time	Chouguiyu, peptides	Angiotensin I converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory peptides from fermented foods exhibit great potential to alleviate hypertension. In this study, the peptide extract from Chouguiyu exhibited a good inhibition effect on ACE, and the inhibition rate was significantly enhanced after fermentation for 8 days. The ACE inhibitory peptides were further identified, followed by their inhibition and formation mechanisms using microbiome technology and molecular docking. A total of 356 ACE inhibitory peptides were predicted using in silico, and most ACE inhibitory peptides increased after fermentation. These peptides could be hydrolyzed from 94 kinds of precursor proteins, mainly including muscle-type creatine kinase, nebulin, and troponin I. P1 (VEIINARA), P2 (FAVMVKG), P4 (EITWSDDKK), P7 (DFDDIQK), P8 (IGDDPKF), P9 (INDDPKIL), and P10 (GVDNPGHPFI) were selected as the core ACE inhibitory peptides according to their abundance and docking energy. The salt bridge and conventional hydrogen bond connecting unsaturated oxygen atoms in the peptides contributed most to the ACE inhibition. The cleavage proteases from the microbial genera in Chouguiyu for preparing these 7 core ACE inhibitory peptides were further analyzed by hydrolysis prediction and Pearson's correlation. The correlation network showed that P7, P8, and P9 were mainly produced by the proteases from LAB including Lactococcus, Enterococcus, Vagococcus, Peptostreptococcus, and Streptococcus, while P1, P2, P4, and P10 were mainly Produced by Aeromonas, Bacillus, Escherichia, and Psychrobacter. This study is helpful in isolating the proteases and microbial strains to directionally produce the responding ACE inhibitory peptides.
PXD031472	35938169	Comprehensive Analysis of Quantitative Proteomics With DIA Mass Spectrometry and ceRNA Network in Intrahepatic Cholestasis of Pregnancy. 	Comprehensive Analysis of Quantitative Proteomics with DIA Mass Spectrometry and ceRNA Network in Intrahepatic Cholestasis of Pregnancy	Competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) Network, Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy, Quantitative proteomics, Target therapy	Background: Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP) is a pregnancy-specific complication characterized by pruritus without skin damage and jaundice. The poor perinatal outcomes include fetal distress, preterm birth, and unexpected intrauterine death. However, the mechanism of ICP leading to poor prognosis is still unclear. Methods: We analyzed 10 ICP and 10 normal placental specimens through quantitative proteomics of data-independent acquisition (DIA) to screen and identify differentially expressed proteins. GO, KEGG, COG/KOG, StringDB, InterProScan, Metascape, BioGPS, and NetworkAnalyst databases were used in this study. PITA, miRanda, TargetScan, starBase, and LncBase Predicted v.2 were used for constructing a competing endogenous RNA (ceRNA) network. Cytoscape was used for drawing regulatory networks, and cytoHubba was used for screening core nodes. The ICP rat models were used to validate the pathological mechanism. Results: GO, KEGG, and COG/KOG functional enrichment analysis results showed the differentially expressed proteins participated in autophagy, autophagosome formation, cofactor binding, JAK-STAT signaling pathway, and coenzyme transport and metabolism. DisGeNET analysis showed that these differentially expressed proteins were associated with red blood cell disorder and slow progression. We further analyzed first 12 proteins in the upregulated and downregulated differentially expressed proteins and incorporated clinicopathologic parameters. Our results showed HBG1, SPI1, HBG2, HBE1, FOXK1, KRT72, SLC13A3, MBD2, SP9, GPLD1, MYH7, and BLOC1S1 were associated with ICP development. ceRNA network analysis showed that MBD2, SPI1, FOXK1, and SLC13A3 were regulated by multiple miRNAs and lncRNAs. Conclusion: ICP was associated with autophagy. The ceRNA network of MBD2, SPI1, FOXK1, and SLC13A3 was involved in ICP progression, and these core proteins might be potential target.
PXD033169	35939567	Novel Diagnostic Biomarkers for High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer Uncovered by Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry. 	Novel Diagnostic Biomarkers for High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer Uncovered by Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry	data-independent acquisition, high-grade serous ovarian cancer, serum biomarker	High-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) represents the major histological type of ovarian cancer, and the lack of effective screening tools and early detection methods significantly contributes to the poor prognosis of HGSOC. Currently, there are no reliable diagnostic biomarkers for HGSOC. In this study, we performed liquid chromatography data-independent acquisition tandem mass spectrometry (MS) on depleted serum samples from 26 HGSOC cases and 24 healthy controls (HCs) to discover potential HGSOC diagnostic biomarkers. A total of 1,847 proteins were identified across all samples, among which 116 proteins showed differential expressions between HGSOC patients and HCs. Network modeling showed activations of coagulation and complement cascades, platelet activation and aggregation, neutrophil extracellular trap formation, toll-like receptor 4, insulin-like growth factor, and transforming growth factor beta signaling, as well as suppression of lipoprotein assembly and Fc gamma receptor activation in HGSOC. Based on the network model, we prioritized 28 biomarker candidates and validated 18 of them using targeted MS assays in an independent cohort. Predictive modeling showed a sensitivity of 1 and a specificity of 0.91 in the validation cohort. Finally, in vitro functional assays on four potential biomarkers (FGA, VWF, ARHGDIB, and SERPINF2) suggested that they may play an important role in cancer cell proliferation and migration in HGSOC. All raw data were deposited in PRIDE (PXD033169).
PXD034602	35939690	PTX3 structure determination using a hybrid cryoelectron microscopy and AlphaFold approach offers insights into ligand binding and complement activation. 	PTX3 structure determination using a hybrid cryo-electron microscopy and AlphaFold approach offers insights into ligand binding and complement activation	PTX3	Pattern recognition molecules (PRMs) form an important part of innate immunity, where they facilitate the response to infections and damage by triggering processes such as inflammation. The pentraxin family of soluble PRMs comprises long and short pentraxins, with the former containing unique N-terminal regions unrelated to other proteins or each other. No complete high-resolution structural information exists about long pentraxins, unlike the short pentraxins, where there is an abundance of both X-ray and cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM)-derived structures. This study presents a high-resolution structure of the prototypical long pentraxin, PTX3. Cryo-EM yielded a 2.5-Aa map of the C-terminal pentraxin domains that revealed a radically different quaternary structure compared to other pentraxins, comprising a glycosylated D4 symmetrical octameric complex stabilized by an extensive disulfide network. The cryo-EM map indicated alpha-helices that extended N terminal of the pentraxin domains that were not fully resolved. AlphaFold was used to predict the remaining N-terminal structure of the octameric PTX3 complex, revealing two long tetrameric coiled coils with two hinge regions, which was validated using classification of cryo-EM two-dimensional averages. The resulting hybrid cryo-EM/AlphaFold structure allowed mapping of ligand binding sites, such as C1q and fibroblast growth factor-2, as well as rationalization of previous biochemical data. Given the relevance of PTX3 in conditions ranging from COVID-19 prognosis, cancer progression, and female infertility, this structure could be used to inform the understanding and rational design of therapies for these disorders and processes.
PXD036736	35940338	Chemotherapy treatment induces pro-invasive changes in liver ECM composition. 	Characterization of Chemotherapy-treated PyMT Liver Matrisome	Liver metastasis, breast cancer	Metastasis accounts for 90% of cancer-related deaths, yet the mechanisms by which cancer cells colonize secondary organs remain poorly understood. For breast cancer patients, metastasis to the liver is associated with poor prognosis and a median survival of 6 months. Standard of care is chemotherapy, but recurrence occurs in 30% of patients. Systemic chemotherapy has been shown to induce hepatotoxicity and fibrosis, but how chemotherapy impacts the composition of the liver extracellular matrix (ECM) remains unknown. Individual ECM proteins drive tumor cell proliferation and invasion, features that are essential for metastatic outgrowth in the liver. First, we find that the ECM of livers isolated from chemotherapy-treated MMTV-PyMT mice increases the invasion, but not proliferation, of metastatic breast cancer cells. Proteomic analysis of the liver ECM identified Collagen V to be more abundant in paclitaxel-treated livers. We show that Collagen V increases cancer cell invasion via alpha1beta1 integrins and MAPK signaling, while also increasing the alignment of Collagen I, which has been associated with increased invasion. Treatment with obtustatin, an inhibitor specific to alpha1beta1 integrins, inhibits tumor cell invasion in decellularized ECM from paclitaxel-treated livers. Overall, we show chemotherapy treatment alters the liver microenvironment, priming it as a pro-metastatic niche for cancer metastasis.
PXD032781	35941108	Interaction of LATS1 with SMAC links the MST2/Hippo pathway with apoptosis in an IAP-dependent manner. 	Interaction of LATS1 with SMAC links the MST2/Hippo pathway with apoptosis in an IAP dependent manner	APOPTOSIS, Hippo, IAP, LATS1, MELANOMA, MST2, SMAC	Metastatic malignant melanoma is the deadliest skin cancer, and it is characterised by its high resistance to apoptosis. The main melanoma driving mutations are part of ERK pathway, with BRAF mutations being the most frequent ones, followed by NRAS, NF1 and MEK mutations. Increasing evidence shows that the MST2/Hippo pathway is also deregulated in melanoma. While mutations are rare, MST2/Hippo pathway core proteins expression levels are often dysregulated in melanoma. The expression of the tumour suppressor RASSF1A, a bona fide activator of the MST2 pathway, is silenced by promoter methylation in over half of melanomas and correlates with poor prognosis. Here, using mass spectrometry-based interaction proteomics we identified the Second Mitochondria-derived Activator of Caspases (SMAC) as a novel LATS1 interactor. We show that RASSF1A-dependent activation of the MST2 pathway promotes LATS1-SMAC interaction and negatively regulates the antiapoptotic signal mediated by the members of the IAP family. Moreover, proteomic experiments identified a common cluster of apoptotic regulators that bind to SMAC and LATS1. Mechanistic analysis shows that the LATS1-SMAC complex promotes XIAP ubiquitination and its subsequent degradation which ultimately results in apoptosis. Importantly, we show that the oncogenic BRAF(V600E) mutant prevents the proapoptotic signal mediated by the LATS1-SMAC complex while treatment of melanoma cell lines with BRAF inhibitors promotes the formation of this complex, indicating that inhibition of the LATS1-SMAC might be necessary for BRAF(V600E)-driven melanoma. Finally, we show that LATS1-SMAC interaction is regulated by the SMAC mimetic Birinapant, which requires C-IAP1 inhibition and the degradation of XIAP, suggesting that the MST2 pathway is part of the mechanism of action of Birinapant. Overall, the current work shows that SMAC-dependent apoptosis is regulated by the LATS1 tumour suppressor and supports the idea that LATS1 is a signalling hub that regulates the crosstalk between the MST2 pathway, the apoptotic network and the ERK pathway.
PXD012966	35941338	Proteomics analysis of lysine crotonylation and 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation reveals significant features of systemic lupus erythematosus. 	A proteomic analysis of lysine crotonylation in systemic lupus erythematosus patients	Lysine crotonylation, Posttranslational modification	INTRODUCTION/OBJECTIVES: To seek significant features of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) by utilizing bioinformatics analysis. METHOD: Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to quantify lysine crotonylation (Kcr) and lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib) in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients and normal controls. RESULTS: Seventy-six differentially modified proteins (DMPs) dually modified by Kcr and Khib were identified between SLE patients and healthy people. GO enrichment analysis prompted significant enrichment of seventy-six DMPs in MHC class II protein complex binding and leukocyte migration. KEGG pathways were enriched in antigen processing and presentation pathway and leukocyte transendothelial migration pathway. Six DMPs (CLTC, HSPA1B, HSPA8, HSP90AB1, HSPD1, and PDIA3) were identified in antigen processing and presentation pathway, of which HSPA8 was the core protein. Significant changes of Kcr and Khib in HSPA8 may increase ATP hydrolysis and promote antigen binding to MHC II molecule. In leukocyte transendothelial migration pathway, 7 DMPs (ACTN1, ACTN4, EZR, MSN, RAC1, RHOA, and VCL) were identified. MSN was the protein with the most modification sites in this pathway. In amino terminal ferm region of MSN, Kcr and Khib expression change may lead to the adhesion between leukocytes and endothelial cells, which was an important step of leukocyte migration. CONCLUSION: Kcr and Khib may promote the antigen presentation and jointly regulate the tissue damage mediated by leukocyte migration in SLE patients, which may play key roles in the pathogenesis of SLE probably. Key Points * Antigen processing and presentation and leukocyte transendothelial migration may play key roles in the pathogenesis of SLE.
PXD031429	35941390	Activation of signaling pathways in models of t(6;9)-acute myeloid leukemia. 	FKH1 phosphoproteomics TMT LC-MS	FKH1, U937, phosphoproteomics	Patients within the WHO-subgroup of t(6;9)-positive acute myeloid leukemia (AML) differ from other AML subgroups as they are characterised by younger age and a grim prognosis. Leukemic transformation can often be attributed to single chromosomal aberrations encoding oncogenes, in the case of t(6;9)-AML to the fusion protein DEK-CAN (also called DEK-NUP214). As being a rare disease there is the urgent need for models of t(6;9)-AML. The only cell line derived from a t(6;9)-AML patient currently available is FKH1. By using phospho-proteomics on FKH1 cells, we found a strongly activated ABL1 kinase. Further investigation revealed the presence of ETV6-ABL1. This finding renders necessary to determine DEK-CAN- and ETV6-ABL1-related features when using FKH1. This can be done as ETV6-ABL1 activity in FKH1 is responsive to imatinib. Nevertheless, we provided evidence that both SFK and mTOR activation in FKH1 are DEK-CAN-related features as they were activated also in other t(6;9) and DEK-CAN-positive models. The activation of STAT5 previously shown to be strong in t(6;9)-AML and activated by DEK-CAN is regulated in FKH1 by both DEK-CAN and ETV6-ABL1. In conclusion, FKH1 cells still represent a model for t(6;9)-AML and could serve as model for ETV6-ABL1-positive AML if the presence of these leukemia-inducing oncogenes is adequately considered.Taken together, all our results provide clear evidence of novel and specific interdependencies between leukemia-inducing oncogenes and cancer signaling pathways which will influence the design of therapeutic strategies to better address the complexity of cancer signaling.
PXD031437	35941540	Chitinolytic enzymes contribute to the pathogenicity of Aliivibrio salmonicida LFI1238 in the invasive phase of cold-water vibriosis. 	Chitinolytic enzymes confer pathogenicity of Aliivibrio salmonicida LFI1238 in the invasive phase of cold-water vibriosis	Aliivibrio salmonicida, LPMOs, timsTOF Pro	BACKGROUND: Aliivibrio salmonicida is the causative agent of cold-water vibriosis in salmonids (Oncorhynchus mykiss and Salmo salar L.) and gadidae (Gadus morhua L.). Virulence-associated factors that are essential for the full spectrum of A. salmonicida pathogenicity are largely unknown. Chitin-active lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases (LPMOs) have been indicated to play roles in both chitin degradation and virulence in a variety of pathogenic bacteria but are largely unexplored in this context. RESULTS: In the present study we investigated the role of LPMOs in the pathogenicity of A. salmonicida LFI238 in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.). In vivo challenge experiments using isogenic deletion mutants of the two LPMOs encoding genes AsLPMO10A and AsLPMO10B, showed that both LPMOs, and in particular AsLPMO10B, were important in the invasive phase of cold-water vibriosis. Crystallographic analysis of the AsLPMO10B AA10 LPMO domain (to 1.4 Aa resolution) revealed high structural similarity to viral fusolin, an LPMO known to enhance the virulence of insecticidal agents. Finally, exposure to Atlantic salmon serum resulted in substantial proteome re-organization of the A. salmonicida LPMO deletion variants compared to the wild type strain, indicating the struggle of the bacterium to adapt to the host immune components in the absence of the LPMOs. CONCLUSION: The present study consolidates the role of LPMOs in virulence and demonstrates that such enzymes may have more than one function.
PXD030873	35941608	High-affinity SOAT1 ligands remodeled cholesterol metabolism program to inhibit tumor growth. 	Proteomic study of SOAT1 protein targeting compounds in the treatment of liver cancer	SOAT1 target compound	BACKGROUND: Although cholesterol metabolism is a common pathway for the development of antitumor drugs, there are no specific targets and drugs for clinical use. Here, based on our previous study of sterol O-acyltransferase 1 (SOAT1) in hepatocelluar carcinoma, we sought to screen an effective targeted drug for precise treatment of hepatocelluar carcinoma and, from the perspective of cholesterol metabolism, clarify the relationship between cholesterol regulation and tumorigenesis and development. METHODS: In this study, we developed a virtual screening integrated affinity screening technology for target protein drug screening. A series of in vitro and in vivo experiments were used for drug activity verification. Multi-omics analysis and flow cytometry analysis were used to explore antitumor mechanisms. Comparative analysis of proteome and transcriptome combined with survival follow-up information of patients reveals the clinical therapeutic potential of screened drugs. RESULTS: We screened three compounds, nilotinib, ABT-737, and evacetrapib, that exhibited optimal binding with SOAT1. In particular, nilotinib displayed a high affinity for SOAT1 protein and significantly inhibited tumor activity both in vitro and in vivo. Multi-omics analysis and flow cytometry analysis indicated that SOAT1-targeting compounds reprogrammed the cholesterol metabolism in tumors and enhanced CD8(+) T cells and neutrophils to suppress tumor growth. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, we reported several high-affinity SOAT1 ligands and demonstrated their clinical potential in the precision therapy of liver cancer, and also reveal the potential antitumor mechanism of SOAT1-targeting compounds.
PXD031928	35941657	Multi-omics analyses of MEN1 missense mutations identify disruption of menin-MLL and menin-JunD interactions as critical requirements for molecular pathogenicity. 	Multi-omics analysis of MEN1 missense mutations identifies disruption of menin-MLL and menin-JunD interactions as critical requirements for molecular pathogenicity	greenCUT&RUN	BACKGROUND: Loss-of-function mutations of the multiple endocrine neoplasia type 1 (MEN1) gene are causal to the MEN1 tumor syndrome, but they are also commonly found in sporadic pancreatic neuroendocrine tumors and other types of cancers. The MEN1 gene product, menin, is involved in transcriptional and chromatin regulation, most prominently as an integral component of KMT2A/MLL1 and KMT2B/MLL2 containing COMPASS-like histone H3K4 methyltransferase complexes. In a mutually exclusive fashion, menin also interacts with the JunD subunit of the AP-1 and ATF/CREB transcription factors. RESULTS: Here, we applied and in silico screening approach for 253 disease-related MEN1 missense mutations in order to select a set of nine menin mutations in surface-exposed residues. The protein interactomes of these mutants were assessed by quantitative mass spectrometry, which indicated that seven of the nine mutants disrupt interactions with both MLL1/MLL2 and JunD complexes. Interestingly, we identified three missense mutations, R52G, E255K and E359K, which predominantly reduce the MLL1 and MLL2 interactions when compared with JunD. This observation was supported by a pronounced loss of binding of the R52G, E255K and E359K mutant proteins at unique MLL1 genomic binding sites with less effect on unique JunD sites. CONCLUSIONS: Our results underline the effects of MEN1 gene mutations in both familial and sporadic tumors of endocrine origin on the interactions of menin with the MLL1 and MLL2 histone H3K4 methyltransferase complexes and with JunD-containing transcription factors. Menin binding pocket mutants R52G, E255K and E359K have differential effects on MLL1/MLL2 and JunD interactions, which translate into differential genomic binding patterns. Our findings encourage future studies addressing the pathophysiological relevance of the separate MLL1/MLL2- and JunD-dependent functions of menin mutants in MEN1 disease model systems.
PXD029830	35941969	Comparative Proteomic Analysis Provides New Insights into the Development of Haustorium in Taxillus chinensis (DC.) Danser. 	proteomics analysis haustorium development of Taxillus chinensis	Taxillus chinensis iTRAQ haustorium	Taxillus chinensis is an important medicinal and parasitic plant that attacks other plants for living. The development of haustorium is a critical process, imperative for successful parasitic invasion. To reveal the mechanisms underlying haustorium development, we performed an iTRAQ-based proteomics analysis which led to the identification of several differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) in fresh seeds (CK), baby (FB), and adult haustoria (FD). A total of 563 and 785 DAPs were identified and quantified in the early and later developmental stages, respectively. Pathway enrichment analysis revealed that the DAPs are mainly associated with metabolic pathways, ribosome, phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, and photosynthesis. In addition, DAPs associated with the phytohormone signaling pathway changed markedly. Furthermore, we evaluated the content of various phytohormones during different stages of haustoria development. These results indicated that phytohormones are very important for haustorium development. qRT-PCR results validated that the mRNA expression levels were consistent with the expression of proteins, suggesting that our results are reliable. This is the first report on haustoria proteomes in the parasitic plant, Taxillus chinensis, to the best of our knowledge. Our findings will enhance our understanding of the molecular mechanism of haustoria development.
PXD015983	35943566	Chronic social stress disrupts the intracellular redistribution of brain hexokinase 3 induced by shifts in peripheral glucose levels. 	Effects of chronic social stress on mitochondrial and mitochondrial-associated membrane protein networks in the mouse brain	brain, chronic stress, mitochondrial-associated membrane	Chronic stress has the potential to impair health and may increase the vulnerability for psychiatric disorders. Emerging evidence suggests that specific neurometabolic dysfunctions play a role herein. In mice, chronic social defeat (CSD) stress reduces cerebral glucose uptake despite hyperglycemia. We hypothesized that this metabolic decoupling would be reflected by changes in contact sites between mitochondria and the endoplasmic reticulum, important intracellular nutrient sensors, and signaling hubs. We thus analyzed the proteome of their biochemical counterparts, mitochondria-associated membranes (MAMs) from whole brain tissue obtained from CSD and control mice. This revealed a lack of the glucose-metabolizing enzyme hexokinase 3 (HK3) in MAMs from CSD mice. In controls, HK3 protein abundance in MAMs and also in striatal synaptosomes correlated positively with peripheral blood glucose levels, but this connection was lost in CSD. We conclude that the ability of HK3 to traffic to sites of need, such as MAMs or synapses, is abolished upon CSD and surmise that this contributes to a cellular dysfunction instigated by chronic stress. KEY MESSAGES : Chronic social defeat (CSD) alters brain glucose metabolism CSD depletes hexokinase 3 (HK3) from mitochondria-associated membranes (MAMs) CSD results in loss of positive correlation between blood glucose and HK3 in MAMs and synaptosomes.
PXD029249	35944897	Histone lysine demethylase inhibition reprograms prostate cancer metabolism and mechanics. 	Characterization of AR interactome in prostate cancer cells after MC3324 treatment	androgen receptor, interactome, prostate cancer	OBJECTIVE: Aberrant activity of androgen receptor (AR) is the primary cause underlying development and progression of prostate cancer (PCa) and castration-resistant PCa (CRPC). Androgen signaling regulates gene transcription and lipid metabolism, facilitating tumor growth and therapy resistance in early and advanced PCa. Although direct AR signaling inhibitors exist, AR expression and function can also be epigenetically regulated. Specifically, lysine (K)-specific demethylases (KDMs), which are often overexpressed in PCa and CRPC phenotypes, regulate the AR transcriptional program. METHODS: We investigated LSD1/UTX inhibition, two KDMs, in PCa and CRPC using a multi-omics approach. We first performed a mitochondrial stress test to evaluate respiratory capacity after treatment with MC3324, a dual KDM-inhibitor, and then carried out lipidomic, proteomic, and metabolic analyses. We also investigated mechanical cellular properties with acoustic force spectroscopy. RESULTS: MC3324 induced a global increase in H3K4me2 and H3K27me3 accompanied by significant growth arrest and apoptosis in androgen-responsive and -unresponsive PCa systems. LSD1/UTX inhibition downregulated AR at both transcriptional and non-transcriptional level, showing cancer selectivity, indicating its potential use in resistance to androgen deprivation therapy. Since MC3324 impaired metabolic activity, by modifying the protein and lipid content in PCa and CRPC cell lines. Epigenetic inhibition of LSD1/UTX disrupted mitochondrial ATP production and mediated lipid plasticity, which affected the phosphocholine class, an important structural element for the cell membrane in PCa and CRPC associated with changes in physical and mechanical properties of cancer cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest a network in which epigenetics, hormone signaling, metabolite availability, lipid content, and mechano-metabolic process are closely related. This network may be able to identify additional hotspots for pharmacological intervention and underscores the key role of KDM-mediated epigenetic modulation in PCa and CRPC.
PXD033469	35945200	Circular RNA circNFKB1 promotes osteoarthritis progression through interacting with ENO1 and sustaining NF-kappaB signaling. 	Role of circNFKB1 in cartilage degeneration of knee osteoarthritis and its mechanism	Osteoarthritis, circRNA	Inflammatory cytokines-induced activation of the nuclear factor kappaB (NF-kappaB) pathway plays a critical role in the pathogenesis of osteoarthritis (OA). Circular RNA (circRNA) has been identified as important epigenetic factor in numerous diseases. However, the biological roles of inflammation-related circRNAs in regulating OA pathogenesis remain elusive. Here, we revealed circRNA expression profiles in human primary chondrocytes with interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) stimulation by circRNA sequencing. We identified a highly upregulated circRNA, termed as circNFKB1 in inflamed chondrocytes and osteoarthritic cartilage. As a circRNA derived from exon 2-5 of NFKB1, circNFKB1 is located in both cytoplasm and nucleus of chondrocytes. Furthermore, knockdown of circNFKB1 inhibited extracellular matrix (ECM) catabolism and rescued IL-1beta impaired ECM anabolism whereas ectopic expression of circNFKB1 significantly promoted chondrocytes degradation in vitro. Moreover, intraarticular injection of adenovirus-circNFKB1 in mouse joints triggered spontaneous cartilage loss and OA development. Mechanistically, circNFKB1 interacted with alpha-enolase (ENO1), regulated the expression of its parental gene NFKB1 and sustained the activation of NF-kappaB signaling pathway in chondrocytes. Therefore, this study highlights a novel ENO1-interacting circNFKB1 in OA pathogenesis, and provides valuable insights into understanding the regulatory mechanism of NF-kappaB signaling in chondrocytes and a promising therapeutic target for the treatment of OA.
PXD033421	35945219	The SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling factor DPF3 regulates metastasis of ccRCC by modulating TGF-beta signaling. 	DPF3 and SNIP1 IP-MS in 786-O cells	DPF3, SNIP1	DPF3, a component of the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex, has been associated with clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) in a genome-wide association study. However, the functional role of DPF3 in ccRCC development and progression remains unknown. In this study, we demonstrate that DPF3a, the short isoform of DPF3, promotes kidney cancer cell migration both in vitro and in vivo, consistent with the clinical observation that DPF3a is significantly upregulated in ccRCC patients with metastases. Mechanistically, DPF3a specifically interacts with SNIP1, via which it forms a complex with SMAD4 and p300 histone acetyltransferase (HAT), the major transcriptional regulators of TGF-beta signaling pathway. Moreover, the binding of DPF3a releases the repressive effect of SNIP1 on p300 HAT activity, leading to the increase in local histone acetylation and the activation of cell movement related genes. Overall, our findings reveal a metastasis-promoting function of DPF3, and further establish the link between SWI/SNF components and ccRCC.
PXD032822	35945250	Met1-specific motifs conserved in OTUB subfamily of green plants enable rice OTUB1 to hydrolyse Met1 ubiquitin chains. 	Deubiquitinases that digest Met1 chains in Rice	Deubiquitinase, Met1 chains, Rice	Linear (Met1-linked) ubiquitination is involved inflammatory and innate immune signaling. Previous studies have characterized enzymes regulating the addition and removal of this modification in mammalian systems. However, only a few plant-derived deubiquitinases targeting Met1-linked ubiquitin chains have been reported and their mechanism of action remains elusive. Here, using a dehydroalanine-bearing Met1-diubiquitin suicide probe, we discover OTUB1 from Oryza sativa (OsOTUB1) as a Met1-linked ubiquitin chain-targeting deubiquitinase. By solving crystal structures of apo OsOTUB1 and an OsOTUB1/Met1-diubiquitin complex, we find that Met1 activity is conferred by Met1-specific motifs in the S1' pocket of OsOTUB1. Large-scale sequence alignments and hydrolysis experiments provide evidence that these motifs are a general determinant of Met1 activity in the OTUB subfamily across species. Analysis of the species distribution of OTUBs capable of hydrolysing Met1-linked ubiquitin chains shows that this activity is conserved in green plants (Viridiplantae) and does not exist in metazoans, providing insights into the evolutionary differentiation between primitive plants and animals.
PXD032272	35945361	An integrative-omics analysis of an industrial clavulanic acid-overproducing Streptomyces clavuligerus. 	An integrative transcriptomic and proteomic analysis of an industrial clavulanic acid-overproducing Streptomyces clavuligerus	RNA seq, Streptomyces clavuligerus DEPA, clavulanic acid overproduction, nanoLC-MS/MS	Clavulanic acid (CA) is a clinically important secondary metabolite used to treat infectious diseases. We aimed to decipher complex regulatory mechanisms acting in CA biosynthesis by analyzing transcriptome- and proteome-wide alterations in an industrial CA overproducer Streptomyces clavuligerus strain, namely DEPA and its wild-type counterpart NRRL3585. A total of 924 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 271 differentially produced proteins (DPPs) were obtained by RNA-seq and nanoLC-MS/MS analyses, respectively. In particular, CA biosynthetic genes, namely, car (cad), cas2, oat2, pah, bls, ceas2, orf12, and claR, a cluster situated regulatory (CSR) gene, were significantly upregulated as shown by RNA-seq. Enzymes of clavam biosynthesis were downregulated considerably in the DEPA strain, while the genes involved in the arginine biosynthesis, one of the precursors of CA pathway, were overexpressed. However, the biosynthesis of the other CA precursor, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (G3P), was not affected. CA overproduction in the DEPA strain was correlated with BldD, BldG, BldM, and BldN (AdsA) overrepresentation. In addition, TetR, WhiB, and Xre family transcriptional regulators were shown to be significantly overrepresented. Several uncharacterized/unknown proteins differentially expressed in the DEPA strain await further studies for functional characterization. Correlation analysis indicated an acceptable degree of consistency between the transcriptome and proteome data. The study represents the first integrative-omics analysis in a CA overproducer S. clavuligerus strain, providing insights into the critical control points and potential rational engineering targets for a purposeful increase of CA yields in strain improvement. KEY POINTS: . Transcriptome and proteome-wide alterations in industrial CA overproducer strain DEPA . An acceptable degree of consistency between the transcriptome and proteome data . New targets to be exploited for rational engineering.
PXD032117	35945555	Predictive value of proteomic markers for advanced rectal cancer with neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy. 	Predictive Value of Proteomic Markers for Advanced Rectal Cancer with Neoadjuvant Chemoradiotherapy	Isobaric Tags for Relative and Absolute Quantitation, Neoadjuvant Chemo/radiotherapy, Parallel Reaction Monitoring, Prognosis, Rectal Cancer	BACKGROUND: Preoperative neoadjuvant chemoradiation (nCRT) has been the standard treatment for locally advanced rectal cancer. Serum biomarkers to stratify patients with respect to prognosis and response to nCRT are needed due to the diverse response to the therapy. METHODS: Thirteen paired pre- and post-nCRT sera from rectal cancer patients were analyzed by isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) method. Twenty-five proteins were selected for validation by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) in ninety-one patients. RESULTS: Totally, 310 proteins were identified and quantified in sera samples. Reactome pathway analysis showed that the immune activation-related pathways were enriched in response to nCRT. Twenty-five proteins were selected for further validation. PRM result showed that the level of PZP was higher in pathological complete response (pCR) patients than non-pCR patients. The Random Forest algorithm identified a prediction model composed of 10 protein markers, which allowed discrimination between pCR patients and non-pCR patients (area under the curve (AUC) = 0.886 on testing set). Higher HEP2 and GELS or lower S10A8 in baseline sera were associated with better prognosis. Higher APOA1 in post nCRT sera was associated with better disease-free survival (DFS). CONCLUSIONS: We identified and confirmed a 10-protein panel for nCRT response prediction and four potential biomarkers HEP2, GELS, S10A8 and APOA1 for prognosis of rectal cancer based on iTRAQ-based comparative proteomics screening and PRM-based targeted proteomic validation.
PXD028563	35946785	Commonalities and specialties in photosynthetic functions of PROTON GRADIENT REGULATION5 variants in Arabidopsis. 	Proteomic analysis of different pgr5 mutants and pgrl1ab in Arabidopsis thaliana	Bruker, IMPACTII, LFQ, chloroplast	The PROTON GRADIENT REGULATION5 (PGR5) protein is required for trans-thylakoid proton gradient formation and acclimation to fluctuating light (FL). PGR5 functionally interacts with two other thylakoid proteins, PGR5-like 1 (PGRL1) and 2 (PGRL2); however, the molecular details of these interactions are largely unknown. In the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) pgr5-1 mutant, the PGR5G130S protein accumulates in only small amounts. In this work, we generated a knockout allele of PGR5 (pgr5-Cas) using CRISPR-Cas9 technology. Like pgr5-1, pgr5-Cas is seedling-lethal under FL, but photosynthesis and particularly cyclic electron flow, as well as chlorophyll content, are less severely affected in both pgr5-Cas and pgrl1ab (which lacks PGRL1 and PGR5) than in pgr5-1. These differences are associated with changes in the levels of 260 proteins, including components of the Calvin-Benson cycle, photosystems II and I, and the NDH complex, in pgr5-1 relative to the wild type (WT), pgr5-Cas, and pgrl1ab. Some of the differences between pgr5-1 and the other mutant lines could be tentatively assigned to second-site mutations in the pgr5-1 line, identified by whole-genome sequencing. However, others, particularly the more pronounced photosynthetic defects and PGRL1 depletion (compared to pgr5-Cas), are clearly due to specific negative effects of the amino-acid substitution in PGR5G130S, as demonstrated by complementation analysis. Moreover, pgr5-1 and pgr5-Cas plants are less tolerant to long-term exposure to high light than pgrl1ab plants. These results imply that, in addition to the previously reported necessity of PGRL1 for optimal PGR5 function, PGR5 is required alongside PGRL1 to avoid harmful effects on plant performance.
PXD030139	35947702	Modeling splicing outcome by combining 5'ss strength and splicing regulatory elements. 	Octamer sequences with HEXplorer score amplitude of -10.35, -0.15 or +10.32	HEXplorer, slice site, splicing, splicing regulatory element	Correct pre-mRNA processing in higher eukaryotes vastly depends on splice site recognition. Beyond conserved 5'ss and 3'ss motifs, splicing regulatory elements (SREs) play a pivotal role in this recognition process. Here, we present in silico designed sequences with arbitrary a priori prescribed splicing regulatory HEXplorer properties that can be concatenated to arbitrary length without changing their regulatory properties. We experimentally validated in silico predictions in a massively parallel splicing reporter assay on more than 3000 sequences and exemplarily identified some SRE binding proteins. Aiming at a unified 'functional splice site strength' encompassing both U1 snRNA complementarity and impact from neighboring SREs, we developed a novel RNA-seq based 5'ss usage landscape, mapping the competition of pairs of high confidence 5'ss and neighboring exonic GT sites along HBond and HEXplorer score coordinate axes on human fibroblast and endothelium transcriptome datasets. These RNA-seq data served as basis for a logistic 5'ss usage prediction model, which greatly improved discrimination between strong but unused exonic GT sites and annotated highly used 5'ss. Our 5'ss usage landscape offers a unified view on 5'ss and SRE neighborhood impact on splice site recognition, and may contribute to improved mutation assessment in human genetics.
PXD027346	35947953	Rhomboid protease RHBDL4 promotes retrotranslocation of aggregation-prone proteins for degradation. 	The trypanosome Rhomboid protease RHBDL4 promotes retrotranslocation of aggregation-prone proteins for degradation	intramembrane proteolysis / rhomboid family protein / ER-associated protein degradation / prohibitin family proteins Erlin1 and Erlin2 / protein aggregates	Protein degradation is fundamentally important to ensure cell homeostasis. In the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), the ER-associated degradation (ERAD) pathway targets incorrectly folded and unassembled proteins for turnover by the cytoplasmic proteasome. Previously, we showed that the rhomboid protease RHBDL4, together with p97, mediates membrane protein degradation. However, whether RHBDL4 acts in concert with additional ERAD components is unclear, and its full substrate spectrum remains to be defined. Here, we show that, in addition to membrane proteins, RHBDL4 cleaves aggregation-prone luminal ERAD substrates. Since mutations of the RHBDL4 rhomboid domain led to stabilization of substrates at the cytoplasmic side, we hypothesize that, analogous to the homolog ERAD factor derlin, RHBDL4 is directly involved in substrate retrotranslocation. RHBDL4's interaction with the erlin ERAD complex and reciprocal interaction of rhomboid substrates with erlins suggest that RHBDL4 and erlins form a complex that clips substrates and thereby rescues aggregation-prone peptides in the ER from aggregation.
PXD031214	35948542	Identification of a HTT-specific binding motif in DNAJB1 essential for suppression and disaggregation of HTT. 	Identification of a HTT-specific binding motif in DNAJB1 essential for suppression and disaggregation of HTT	DNAJB1, HTT, crosslinking	Huntington's disease is a neurodegenerative disease caused by an expanded polyQ stretch within Huntingtin (HTT) that renders the protein aggregation-prone, ultimately resulting in the formation of amyloid fibrils. A trimeric chaperone complex composed of Hsc70, DNAJB1 and Apg2 can suppress and reverse the aggregation of HTTExon1Q48. DNAJB1 is the rate-limiting chaperone and we have here identified and characterized the binding interface between DNAJB1 and HTTExon1Q48. DNAJB1 exhibits a HTT binding motif (HBM) in the hinge region between C-terminal domains (CTD) I and II and binds to the polyQ-adjacent proline rich domain (PRD) of soluble as well as aggregated HTT. The PRD of HTT represents an additional binding site for chaperones. Mutation of the highly conserved H244 of the HBM of DNAJB1 completely abrogates the suppression and disaggregation of HTT fibrils by the trimeric chaperone complex. Notably, this mutation does not affect the binding and remodeling of any other protein substrate, suggesting that the HBM of DNAJB1 is a specific interaction site for HTT. Overexpression of wt DNAJB1, but not of DNAJB1(H244A) can prevent the accumulation of HTTExon1Q97 aggregates in HEK293 cells, thus validating the biological significance of the HBM within DNAJB1.
PXD026607	35950191	Integrated liver proteomics and metabolomics identify metabolic pathways affected by pantothenic acid deficiency in Pekin ducks. 	Liver proteomics identifies metabolic pathways affected by pantothenic acid deficiency in Pekin ducks	Pekin ducks, liver, pantothenic acid deficiency	Pantothenic acid deficiency (PAD) in animals causes growth depression, fasting hypoglycemia and impaired lipid and glucose metabolism. However, a systematic multi-omics analysis of effects of PAD on hepatic function has apparently not been reported. We investigated liver proteome and metabolome changes induced by PAD to explain its effects on growth and liver metabolic disorders. Pekin ducks (1-d-old, n = 128) were allocated into 2 groups, with 8 replicates and 8 birds per replicate. For 16 d, all ducks had ad libitum access to either a PAD or a pantothenic acid adequate (control, CON) diet, formulated by supplementing a basal diet with 0 or 8 mg pantothenic acid/kg of diet, respectively. Liver enlargement, elevated liver glycogen concentrations and decreased liver concentrations of triglyceride and unsaturated fatty acids were present in the PAD group compared to the CON group. Based on integrated liver proteomics and metabolomics, PAD mainly affected glycogen synthesis and degradation, glycolysis and gluconeogenesis, tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signaling pathway, fatty acid beta oxidation, and oxidative phosphorylation. Selected proteins were confirmed by Western blotting. Downregulation of proteins and metabolites involved in glycogen synthesis and degradation, glycolysis and gluconeogenesis implied that these processes were impaired in PAD ducks, which could have contributed to fasting hypoglycemia, liver glycogen storage, insufficient ATP production, and growth retardation. In contrast, PAD also upregulated proteins and metabolites involved in fatty acid beta oxidation, the TCA cycle, and oxidative phosphorylation processes in the liver; presumably compensatory responses to produce ATP. We inferred that PAD decreased liver triglyceride and unsaturated fatty acids by activating fatty acid beta oxidation and impairing unsaturated fatty acid synthesis. These findings contributed to our understanding of the mechanisms of PAD-induced changes in hepatic metabolism.
PXD031150	35950614	Epitope Fine Mapping by Mass Spectrometry: Investigations of Immune Complexes Consisting of Monoclonal Anti-HpTGEKP Antibody and Zinc Finger Protein Linker Phospho-Hexapeptides. 	Mass spectrometric binding strength characterizations of immune complexes consisting of anti-phospho-peptide antibody and C2H2 zinc finger protein phospho-peptide-linkers.	ITEM-TWO, Off-line ESI-MS, antiPhosphopeptide-antibody, binding strength characterization, zinc finger-phosphopeptide	Accurate formation of antibody-antigen complexes has been relied on in both, multitudes of scientific projects and ample therapeutic and diagnostic applications. Mass spectrometrically determined dissociation behavior of immune complexes with the anti-HpTGEKP antibody revealed that the ten most frequently occurring phospho-hexapeptide linker sequences from C2H2 zinc finger proteins could be divided into two classes: orthodox binders, where strong noncovalent interactions developed as anticipated, and unorthodox binders with deviating structures and weaker binding. Phosphorylation of threonine was compulsory for antibody binding in an orthodox manner. Gas phase dissociation energy determinations of seven C2H2 zinc finger protein linker phospho-hexapeptides with orthodox binding properties revealed a bipolar binding motif of the antibody paratope. Epitope peptides, which in addition to the negatively charged phospho-threonine residue were C-terminally flanked by positively charged residues provided stronger binding, i. e. dissociation was endothermic, than peptides with acidic amino acid residues at these positions, for which dissociation was exothermic.
PXD030202	35951441	Targeting FAPalpha-expressing hepatic stellate cells overcomes resistance to antiangiogenics in colorectal cancer liver metastasis models. 	TMT analysis of tissue proteomics in bevacizumab-resistant xenograft tumor tissuein nude mice	Colorectal cancer, LC-MS, i.e.Human	Vessel co-option has been demonstrated to mediate colorectal cancer liver metastasis (CRCLM) resistance to antiangiogenic therapy. The current mechanisms underlying vessel co-option have mainly focused on "hijacker" tumor cells, whereas the function of the "hijackee" sinusoidal blood vessels has not been explored. Here, we found that the occurrence of vessel co-option in bevacizumab-resistant CRCLM xenografts was associated with increased expression of fibroblast activation protein alpha (FAPalpha) in the co-opted hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), which was dramatically attenuated in HSC-specific conditional Fap-knockout mice bearing CRCLM allografts. Mechanistically, bevacizumab treatment induced hypoxia to upregulate the expression of fibroblast growth factor-binding protein 1 (FGFBP1) in tumor cells. Gain- or loss-of-function experiments revealed that the bevacizumab-resistant tumor cell-derived FGFBP1 induced FAPalpha expression by enhancing the paracrine FGF2/FGFR1/ERK1/-2/EGR1 signaling pathway in HSCs. FAPalpha promoted CXCL5 secretion in HSCs, which activated CXCR2 to promote the epithelial-mesenchymal transition of tumor cells and the recruitment of myeloid-derived suppressor cells. These findings were further validated in tumor tissues derived from patients with CRCLM. Targeting FAPalpha+ HSCs effectively disrupted the co-opted sinusoidal blood vessels and overcame bevacizumab resistance. Our study highlights the role of FAPalpha+ HSCs in vessel co-option and provides an effective strategy to overcome the vessel co-option-mediated bevacizumab resistance.
PXD023781	35951647	Morphological, cellular, and molecular basis of brain infection in COVID-19 patients. 	SARS-CoV-2 infects brain astrocytes of COVID-19 patients and impairs neuronal viability	Astrocytes, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, Sars-Cov2	Although increasing evidence confirms neuropsychiatric manifestations associated mainly with severe COVID-19 infection, long-term neuropsychiatric dysfunction (recently characterized as part of "long COVID-19" syndrome) has been frequently observed after mild infection. We show the spectrum of cerebral impact of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection, ranging from long-term alterations in mildly infected individuals (orbitofrontal cortical atrophy, neurocognitive impairment, excessive fatigue and anxiety symptoms) to severe acute damage confirmed in brain tissue samples extracted from the orbitofrontal region (via endonasal transethmoidal access) from individuals who died of COVID-19. In an independent cohort of 26 individuals who died of COVID-19, we used histopathological signs of brain damage as a guide for possible SARS-CoV-2 brain infection and found that among the 5 individuals who exhibited those signs, all of them had genetic material of the virus in the brain. Brain tissue samples from these five patients also exhibited foci of SARS-CoV-2 infection and replication, particularly in astrocytes. Supporting the hypothesis of astrocyte infection, neural stem cell-derived human astrocytes in vitro are susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection through a noncanonical mechanism that involves spike-NRP1 interaction. SARS-CoV-2-infected astrocytes manifested changes in energy metabolism and in key proteins and metabolites used to fuel neurons, as well as in the biogenesis of neurotransmitters. Moreover, human astrocyte infection elicits a secretory phenotype that reduces neuronal viability. Our data support the model in which SARS-CoV-2 reaches the brain, infects astrocytes, and consequently, leads to neuronal death or dysfunction. These deregulated processes could contribute to the structural and functional alterations seen in the brains of COVID-19 patients.
PXD030503	35954222	Quantitative Acetylomics Uncover Acetylation-Mediated Pathway Changes Following Histone Deacetylase Inhibition in Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma. 	Dissection of acetylomic profiles in T cell lymphoma following histone deacetylases inhibition	Acetylomics, Anaplastic Large Cell Lymphoma, Histone deacetylase inhibitors, Histone deacetylases	Histone deacetylases (HDACs) target acetylated lysine residues in histone and non-histone proteins. HDACs are implicated in the regulation of genomic stability, cell cycle, cell death and differentiation and thus critically involved in tumorigenesis. Further, HDACs regulate T-cell development and HDAC inhibitors (HDACis) have been approved for clinical use in some T-cell malignancies. Still, the exact targets and mechanisms of HDAC inhibition in cancer are understudied. We isolated tumor cell lines from a transgenic mouse model of anaplastic large cell lymphoma (ALCL), a rare T-cell lymphoma, and abrogated HDAC activity by treatment with the HDACis Vorinostat and Entinostat or Cre-mediated deletion of Hdac1. Changes in overall protein expression as well as histone and protein acetylation were measured following Hdac1 deletion or pharmacological inhibition using label-free liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). We found changes in overall protein abundance and increased acetylation of histones and non-histone proteins, many of which were newly discovered and associated with major metabolic and DNA damage pathways. For non-histone acetylation, we mapped a total of 1204 acetylated peptides corresponding to 603 proteins, including chromatin modifying proteins and transcription factors. Hyperacetylated proteins were involved in processes such as transcription, RNA metabolism and DNA damage repair (DDR). The DDR pathway was majorly affected by hyperacetylation following HDAC inhibition. This included acetylation of H2AX, PARP1 and previously unrecognized acetylation sites in TP53BP1. Our data provide a comprehensive view of the targets of HDAC inhibition in malignant T cells with general applicability and could have translational impact for the treatment of ALCL with HDACis alone or in combination therapies.
PXD031804	35955534	Molecular Framework of Mouse Endothelial Cell Dysfunction during Inflammation: A Proteomics Approach. 	Proteomics of Mouse Endothelial Cell Dysfunction in Sepsis	endothelium, inflamation, sepsis	A key aspect of cytokine-induced changes as observed in sepsis is the dysregulated activation of endothelial cells (ECs), initiating a cascade of inflammatory signaling leading to leukocyte adhesion/migration and organ damage. The therapeutic targeting of ECs has been hampered by concerns regarding organ-specific EC heterogeneity and their response to inflammation. Using in vitro and in silico analysis, we present a comprehensive analysis of the proteomic changes in mouse lung, liver and kidney ECs following exposure to a clinically relevant cocktail of proinflammatory cytokines. Mouse lung, liver and kidney ECs were incubated with TNF-alpha/IL-1beta/IFN-gamma for 4 or 24 h to model the cytokine-induced changes. Quantitative label-free global proteomics and bioinformatic analysis performed on the ECs provide a molecular framework for the EC response to inflammatory stimuli over time and organ-specific differences. Gene Ontology and PANTHER analysis suggest why some organs are more susceptible to inflammation early on, and show that, as inflammation progresses, some protein expression patterns become more uniform while additional organ-specific proteins are expressed. These findings provide an in-depth understanding of the molecular changes involved in the EC response to inflammation and can support the development of drugs targeting ECs within different organs. Data are available via ProteomeXchange (identifier PXD031804).
PXD034943	35955615	Salmonella Regulator STM0347 Mediates Flagellar Phase Variation via Hin Invertase. 	Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium transcriptional regulator STM0347 mediates Flagellar Phase Variation via Hin invertase	STM0347	Salmonella enterica is one of the most important food-borne pathogens, whose motility and virulence are highly related to flagella. Flagella alternatively express two kinds of surface antigen flagellin, FliC and FljB, in a phenomenon known as flagellar phase variation. The molecular mechanisms by which the switching orientation of the Hin-composed DNA segment mediates the expression of the fljBA promoter have been thoroughly illustrated. However, the precise regulators that control DNA strand exchange are barely understood. In this study, we found that a putative response regulator, STM0347, contributed to the phase variation of flagellin in S. Typhimurium. With quantitative proteomics and secretome profiling, a lack of STM0347 was confirmed to induce the transformation of flagellin from FliC to FljB. Real-time PCR and in vitro incubation of SMT0347 with the hin DNA segment suggested that STM0347 disturbed Hin-catalyzed DNA reversion via hin degradation, and the overexpression of Hin was sufficient to elicit flagellin variation. Subsequently, the Deltastm0347 strain was outcompeted by its parental strain in HeLa cell invasion. Collectively, our results reveal the crucial role of STM0347 in Salmonella virulence and flagellar phase variation and highlight the complexity of the regulatory network of Hin-modulated flagellum phase variation in Salmonella.
PXD032269	35955870	diaPASEF Proteomics and Feature Selection for the Description of Sputum Proteome Profiles in a Cohort of Different Subtypes of Lung Cancer Patients and Controls. 	Lung cancer biomarkers in sputum samples using diaPASEF LC-MS proteomics	diaPASEF, lung cancer, sputum	The high mortality, the presence of an initial asymptomatic stage and the fact that diagnosis in early stages reduces mortality justify the implementation of screening programs in the populations at risk of lung cancer. It is imperative to develop less aggressive methods that can complement existing diagnosis technologies. In this study, we aimed to identify lung cancer protein biomarkers and pathways affected in sputum samples, using the recently developed diaPASEF mass spectrometry (MS) acquisition mode. The sputum proteome of lung cancer cases and controls was analyzed through nano-HPLC-MS using the diaPASEF mode. For functional analysis, the results from differential expression analysis were further analyzed in the STRING platform, and feature selection was performed using sparse partial least squares discriminant analysis (sPLS-DA). Our results showed an activation of inflammation, with an alteration of pathways and processes related to acute-phase, complement, and immune responses. The resulting sPLS-DA model separated between case and control groups with high levels of sensitivity and specificity. In conclusion, we showed how new-generation proteomics can be used to detect potential biomarkers in sputum samples, and ultimately to discriminate patients from controls and even to help to differentiate between different cancer subtypes.
PXD033194	35957913	Molecular Changes In Cardiac Tissue As A New Marker To Predict Cardiac Dysfunction Induced By Radiotherapy. 	Cardiac tissue remodeling as a new marker to predict cardiac dysfunction induced by radiotherapy.	Cardiac dysfunction, Cardiac muscle, Cardiac tissue, Cardiooncology, GLS, Radiotherapy	The contribution of radiotherapy, per se, to late cardiotoxicity remains controversial. To clarify its impact on the development of early cardiac dysfunction, we developed an experimental model in which the hearts of rats were exposed, in a fractionated plan, to clinically relevant doses of ionizing radiation for oncological patients that undergo thoracic radiotherapy. Rat hearts were exposed to daily doses of 0.04, 0.3, and 1.2 Gy for 23 days, achieving cumulative doses of 0.92, 6.9, and 27.6 Gy, respectively. We demonstrate that myocardial deformation, assessed by global longitudinal strain, was impaired (a relative percentage reduction of >15% from baseline) in a dose-dependent manner at 18 months. Moreover, by scanning electron microscopy, the microvascular density in the cardiac apex was significantly decreased exclusively at 27.6 Gy dosage. Before GLS impairment detection, several tools (qRT-PCR, mass spectrometry, and western blot) were used to assess molecular changes in the cardiac tissue. The number/expression of several genes, proteins, and KEGG pathways, related to inflammation, fibrosis, and cardiac muscle contraction, were differently expressed in the cardiac tissue according to the cumulative dose. Subclinical cardiac dysfunction occurs in a dose-dependent manner as detected by molecular changes in cardiac tissue, a predictor of the severity of global longitudinal strain impairment. Moreover, there was no dose threshold below which no myocardial deformation impairment was detected. Our findings i) contribute to developing new markers and exploring non-invasive magnetic resonance imaging to assess cardiac tissue changes as an early predictor of cardiac dysfunction; ii) should raise red flags, since there is no dose threshold below which no myocardial deformation impairment was detected and should be considered in radiation-based imaging and -guided therapeutic cardiac procedures; and iii) highlights the need for personalized clinical approaches.
PXD032353	35958427	Induced pluripotent stem cell-derived smooth muscle cells to study cardiovascular calcification. 	Human iPSCs differentiated into SMCs	Lumos, calcification, smooth muscle cell	Cardiovascular calcification is the lead predictor of cardiovascular events and the top cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. To date, only invasive surgical options are available to treat cardiovascular calcification despite the growing understanding of underlying pathological mechanisms. Key players in vascular calcification are vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs), which transform into calcifying SMCs and secrete mineralizing extracellular vesicles that form microcalcifications, subsequently increasing plaque instability and consequential plaque rupture. There is an increasing, practical need for a large scale and inexhaustible source of functional SMCs. Here we describe an induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived model of SMCs by differentiating iPSCs toward SMCs to study the pathogenesis of vascular calcification. Specifically, we characterize the proteome during iPSC differentiation to better understand the cellular dynamics during this process. First, we differentiated human iPSCs toward an induced-SMC (iSMC) phenotype in a 10-day protocol. The success of iSMC differentiation was demonstrated through morphological analysis, immunofluorescent staining, flow cytometry, and proteomics characterization. Proteomics was performed throughout the entire differentiation time course to provide a robust, well-defined starting and ending cell population. Proteomics data verified iPSC differentiation to iSMCs, and functional enrichment of proteins on different days showed the key pathways changing during iSMC development. Proteomics comparison with primary human SMCs showed a high correlation with iSMCs. After iSMC differentiation, we initiated calcification in the iSMCs by culturing the cells in osteogenic media for 17 days. Calcification was verified using Alizarin Red S staining and proteomics data analysis. This study presents an inexhaustible source of functional vascular SMCs and calcifying vascular SMCs to create an in vitro model of vascular calcification in osteogenic conditions, with high potential for future applications in cardiovascular calcification research.
PXD034230	35959374	Streptococcus Mutans Membrane Vesicles Enhance Candida albicans Pathogenicity and Carbohydrate Metabolism. 	Streptococcus mutans membrane vesicles enhance Candida albicans pathogenicity	Candida albicans, Streptococcus mutans, cross-kingdom, dental caries, membrane vesicles	Streptococcus mutans and Candida albicans, as the most common bacterium and fungus in the oral cavity respectively, are considered microbiological risk markers of early childhood caries. S. mutans membrane vesicles (MVs) contain virulence proteins, which play roles in biofilm formation and disease progression. Our previous research found that S. mutans MVs harboring glucosyltransferases augment C. albicans biofilm formation by increasing exopolysaccharide production, but the specific impact of S. mutans MVs on C. albicans virulence and pathogenicity is still unknown. In the present study, we developed C. albicans biofilms on the surface of cover glass, hydroxyapatite discs and bovine dentin specimens. The results showed that C. albicans can better adhere to the tooth surface with the effect of S. mutans MVs. Meanwhile, we employed C. albicans biofilm-bovine dentin model to evaluate the influence of S. mutans MVs on C. albicans biofilm cariogenicity. In the S. mutans MV-treated group, the bovine dentin surface hardness loss was significantly increased and the surface morphology showed more dentin tubule exposure and broken dentin tubules. Subsequently, integrative proteomic and metabolomic approaches were used to identify the differentially expressed proteins and metabolites of C. albicans when cocultured with S. mutans MVs. The combination of proteomics and metabolomics analysis indicated that significantly regulated proteins and metabolites were involved in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism. In summary, the results of the present study proved that S. mutans MVs increase bovine dentin demineralization provoked by C. albicans biofilms and enhance the protein and metabolite expression of C. albicans related to carbohydrate metabolism.
PXD025210	35959468	Dataset from a proteomics analysis of tumor antigens shared between an allogenic tumor cell lysate vaccine and pancreatic tumor tissue. 	Autologous Dendritic Cells Loaded with Allogenic Tumor Lysate for Surgically Resected Pancreatic Cancer Patients. Rationale and Clinical Results of a Phase II Study (REACtiVe Trial)	Dendritic cells, Immunotherapy, Pancreatic Adenocarcinoma, T cells	The data described was acquired as part of a clinical study with the aim to investigate the potential of tumor-reactive T-cell response as response to vaccination of pancreatic cancer patients with an allogenic tumor cell lysate vaccine (Lau et al., 2022). Proteomics analysis was carried out to identify tumor antigens that are shared between the allogeneic tumor cell lysate used for the vaccine and pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) tissue samples. To this objective, cell lysates of the vaccine and of nine tissue samples were enzymatically digested and isotopically labeled with tandem mass tags (TMT) in a so-called six-plex manner (Thermo Fisher Scientific). Three pools were prepared by mixing the samples according to their TMT-labels. Subsequently, the three sample pools were fractionated into 24 fractions with high-pH reversed phase chromatography. These fractions were first analyzed on a nano-liquid chromatography (LC) system online coupled to a high-resolution Eclipse Orbitrap mass spectrometer (MS) equipped with a high-field asymmetric-waveform ion-mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) source using a data-dependent MS2 shotgun method. Overall, 126,618 unique peptide sequences, on basis of 768,638 peptide spectra matches and corresponding to 7,597 protein groups, were identified in the total sample set including 61 tumor antigens (Supplement Table S2 in Lau et al. 2022) that were prioritized by Cheever and co-workers as vaccine target antigens on basis of a series of objective criteria (Cheever et al., 2009). In the second phase of the experiment, this set of tumor antigens was targeted using a serial precursor selection (SPS) MS3 method. From this data, ion trap MS2 and Orbitrap MS3 fragment spectra were extracted for peptide identification (protein sequence database-dependent search) and relative quantification using the TMT labels, respectively. The dataset ultimately allowed the identification and quantification of 51 proteins and 163 related peptide precursors with the TMT labels (see Fig. 2B and Supplemental Fig. 8, Lau et al. 2022).
PXD025523	35959657	Loss of Nuclear Envelope Integrity and Increased Oxidant Production Cause DNA Damage in Adult Hearts Deficient in PKP2: A Molecular Substrate of ARVC. 	arrythmogenic right ventricular acrdiomayopathy (PKP2-cko in mice and Human biopsies)	ARVC, TMT, cardiovascular protemics, heart failure	BACKGROUND: Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) is characterized by high propensity to life-threatening arrhythmias and progressive loss of heart muscle. More than 40% of reported genetic variants linked to ARVC reside in the PKP2 gene, which encodes the PKP2 protein (plakophilin-2). METHODS: We describe a comprehensive characterization of the ARVC molecular landscape as determined by high-resolution mass spectrometry, RNA sequencing, and transmission electron microscopy of right ventricular biopsy samples obtained from patients with ARVC with PKP2 mutations and left ventricular ejection fraction >45%. Samples from healthy relatives served as controls. The observations led to experimental work using multiple imaging and biochemical techniques in mice with a cardiac-specific deletion of Pkp2 studied at a time of preserved left ventricular ejection fraction and in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived PKP2-deficient myocytes. RESULTS: Samples from patients with ARVC present a loss of nuclear envelope integrity, molecular signatures indicative of increased DNA damage, and a deficit in transcripts coding for proteins in the electron transport chain. Mice with a cardiac-specific deletion of Pkp2 also present a loss of nuclear envelope integrity, which leads to DNA damage and subsequent excess oxidant production (O2(.-) and H2O2), the latter increased further under mechanical stress (isoproterenol or exercise). Increased oxidant production and DNA damage is recapitulated in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived PKP2-deficient myocytes. Furthermore, PKP2-deficient cells release H2O2 into the extracellular environment, causing DNA damage and increased oxidant production in neighboring myocytes in a paracrine manner. Treatment with honokiol increases SIRT3 (mitochondrial nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent protein deacetylase sirtuin-3) activity, reduces oxidant levels and DNA damage in vitro and in vivo, reduces collagen abundance in the right ventricular free wall, and has a protective effect on right ventricular function. CONCLUSIONS: Loss of nuclear envelope integrity and subsequent DNA damage is a key substrate in the molecular pathology of ARVC. We show transcriptional downregulation of proteins of the electron transcript chain as an early event in the molecular pathophysiology of the disease (before loss of left ventricular ejection fraction <45%), which associates with increased oxidant production (O2(.-) and H2O2). We propose therapies that limit oxidant formation as a possible intervention to restrict DNA damage in ARVC.
PXD032252	35959672	Proteomic and Targeted Metabolomic Studies on a Silkworm Model of Parkinson's Disease. 	Proteomic and targeted metabolomic studies on a silkworm model of Parkinson's disease	6-hydroxydopamine, Metabolomics, Neurodegeneration, Neurotransmitter, Parkinson's disease, Silkworm	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a chronic and progressive movement disorder that is characterized by the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the brain. Animal models of PD have become very popular in the past two decades to understand the etiology, pathology, and molecular and cellular pathways associated with PD. In this study, we report the first neurotoxin-induced silkworm model for PD by chronic feeding with 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) and explore the possible molecular mechanisms associated with PD using proteomic and targeted metabolomic approaches. Although silkworm is phylogenetically distant from humans and rats, 6-OHDA treatment produced similar PD phenotypes, including motor dysfunction, dopaminergic neuron degeneration, and decreased levels of dopamine. Major neurotransmitters in the silkworm head tissue were profiled, revealing key molecules implicating neurodegenerative disorder. Proteomics analysis revealed a major downregulation of nearly 50 structural proteins constituting cuticles and microfilaments, indicating mechanical damage in the silkworm tissues. The results suggest that 6-OHDA treatment could induce PD-like symptoms in silkworms and activate similar proteomic and metabolic pathways to those in rats or higher animals. This study demonstrates the feasibility and value of the silkworm-based PD model, which may provide important clues for understanding the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying PD. The mass spectrometry raw files have been deposited to iProx via the project ID IPX0004206000.
PXD030545	35960805	C11orf94/Frey is a key regulator for male fertility by controlling Izumo1 complex assembly. 	C11orf94/Frey is a key regulator for male fertility by controlling sperm fusion complex assembly	AP-MS, C11orf94/Frey, Gamete Fusion, Izumo1, Male infertility, label-free quantitative Co-IP	Although gamete fusion represents the central event in sexual reproduction, the required protein machinery is poorly defined. In sperm cells, Izumo1 and several Izumo1-associated proteins play an essential role for this process. However, so far, the mechanisms underlying transport and maturation of Izumo1 and its incorporation into high molecular weight complexes are incompletely defined. Here, we provide a detailed characterization of the C11orf94 protein, which we rename Frey, which provides a platform for the assembly of Izumo1 complexes. By retaining Izumo1 in the endoplasmic reticulum, Frey facilitates its incorporation into high molecular weight complexes. To fulfill its function, the unstable Frey protein is stabilized within the catalytic center of an intramembrane protease. Loss of Frey results in reduced assembly of Izumo1 complexes and male infertility due to impaired gamete fusion. Collectively, these findings provide mechanistic insights into the early biogenesis and functional relevance of Izumo1 complexes.
PXD033105	35961098	Soluble guanylyl cyclase mediates noncanonical nitric oxide signaling by nitrosothiol transfer under oxidative stress. 	Soluble guanylyl cyclase mediates noncanonical nitric oxide signaling by nitrosothiol transfer under oxidative stress	S-nitrosation, S-nitrosylation, cGMP, nitric oxide, oxidative stress, soluble guanylyl cyclase	Soluble guanylyl cyclase (GC1) is an alpha/beta heterodimer producing cGMP when stimulated by nitric oxide (NO). The NO-GC1-cGMP pathway is essential for cardiovascular homeostasis but is disrupted by oxidative stress, which causes GC1 desensitization to NO by heme oxidation and S-nitrosation (SNO) of specific cysteines. We discovered that under these conditions, GC1-alpha subunit increases cellular S-nitrosation via transfer of nitrosothiols to other proteins (transnitrosation) in cardiac and smooth muscle cells. One of the GC1 SNO-targets was the oxidized form of Thioredoxin1 (oTrx1), which is unidirectionally transnitrosated by GC1 with alphaC610 as a SNO-donor. Because oTrx1 itself drives transnitrosation, we sought and identified SNO-proteins targeted by both GC1 and Trx1. We found that transnitrosation of the small GTPase RhoA by SNO-GC1 requires oTrx1 as a nitrosothiol relay, suggesting a SNO-GC1-->oTrx1-->RhoA cascade. The RhoA signaling pathway, which is antagonized by the canonical NO-cGMP pathway, was alternatively inhibited by GC1-alpha-dependent S-nitrosation under oxidative conditions. We propose that SNO-GC1, via transnitrosation, mediates adaptive responses triggered by oxidation of the canonical NO-cGMP pathway.
PXD033593	35961399	Dichlorvos-induced formation of isopeptide crosslinks between proteins in SH-SY5Y cells. 	Dichlorvos-induced formation of isopeptide crosslinks between proteins in SH-SY5Y cells	Protein Prospector, SHSY5Y human neuroblastoma cells, crosslink, crosslinks, dichlorvos, isopeptide, manual evaluation	Chlorpyrifos oxon catalyzes the crosslinking of proteins via an isopeptide bond between lysine and glutamic acid or aspartic acid in studies with purified proteins. Our goal was to determine the crosslinking activity of the organophosphorus pesticide, dichlorvos. We developed a protocol for examining crosslinks in a complex protein mixture consisting of human SH-SY5Y cells exposed to 10 muM dichlorvos. The steps in our protocol included immunopurification of crosslinked peptides by binding to anti-isopeptide antibody 81D1C2, stringent washing of the immobilized complex, release of bound peptides from Protein G agarose with 50% acetonitrile 1% formic acid, liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry on an Orbitrap Fusion Lumos mass spectrometer, Protein Prospector searches of mass spectrometry data, and manual evaluation of candidate crosslinked dipeptides. We report a low quantity of dichlorvos-induced KD and KE crosslinked proteins in human SH-SY5Y cells exposed to dichlorvos. Cells not treated with dichlorvos had no detectable KD and KE crosslinked proteins. Proteins in the crosslink were low abundance proteins. In conclusion, we provide a protocol for testing complex protein mixtures for the presence of crosslinked proteins. Our protocol could be useful for testing the association between neurodegenerative disease and exposure to organophosphorus pesticides.
PXD031697	35961990	Absolute protein quantitation of the mouse macrophage Toll-like receptor and chemotaxis pathways. 	Absolute Protein Quantitation of the Mouse Macrophage Toll-Like Receptor and Chemotaxis Pathways	Toll-like receptor pathway, chemotaxis pathway, macrophage, parallel reaction monitoring	The Toll-like receptor (TLR) and chemotaxis pathways are key components of the innate immune system. Subtle variation in the concentration, timing, and molecular structure of the ligands are known to affect downstream signaling and the resulting immune response. Computational modeling and simulation at the molecular interaction level can be used to study complex biological pathways, but such simulations require protein concentration values as model parameters. Here we report the development and application of targeted mass spectrometry assays to measure the absolute abundance of proteins of the mouse macrophage Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) and chemotaxis pathways. Two peptides per protein were quantified, if possible. The protein abundance values ranged from 1,332 to 227,000,000 copies per cell. They moderately correlated with transcript abundance values from a previously published mouse macrophage RNA-seq dataset, and these two datasets were combined to make proteome-wide abundance estimates. The datasets produced during this investigation can be used for pathway modeling and simulation, as well as for other studies of the TLR and chemotaxis pathways.
PXD032761	35962613	Loss of mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation protein short-chain Enoyl-CoA hydratase disrupts oxidative phosphorylation protein complex stability and function. 	Loss of Mitochondrial Fatty Acid beta-Oxidation Protein Short Chain Enoyl-CoA Hydratase Disrupts Oxidative Phosphorylation Protein Complex Stability and Function	ECHS1 deficiency, OXPHOS, fatty acid oxidation, mitochondria, mitochondrial disease, short chain enoyl-CoA hydratase	Short-chain enoyl-CoA hydratase 1 (ECHS1) is involved in the second step of mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation (FAO), catalysing the hydration of short-chain enoyl-CoA esters to short-chain 3-hyroxyl-CoA esters. Genetic deficiency in ECHS1 (ECHS1D) is associated with a specific subset of Leigh Syndrome, a disease typically caused by defects in oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). Here, we examined the molecular pathogenesis of ECHS1D using a CRISPR/Cas9 edited human cell 'knockout' model and fibroblasts from ECHS1D patients. Transcriptome analysis of ECHS1 'knockout' cells showed reductions in key mitochondrial pathways, including the tricarboxylic acid cycle, receptor-mediated mitophagy and nucleotide biosynthesis. Subsequent proteomic analyses confirmed these reductions and revealed additional defects in mitochondrial oxidoreductase activity and fatty acid beta-oxidation. Functional analysis of ECHS1 'knockout' cells showed reduced mitochondrial oxygen consumption rates when metabolising glucose or OXPHOS complex I-linked substrates, as well as decreased complex I and complex IV enzyme activities. ECHS1 'knockout' cells also exhibited decreased OXPHOS protein complex steady-state levels (complex I, complex III2 , complex IV, complex V and supercomplexes CIII2 /CIV and CI/CIII2 /CIV), which were associated with a defect in complex I assembly. Patient fibroblasts exhibit varied reduction of mature OXPHOS complex steady-state levels, with defects detected in CIII2 , CIV, CV and the CI/CIII2 /CIV supercomplex. Overall, these findings highlight the contribution of defective OXPHOS function, in particular complex I deficiency, to the molecular pathogenesis of ECHS1D.
PXD030448	35963242	EML2-S constitutes a new class of proteins that recognizes and regulates the dynamics of tyrosinated microtubules. 	A systematic screening pipeline identifies a new regulator of tyrosinated microtubule dynamics	TMT6, detyrosination, microtubule, tyrosination	Tubulin post-translational modifications (PTMs) alter microtubule properties by affecting the binding of microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs). Microtubule detyrosination, which occurs by proteolytic removal of the C-terminal tyrosine from a-tubulin, generates the oldest known tubulin PTM, but we lack comprehensive knowledge of MAPs that are regulated by this PTM. We developed a screening pipeline to identify proteins that discriminate between Y- and DeltaY-microtubules and found that echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 2 (EML2) preferentially interacts with Y-microtubules. This activity depends on a Y-microtubule interaction motif built from WD40 repeats. We show that EML2 tracks the tips of shortening microtubules, a behavior not previously seen among human MAPs in vivo, and influences dynamics to increase microtubule stability. Our screening pipeline is readily adapted to identify proteins that specifically recognize a wide range of microtubule PTMs.
PXD034393	35963430	Autoinhibition of the GEF activity of cytoskeletal regulatory protein Trio is disrupted in neurodevelopmental disorder-related genetic variants. 	Autoinhibition of Trio guanine nucleotide exchange factor activity for Rac1 by its spectrin repeats is disrupted by neurodevelopmental disorder-related genetic variants.	TRIO gene, crosslinking, limited proteolysis, neurodevelopment disorders	TRIO encodes a cytoskeletal regulatory protein with three catalytic domains-two guanine exchange factor (GEF) domains, GEF1 and GEF2, and a kinase domain-as well as several accessory domains that have not been extensively studied. Function-damaging variants in the TRIO gene are known to be enriched in individuals with neurodevelopmental disorders (NDDs). Disease variants in the GEF1 domain or the nine adjacent spectrin repeats (SRs) are enriched in NDDs, suggesting that dysregulated GEF1 activity is linked to these disorders. We provide evidence here that the Trio SRs interact intramolecularly with the GEF1 domain to inhibit its enzymatic activity. We demonstrate that SRs 6-9 decrease GEF1 catalytic activity both in vitro and in cells and show that NDD-associated variants in the SR8 and GEF1 domains relieve this autoinhibitory constraint. Our results from chemical cross-linking and bio-layer interferometry indicate that the SRs primarily contact the pleckstrin homology region of the GEF1 domain, reducing GEF1 binding to the small GTPase Rac1. Together, our findings reveal a key regulatory mechanism that is commonly disrupted in multiple NDDs and may offer a new target for therapeutic intervention for TRIO-associated NDDs.
PXD026202	35963583	Chronic Fluoxetine Treatment of Socially Isolated Rats Modulates Prefrontal Cortex Proteome. 	Chronic fluoxetine treatment of socially isolated rats modulates prefrontal cortex proteome	Depression, Energy metabolism, Fluoxetine, Non-synaptic mitochondria, Prefrontal Cortex	Fluoxetine (Flx) is the most commonly used antidepressant to treat major depressive disorder. However, its molecular mechanisms of action are not defined as yet. A comparative proteomic approach was used to identify proteome changes in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) cytosolic and non-synaptic mitochondria (NSM)-enriched fractions of adult male Wistar rats following chronic social isolation (CSIS), a rat model of depression, and Flx treatment in CSIS and control rats, using liquid chromatography online tandem mass spectrometry. Flx reversed CSIS-induced depressive - like behavior according to preference for sucrose and immobility in the forced swim test, indicating its antidepressant effect. Flx treatment in controls led to an increase of the expression of cytosolic proteins involved in the microtubule cytoskeleton and intracellular calcium homeostasis and of enzymes involved in bioenergetic and transmembrane transport in NSM. CSIS downregulated the cytosolic proteins involved in proteasome pathway, and glutathione antioxidative system, and upregulated the expression of enzymes participating in mitochondrial-energy metabolism and transport. The presence of cytochrome c in the cytosol may suggest compromised mitochondrial membrane integrity. Flx treatment in CSIS rats downregulated protein involved in oxidative phosphorylation, such as complex III and manganese superoxide dismutase, and upregulated vesicle-mediated transport and synaptic signaling proteins in the cytosol, and neuronal calcium-binding protein 1 in NSM. Our study identified PFC modulated proteins and affected biochemical pathways that may represent potential markers/targets underlying CSIS-induced depression and effective Flx treatment, and highlights the role of protein systems involved in NSM and various metabolic pathways potentially involved in neuronal plasticity.
PXD023252	35965411	DDX5 mRNA-targeting antisense oligonucleotide as a new promising therapeutic in combating castration-resistant prostate cancer. 	DDX5 promotes prostate cancer progression and activates DNA repair pathway	AP-MS, Castration Resistant Prostate Cancer (CRPC), DDX5, DNA damage response, HSP27, interactome	The heat shock protein 27 (Hsp27) has emerged as a principal factor of the castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) progression. Also, an antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) against Hsp27 (OGX-427 or apatorsen) has been assessed in different clinical trials. Here, we illustrate that Hsp27 highly regulates the expression of the human DEAD-box protein 5 (DDX5), and we define DDX5 as a novel therapeutic target for CRPC treatment. DDX5 overexpression is strongly correlated with aggressive tumor features, notably with CRPC. DDX5 downregulation using a specific ASO-based inhibitor that acts on DDX5 mRNAs inhibits cell proliferation in preclinical models, and it particularly restores the treatment sensitivity of CRPC. Interestingly, through the identification and analysis of DDX5 protein interaction networks, we have identified some specific functions of DDX5 in CRPC that could contribute actively to tumor progression and therapeutic resistance. We first present the interactions of DDX5 and the Ku70/80 heterodimer and the transcription factor IIH, thereby uncovering DDX5 roles in different DNA repair pathways. Collectively, our study highlights critical functions of DDX5 contributing to CRPC progression and provides preclinical proof of concept that a combination of ASO-directed DDX5 inhibition with a DNA damage-inducing therapy can serve as a highly potential novel strategy to treat CRPC.
PXD032382	35966685	The molecular diversity of transcriptional factor TfoX is a determinant in natural transformation in Glaesserella parasuis. 	comparative proteomics studies  of the wild strain SC1401 and the tfoX deficient strain	Glaesserella parasuis, tfoX	Natural transformation is a mechanism by which a particular bacterial species takes up foreign DNA and integrates it into its genome. The swine pathogen Glaesserella parasuis (G. parasuis) is a naturally transformable bacterium. The regulation of competence, however, is not fully understood. In this study, the natural transformability of 99 strains was investigated. Only 44% of the strains were transformable under laboratory conditions. Through a high-resolution melting curve and phylogenetic analysis, we found that genetic differences in the core regulator of natural transformation, the tfoX gene, leads to two distinct natural transformation phenotypes. In the absence of the tfoX gene, the highly transformable strain SC1401 lost its natural transformability. In addition, when the SC1401 tfoX gene was replaced by the tfoX of SH0165, which has no natural transformability, competence was also lost. These results suggest that TfoX is a core regulator of natural transformation in G. parasuis, and that differences in tfoX can be used as a molecular indicator of natural transformability. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of the SC1401 wildtype strain, and a tfoX gene deletion strain showed that differential gene expression and protein synthesis is mainly centered on pathways related to glucose metabolism. The results suggest that tfoX may mediate natural transformation by regulating the metabolism of carbon sources. Our study provides evidence that tfoX plays an important role in the natural transformation of G. parasuis.
PXD033928	35966872	Comparative proteomic and clinicopathological analysis of breast adenoid cystic carcinoma and basal-like triple-negative breast cancer. 	Comparative proteomic and clinicopathlogical analysis of breast adenoid cystic carcinoma and basal-like triple-negative breast cancer	Adenoid cystic carcinoma, Bioinformatics, Breast cancer biology, Triple-negative breast cancer	Background: Adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) is a rare type of triple-negative breast cancer that has an indolent clinical behavior. Given the substantial overlapping morphological, immunohistochemical, and molecular features with other basal-like triple-negative breast cancer (BL-TNBC), accurate diagnosis of ACC is crucial for effective clinical treatment. The integrative analysis of the proteome and clinicopathological characteristics may help to distinguish these two neoplasms and provide a deep understanding on biological behaviors and potential target therapy of ACC. Methods: We applied mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics to analyze the protein expression in paired tumor and adjacent normal breast tissue of five ACC and five BL-TNBC. Bioinformatic analyses and the clinicopathological characteristics, including histological features, immunohistochemistry, and FISH results, were also collected to get comprehensive information. Results: A total of 307 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified between ACC and BL-TNBC. Clustering analysis of DEPs clearly separated ACC from BL-TNBC. GSEA found downregulation of the immune response of ACC compared with BL-TNBC, which is consistent with the negative PD-L1 expression of ACC. Vesicle-mediated transport was also inhibited, while ECM organization was enriched in ACC. The top upregulated proteins in DEPs were ITGB4, VCAN, and DPT. Moreover, in comparison with normal breast tissue, ACC showed elevated ribosome biogenesis and RNA splicing activity. Conclusion: This study provides evidence that ACC presents a substantially different proteomic profile compared with BL-TNBC and promotes our understanding on the molecular mechanisms and biological processes of ACC, which might be useful for differential diagnosis and anticancer strategy.
PXD032247	35966924	Application of plasma metabolome for monitoring the effect of rivaroxaban in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. 	Metabolomics analysis of Rivaroxaban	Rivaroxaban, metabolomics	Rivaroxaban, an oral factor Xa inhibitor, has been used to treating a series of thromboembolic disorders in clinical practice. Measurement of the anticoagulant effect of rivaroxaban is important to avoid serious bleeding events, thus ensuring the safety and efficacy of drug administration. Metabolomics could help to predict differences in the responses among patients by profiling metabolites in biosamples. In this study, plasma metabolomes before and 3 hours after rivaroxaban intake in 150 nonvalvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) patients and 100 age/gender-matched controls were analyzed by liquid chromatography coupled with mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). When compared with controls, a total of thirteen plasma metabolites were differentially expressed in the NVAF patients. Pathway analysis revealed that purine and lipid metabolism were dysregulated. A panel of three metabolites (17a-ethynylestradiol, tryptophyl-glutamate and adenosine) showed good predictive ability to distinguish nonvalvular atrial fibrillation with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) of 1 for the discovery phase and 1 for validation. Under rivaroxaban treatment, a total of seven metabolites changed, the lipid and glycosylphosphatidylinositol biosynthesis pathways were altered and the panel consisting of avocadene, prenyl glucoside and phosphatidylethanolamine showed predictive ability with an AUC of 0.86 for the discovery dataset and 0.82 for the validation. The study showed that plasma metabolomic analyses hold the potential to differentiate nonvalvular atrial fibrillation and can help to monitor the effect of rivaroxaban anticoagulation.
PXD035415	35969127	Differential roles and regulation of the protein kinases PAK4, PAK5 and PAK6 in melanoma cells. 	Differential roles and regulation of the protein kinases PAK4, PAK5 and PAK6 in melanoma cells	14â€3â€3, PAK4, PAK5 (also known as PAK7, PAK6, melanoma, ohnologue/ohnolog, signalling networks	The protein kinases PAK4, PAK5 and PAK6 comprise a family of ohnologues. In multiple cancers including melanomas PAK5 most frequently carries non-synonymous mutations; PAK6 and PAK4 have fewer; and PAK4 is often amplified. To help interpret these genomic data, initially we compared the cellular regulation of the sister kinases and their roles in melanoma cells. In common with many ohnologue protein kinases, PAK4, PAK5 and PAK6 each have two 14-3-3-binding phosphosites of which phosphoSer99 is conserved. PAK4 localises to the leading edge of cells in response to phorbol ester-stimulated binding of 14-3-3 to phosphoSer99 and phosphoSer181, which are phosphorylated by two different PKCs or PKDs. These phosphorylations of PAK4 are essential for its phorbol ester-stimulated phosphorylation of downstream substrates. In contrast, 14-3-3 interacts with PAK5 in response to phorbol ester-stimulated phosphorylation of Ser99 and epidermal growth factor-stimulated phosphorylation of Ser288; whereas PAK6 docks onto 14-3-3 and is prevented from localising to cell-cell junctions when Ser133 is phosphorylated in response to cAMP-elevating agents via PKA and insulin-like growth factor 1 via PKB/Akt. Silencing of PAK4 impairs viability, migration and invasive behaviour of melanoma cells carrying BRAFV600E or NRASQ61K mutations. These defects are rescued by ectopic expression of PAK4, more so by a 14-3-3-binding deficient PAK4, and barely by PAK5 or PAK6. Together these genomic, biochemical and cellular data suggest that the oncogenic properties of PAK4 are regulated by PKC-PKD signalling in melanoma, while PAK5 and PAK6 are dispensable in this cancer.
PXD033780	35969671	Evaluation of a Pooling Chemoproteomics Strategy with an FDA-Approved Drug Library. 	Evaluation of a Pooling Chemoproteomics Strategy with an FDA-approved Drug Library	FDA library, PROTAC, chemoproteomics, molecular glue, pooling strategy, tandem mass tag, targeted protein degeneration	Chemoproteomics is a key platform for characterizing the mode of action for compounds, especially for targeted protein degraders such as proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) and molecular glues. With deep proteome coverage, multiplexed tandem mass tag-mass spectrometry (TMT-MS) can tackle up to 18 samples in a single experiment. Here, we present a pooling strategy for further enhancing the throughput and apply the strategy to an FDA-approved drug library (95 best-in-class compounds). The TMT-MS-based pooling strategy was evaluated in the following steps. First, we demonstrated the capability of TMT-MS by analyzing more than 15 000 unique proteins (> 12 000 gene products) in HEK293 cells treated with five PROTACs (two BRD/BET degraders and three degraders for FAK, ALK, and BTK kinases). We then introduced a rationalized pooling strategy to separate structurally similar compounds in different pools and identified the proteomic response to 14 pools from the drug library. Finally, we validated the proteomic response from one pool by reprofiling the cells via treatment with individual drugs with sufficient replicates. Interestingly, numerous proteins were found to change upon drug treatment, including AMD1, ODC1, PRKX, PRKY, EXO1, AEN, and LRRC58 with 7-hydroxystaurosporine; C6orf64, HMGCR, and RRM2 with Sorafenib; SYS1 and ALAS1 with Venetoclax; and ATF3, CLK1, and CLK4 with Palbocilib. Thus, pooling chemoproteomics screening provides an efficient method for dissecting the molecular targets of compound libraries.
PXD034270	35969743	O-GlcNAcylation promotes cerebellum development and medulloblastoma oncogenesis via SHH signaling. 	O-GlcNAcylation Promotes Cerebellum Development and Medulloblastoma Oncogenesis via SHH Signaling	O-GlcNAc transferase, O-GlcNAcylation, Sonic hedgehog	Sonic hedgehog (Shh) signaling plays a critical role in regulating cerebellum development by maintaining the physiological proliferation of granule neuron precursors (GNPs), and its dysregulation leads to the oncogenesis of medulloblastoma. O-GlcNAcylation (O-GlcNAc) of proteins is an emerging regulator of brain function that maintains normal development and neuronal circuitry. Here, we demonstrate that O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) in GNPs mediate the cerebellum development, and the progression of the Shh subgroup of medulloblastoma. Specifically, OGT regulates the neurogenesis of GNPs by activating the Shh signaling pathway via O-GlcNAcylation at S355 of GLI family zinc finger 2 (Gli2), which in turn promotes its deacetylation and transcriptional activity via dissociation from p300, a histone acetyltransferases. Inhibition of OGT via genetic ablation or chemical inhibition improves survival in a medulloblastoma mouse model. These data uncover a critical role for O-GlcNAc signaling in cerebellar development, and pinpoint a potential therapeutic target for Shh-associated medulloblastoma.
PXD028379	35969774	Noncanonical PDK4 action alters mitochondrial dynamics to affect the cellular respiratory status. 	pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 regulate mitochondrial dynamics	DRP1, Mitochondrial dynamics, SILAC, pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4	Dynamic regulation of mitochondrial morphology provides cells with the flexibility required to adapt and respond to electron transport chain (ETC) toxins and mitochondrial DNA-linked disease mutations, yet the mechanisms underpinning the regulation of mitochondrial dynamics machinery by these stimuli is poorly understood. Here, we show that pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (PDK4) is genetically required for cells to undergo rapid mitochondrial fragmentation when challenged with ETC toxins. Moreover, PDK4 overexpression was sufficient to promote mitochondrial fission even in the absence of mitochondrial stress. Importantly, we observed that the PDK4-mediated regulation of mitochondrial fission was independent of its canonical function, i.e., inhibitory phosphorylation of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDC). Phosphoproteomic screen for PDK4 substrates, followed by nonphosphorylatable and phosphomimetic mutations of the PDK4 site revealed cytoplasmic GTPase, Septin 2 (SEPT2), as the key effector molecule that acts as a receptor for DRP1 in the outer mitochondrial membrane to promote mitochondrial fission. Conversely, inhibition of the PDK4-SEPT2 axis could restore the balance in mitochondrial dynamics and reinvigorates cellular respiration in mitochondrial fusion factor, mitofusin 2-deficient cells. Furthermore, PDK4-mediated mitochondrial reshaping limits mitochondrial bioenergetics and supports cancer cell growth. Our results identify the PDK4-SEPT2-DRP1 axis as a regulator of mitochondrial function at the interface between cellular bioenergetics and mitochondrial dynamics.
PXD032862	35970389	Transcriptional regulator Taf14 binds DNA and is required for the function of transcription factor TFIID in the absence of histone H2A.Z. 	Identification of interactions of Taf2 and Taf14 proteins.	TFIID	The transcriptional regulator Taf14 is a component of multiple protein complexes involved in transcription initiation and chromatin remodeling in yeast cells. Although Taf14 is not required for cell viability, it becomes essential in conditions where the formation of the transcription preinitiation complex is hampered. The specific role of Taf14 in mediating transcription initiation and preinitiation complex formation is unclear. Here, we explored its role in the general transcription factor IID by mapping Taf14 genetic and proteomic interactions and found that it was needed for the function of the complex if Htz1, the yeast homolog of histone H2A.Z, was absent from chromatin. Dissecting the functional domains of Taf14 revealed that the linker region between the YEATS and ET domains was required for cell viability in the absence of Htz1 protein. We further show that the linker region of Taf14 interacts with DNA. We propose that providing additional DNA binding capacity might be a general role of Taf14 in the recruitment of protein complexes to DNA and chromatin.
PXD023842	35971119	Clinical characteristics and proteome modifications in two Charcot-Marie-Tooth families with the AARS1 Arg326Trp mutation. 	Clinical and molecular characteristics indicate mitochondrial dysfunction in Charcot-Marie-Tooth families with the AARS1 Arg326Trp mutation	AARS1, CMT2, mitochondrial dysfunction, peripheral neuropathy	BACKGROUND: Aminoacyl tRNA-synthetases are ubiquitously-expressed enzymes that attach amino acids to their cognate tRNA molecules. Mutations in several genes encoding aminoacyl tRNA-synthetases, have been associated with peripheral neuropathy, i.e. AARS1, GARS1, HARS1, YARS1 and WARS1. The pathogenic mechanism underlying AARS1-related neuropathy is not known. METHODS: From 2012 onward, all probands presenting at Telemark Hospital (Skien, Norway) with peripheral neuropathy were screened for variants in AARS1 using an "in-house" next-generation sequencing panel. DNA from patient's family members was examined by Sanger sequencing. Blood from affected family members and healthy controls were used for quantification of AARS1 mRNA and alanine. Proteomic analyses were conducted in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) from four affected family members and five healthy controls. RESULTS: Seventeen individuals in two Norwegian families affected by Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease (CMT) were characterized in this study. The heterozygous NM_001605.2:c.976C > T p.(Arg326Trp) AARS1 mutation was identified in ten affected family members. All living carriers had a mild to severe length-dependent sensorimotor neuropathy. Three deceased obligate carriers aged 74-98 were reported to be unaffected, but were not examined in the clinic. Proteomic studies in PBMC from four affected individuals suggest an effect on the immune system mediated by components of a systemic response to chronic injury and inflammation. Furthermore, altered expression of proteins linked to mitochondrial function/dysfunction was observed. Proteomic data are available via ProteomeXchange using identifier PXD023842. CONCLUSION: This study describes clinical and neurophysiological features linked to the p.(Arg326Trp) variant of AARS1 in CMT-affected members of two Norwegian families. Proteomic analyses based on of PBMC from four CMT-affected individuals suggest that involvement of inflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction might contribute to AARS1 variant-associated peripheral neuropathy.
PXD029358	35972388	Glutamate 1-semialdehyde aminotransferase is connected to GluTR by GluTR-binding protein and contributes to the rate-limiting step of 5-aminolevulinic acid synthesis. 	Function of two GSA isoforms in Arabidopsis thaliana	PPI, cross link	Tetrapyrroles play fundamental roles in crucial processes including photosynthesis, respiration, and catalysis. In plants, 5-aminolevulinic acid (ALA) is the common precursor of tetrapyrroles. ALA is synthesized from activated glutamate by the enzymes glutamyl-tRNA reductase (GluTR) and glutamate-1-semialdehyde aminotransferase (GSAAT). ALA synthesis is recognized as the rate-limiting step in this pathway. We aimed to explore the contribution of GSAAT to the control of ALA synthesis and the formation of a protein complex with GluTR. In Arabidopsis thaliana, two genes encode GSAAT isoforms: GSA1 and GSA2. A comparison of two GSA knockout mutants with the wild-type revealed the correlation of reduced GSAAT activity and ALA-synthesizing capacity in leaves with lower chlorophyll content. Growth and green pigmentation were more severely impaired in gsa2 than in gsa1, indicating the predominant role of GSAAT2 in ALA synthesis. Interestingly, GluTR accumulated to higher levels in gsa2 than in the wild-type and was mainly associated with the plastid membrane. We propose that the GSAAT content modulates the amount of soluble GluTR available for ALA synthesis. Several different biochemical approaches revealed the GSAAT-GluTR interaction through the assistance of GluTR-binding protein (GBP). A modeled structure of the tripartite protein complex indicated that GBP mediates the stable association of GluTR and GSAAT for adequate ALA synthesis.
PXD023626	35973030	IGF-binding proteins secreted by cancer-associated fibroblasts induce context-dependent drug sensitization of lung cancer cells. 	Paradoxical drug sensitization of lung cancer cells by stromal fibroblast-secreted IGF-binding proteins: Secretomics	Fibroblasts, Lung Cancer, Secretomics, Targeted Therapy	Cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) in the tumor microenvironment are often linked to drug resistance. Here, we found that coculture with CAFs or culture in CAF-conditioned medium unexpectedly induced drug sensitivity in certain lung cancer cell lines. Gene expression and secretome analyses of CAFs and normal lung-associated fibroblasts (NAFs) revealed differential abundance of insulin-like growth factors (IGFs) and IGF-binding proteins (IGFBPs), which promoted or inhibited, respectively, signaling by the receptor IGF1R and the kinase FAK. Similar drug sensitization was seen in gefitinib-resistant, EGFR-mutant PC9GR lung cancer cells treated with recombinant IGFBPs. Conversely, drug sensitivity was decreased by recombinant IGFs or conditioned medium from CAFs in which IGFBP5 or IGFBP6 was silenced. Phosphoproteomics and receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) array analyses indicated that exposure of PC9GR cells to CAF-conditioned medium also inhibited compensatory IGF1R and FAK signaling induced by the EGFR inhibitor osimertinib. Combined small-molecule inhibition of IGF1R and FAK phenocopied the CAF-mediated effects in culture and increased the antitumor effect of osimertinib in mice. Cells that were osimertinib resistant and had MET amplification or showed epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition also displayed residual sensitivity to IGFBPs. Thus, CAFs promote or reduce drug resistance in a context-dependent manner, and deciphering the relationship between the differential content of CAF secretomes and the signaling dependencies of the tumor may reveal effective combination treatment strategies.
PXD029874	35974250	Quantitative reactive cysteinome profiling reveals a functional link between ferroptosis and proteasome-mediated degradation. 	Quantitative reactive cysteinome profiling reveals a functional link between ferroptosis and proteasome-mediated degradation.	DJ-1, Ferroptosis, Functional Cysteinome, Quantitative chemical proteomics	Ferroptosis is a unique type of cell death that is hallmarked with the imbalanced redox homeostasis as triggered by iron-dependent lipid peroxidation. Cysteines often play critical roles in proteins to help maintain a healthy cellular environment by dynamically switching between their reduced and oxidized forms, however, how the global redox landscape of cysteinome is perturbed upon ferroptosis remains unknown to date. By using a quantitative chemical proteomic strategy, we systematically profiled the dynamic changes of cysteinome in ferroptotic cells and identified a list of candidate sites whose redox states are precisely regulated under ferroptosis-inducing and rescuing conditions. In particular, C106 of the protein/nucleic acid deglycase DJ-1 acts as an intriguing sensor switch for the ferroptotic condition, whose oxidation results in the disruption of its interaction with the 20S proteasome and leads to a marked activation in the proteasome system. Our chemoproteomic profiling and associated functional studies reveal a novel functional link between ferroptosis and the proteasome-mediated protein degradation. It also suggests proteasome as a promising target for developing treatment strategies for ferroptosis-related diseases.
PXD035785	35974424	Comprehensive proteomic analysis reveals dynamic phospho-profiling in human early erythropoiesis. 	The proteome and phosphorylproteome of human early erythropoiesis	erythropoiesis, phosphorylproteome	Normal early erythropoiesis depends on the precise regulation of protein expression and phosphorylation modification. Dysregulation of protein levels or modification contributes to erythroid disorders. To date, the dynamics of protein phosphorylation profiling across human erythroid development is not fully understood. Here, we characterized quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling by tandem mass-tagging technology. We systemically built phospho-expression profiling and expression clusters of 11 414 phosphopeptides for human early erythropoiesis. The standardization methods for multitier integrative analyses revealed multiple functional modules of phosphoproteins (e.g., regulation of the G2/M transition) and active phosphorylated signalling (e.g., cell cycle-related pathways). Our further analysis revealed that CDK family members were the main kinases that phosphorylate substrates in erythroid progenitors and identified that CDK9 played an important role in the proliferation of erythroid progenitors. Collectively, our phosphoproteomic profiling, integrative network analysis and functional studies define landscapes of the phosphoproteome and reveal signalling pathways that are involved in human early erythropoiesis. This study will serve as a valuable resource for further investigations of phosphatase and kinase functions in human erythropoiesis and erythroid-related diseases.
PXD033650	35976251	Temporal and thermal profiling of the Toxoplasma proteome implicates parasite Protein Phosphatase 1 in the regulation of Ca(2+)-responsive pathways. 	De novo mapping of the apicomplexan Ca2+-responsive proteome: concentration range thermal profiling experiment 2	CETSA, TPP, Toxoplasma, apicomplexan, calcium signaling, parasite, systems biology, thermal proteome profiling	Apicomplexan parasites cause persistent mortality and morbidity worldwide through diseases including malaria, toxoplasmosis, and cryptosporidiosis. Ca(2+) signaling pathways have been repurposed in these eukaryotic pathogens to regulate parasite-specific cellular processes governing the replicative and lytic phases of the infectious cycle, as well as the transition between them. Despite the presence of conserved Ca(2+)-responsive proteins, little is known about how specific signaling elements interact to impact pathogenesis. We mapped the Ca(2+)-responsive proteome of the model apicomplexan Taxoplasma gondii via time-resolved phosphoproteomics and thermal proteome profiling. The waves of phosphoregulation following PKG activation and stimulated Ca(2+) release corroborate known physiological changes but identify specific proteins operating in these pathways. Thermal profiling of parasite extracts identified many expected Ca(2+)-responsive proteins, such as parasite Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinases. Our approach also identified numerous Ca(2+)-responsive proteins that are not predicted to bind Ca(2+), yet are critical components of the parasite signaling network. We characterized protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) as a Ca(2+)-responsive enzyme that relocalized to the parasite apex upon Ca(2+) store release. Conditional depletion of PP1 revealed that the phosphatase regulates Ca(2+) uptake to promote parasite motility. PP1 may thus be partly responsible for Ca(2+)-regulated serine/threonine phosphatase activity in apicomplexan parasites.
PXD021774	35976696	Evidence for low-level translation in human erythrocytes. 	Translation in human mature erythrocytes	Erythrocytes, Globin, RNA, Translation	It is generally believed that human mature erythrocytes do not possess functional ribosomes and therefore cannot synthesize proteins. However, the absence of translation is not consistent with the long lifespan of mature erythrocytes. They stay viable and functional for about 115 d in the circulatory system. Here, using a highly pure preparation of human mature erythrocytes, we demonstrate the presence of translation by polysome profiling, [(35)S]methionine labeling, and RiboPuromycylation. [(35)S]methionine labeling revealed that the translation in mature erythrocytes is about 10% of that observed in reticulocytes. We could observe polysomes by transmission electron microscopy in these cells. RNA-seq and quantitative real-time PCR performed on polysome fractions of these cells revealed that HBA (alpha-globin) and HBB (beta-globin) transcripts are translated. Using a luciferase-based reporter assay and mutational studies, we show that the sequence of the 5' untranslated region is crucial for the translation of these transcripts. Furthermore, mature erythrocytes showed reduced expression of globin proteins (alpha- and beta-) when treated with translation inhibitors. Overall, we provide multiple lines of evidence for translation of globin mRNAs in human mature erythrocytes.
PXD030258	35977508	Mitochondrial microproteins link metabolic cues to respiratory chain biogenesis. 	Mitochondrial microproteins link metabolic cues to respiratory chain biogenesis	OXPHOS, SEP, metabolism, micropeptides, mitochondria	Electron transport chain (ETC) biogenesis is tightly coupled to energy levels and availability of ETC subunits. Complex III (CIII), controlling ubiquinol:ubiquinone ratio in ETC, is an attractive node for modulating ETC levels during metabolic stress. Here, we report the discovery of mammalian Co-ordinator of mitochondrial CYTB (COM) complexes that regulate the stepwise CIII biogenesis in response to nutrient and nuclear-encoded ETC subunit availability. The COMA complex, consisting of UQCC1/2 and membrane anchor C16ORF91, facilitates translation of CIII enzymatic core subunit CYTB. Subsequently, microproteins SMIM4 and BRAWNIN together with COMA subunits form the COMB complex to stabilize nascent CYTB. Finally, UQCC3-containing COMC facilitates CYTB hemylation and association with downstream CIII subunits. Furthermore, when nuclear CIII subunits are limiting, COMB is required to chaperone nascent CYTB to prevent OXPHOS collapse. Our studies highlight CYTB synthesis as a key regulatory node of ETC biogenesis and uncover the roles of microproteins in maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis.
PXD035070	35977718	Subgroup-Enriched Pathways and Kinase Signatures in Medulloblastoma Patient-Derived Xenografts. 	Medulloblastoma Patient-Derived Xenograft Proteomics	Medulloblastoma, patient-derived xenograft (PDX), phosphoproteomics	Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most common malignant pediatric brain tumor. MB is classified into four primary molecular subgroups: wingless (WNT), sonic hedgehog (SHH), Group 3 (G3), and Group 4 (G4), and further genomic and proteomic subtypes have been reported. Subgroup heterogeneity and few actionable mutations have hindered the development of targeted therapies, especially for G3 MB, which has a particularly poor prognosis. To identify novel therapeutic targets for MB, we performed mass spectrometry-based deep expression proteomics and phosphoproteomics in 20 orthotopic patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models of MB comprising SHH, G3, and G4 subgroups. We found that the proteomic profiles of MB PDX tumors are closely aligned with those of primary human MB tumors illustrating the utility of PDX models. SHH PDXs were enriched for NFkappaB and p38 MAPK signaling, while G3 PDXs were characterized by MYC activity. Additionally, we found a significant association between actinomycin D sensitivity and increased abundance of MYC and MYC target genes. Our results highlight several candidate pathways that may serve as targets for new MB therapies. Mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD035070.
PXD031349	35977993	Longitudinal proteomics study of serum changes after allogeneic HSCT reveals potential markers of metabolic complications related to aGvHD. 	Longitudinal proteomics study of serum changes after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation reveals potential markers of metabolic complications related to acute graft-versus-host disease	2-DE, serum	Even though hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) allows successful treatment for many malignant and non-malignant disorders, its curative potential remains limited by severe side effects, including infections and other transplant-related complications such as graft-versus-host disease (GvHD). This study examined changes in serum proteome via high-performance two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) during HSCT to search for diagnostic biomarkers for post-HSCT complications. Longitudinal proteomic analysis revealed proteins related to metabolic complications and hemolytic anemia. Retinol-binding protein 4 (RBP4), a reliable marker of insulin resistance, was identified, and is possibly associated with the onset mechanism of acute graft-versus-host disease (aGvHD) and/or skin GvHD. Although the cause of insulin resistance is not fully understood, it is thought to be associated with adipocytes inflammation induced by RBP4, iron overload and hemolytic anemia after HSCT, as observed in this study. The present study has demonstrated that insulin resistance and metabolic complications could be immediate complications after transplantation and are associated with aGvHD. The biomarkers revealed in this study are promising tools to be used for improving the early diagnosis of HSCT-associated complications, especially aGvHD, possibly even before clinical manifestations.
PXD035263	35978143	The spike of SARS-CoV-2 promotes metabolic rewiring in hepatocytes. 	Binding of the spike of SARS-CoV-2 to steatotic hepatocytes promotes metabolic dysfunction	Covid-19, Liver energy metabolism, Metformin, NASH, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, hACE2 mice	Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) causes a multi-organ damage that includes hepatic dysfunction, which has been observed in over 50% of COVID-19 patients. Liver injury in COVID-19 could be attributed to the cytopathic effects, exacerbated immune responses or treatment-associated drug toxicity. Herein we demonstrate that hepatocytes are susceptible to infection in different models: primary hepatocytes derived from humanized angiotensin-converting enzyme-2 mice (hACE2) and primary human hepatocytes. Pseudotyped viral particles expressing the full-length spike of SARS-CoV-2 and recombinant receptor binding domain (RBD) bind to ACE2 expressed by hepatocytes, promoting metabolic reprogramming towards glycolysis but also impaired mitochondrial activity. Human and hACE2 primary hepatocytes, where steatosis and inflammation were induced by methionine and choline deprivation, are more vulnerable to infection. Inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system increases the susceptibility of primary hepatocytes to infection with pseudotyped viral particles. Metformin, a common therapeutic option for hyperglycemia in type 2 diabetes patients known to partially attenuate fatty liver, reduces the infection of human and hACE2 hepatocytes. In summary, we provide evidence that hepatocytes are amenable to infection with SARS-CoV-2 pseudovirus, and we propose that metformin could be a therapeutic option to attenuate infection by SARS-CoV-2 in patients with fatty liver.
PXD035218	35979633	Optimized Workflow for Enrichment and Identification of Biotinylated Peptides Using Tamavidin 2-REV for BioID and Cell Surface Proteomics. 	Reduction of Interference Ions Generated in the Enrichment Process of Biotinylated Peptides using Tamavidin 2-REV	BioID, Biotinylated Peptides, Tamavidin 2-REV	Chemical or enzymatic biotinylation of proteins is widely used in various studies, and proximity-dependent biotinylation coupled to mass spectrometry is a powerful approach for analyzing protein-protein interactions in living cells. We recently developed a simple method to enrich biotinylated peptides using Tamavidin 2-REV, an engineered avidin-like protein with reversible biotin-binding capability. However, the level of biotinylated proteins in cells is low; therefore, large amounts of cellular proteins were required to detect biotinylated peptides. In addition, the enriched biotinylated peptide solution contained many contaminant ions. Here, we optimized the workflow for efficient enrichment of biotinylated peptides and removal of contaminant ions. The efficient recovery of biotinylated peptides with fewer contaminant ions was achieved by heat inactivation of trypsin, prewashing Tamavidin 2-REV beads, clean-up of biotin solution, mock elution, and using optimal temperature and salt concentration for elution. The optimized workflow enabled identification of nearly 4-fold more biotinylated peptides with higher purity from RAW264.7 macrophages expressing TurboID-fused STING (stimulator of interferon genes). In addition, sequential digestion with Glu-C and trypsin revealed biotinylation sites that were not identified by trypsin digestion alone. Furthermore, the combination of this workflow with TMT labeling enabled large-scale quantification of cell surface proteome changes upon epidermal growth factor (EGF) stimulation. This workflow will be useful for BioID and cell surface proteomics and for various other applications based on protein biotinylation.
PXD035923	35980033	A Conundrum of r-Protein Stability: Unbalanced Stoichiometry of r-Proteins during Stationary Phase in Escherichia coli. 	Ribosome r-protein content during stationary phase	E.coli, Ribosome, ribosomal proteins	Bacterial ribosomes are composed of three rRNA and over 50 ribosomal protein (r-protein) molecules. r-proteins are essential for ribosome assembly and structural stability and also participate in almost all ribosome functions. Ribosomal components are present in stoichiometric amounts in the mature 70S ribosomes during exponential and early stationary growth phases. Ribosomes are degraded in stationary phase; however, the stability and fate of r-proteins during stationary growth phase are not known. In this study, we report a quantitative analysis of ribosomal components during extended stationary-phase growth in Escherichia coli. We show that (i) the quantity of ribosomes per cell mass decreases in stationary phase, (ii) 70S ribosomes contain r-proteins in stoichiometric amounts, (iii) 30S subunits are degraded faster than 50S subunits, (iv) the quantities of 21 r-proteins in the total proteome decrease during 14 days (short-lived r-proteins) concomitantly with the reduction of cellular RNA, and (e) 30 r-proteins are stable and form a pool of free r-proteins (stable r-proteins). Thus, r-proteins are present in nonstoichiometric amounts in the proteome of E. coli during the extended stationary phase. IMPORTANCE Ribosome degradation has been extensively described from the viewpoint of its main component, rRNA. Here, we aim to complement our knowledge by quantitatively analyzing r-protein degradation and stability both in the ribosomes and in the whole-cell proteome during stationary phase in E. coli. r-proteins are considered to be very stable in the proteome. Here, we show that a specific set of r-proteins are rapidly degraded after release from the rRNA. The degradation of r-proteins is an intriguing new aspect of r-protein metabolism in bacteria.
PXD032092	35980206	UBR5 Acts as an Antiviral Host Factor against MERS-CoV via Promoting Ubiquitination and Degradation of ORF4b. 	Mass spectrometry data of identified proteins of MERS-CoV ORF4b interacting protein	293T, Interacting proteins, MERS-CoV, ORF4b	Within the past 2 decades, three highly pathogenic human coronaviruses have emerged, namely, severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV), Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS-CoV), and severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). The health threats and economic burden posed by these tremendously severe coronaviruses have paved the way for research on their etiology, pathogenesis, and treatment. Compared to SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2, MERS-CoV genome encoded fewer accessory proteins, among which the ORF4b protein had anti-immunity ability in both the cytoplasm and nucleus. Our work for the first time revealed that ORF4b protein was unstable in the host cells and could be degraded by the ubiquitin proteasome system. After extensive screenings, it was found that UBR5 (ubiquitin protein ligase E3 component N-recognin 5), a member of the HECT E3 ubiquitin ligases, specifically regulated the ubiquitination and degradation of ORF4b. Similar to ORF4b, UBR5 can also translocate into the nucleus through its nuclear localization signal, enabling it to regulate ORF4b stability in both the cytoplasm and nucleus. Through further experiments, lysine 36 was identified as the ubiquitination site on the ORF4b protein, and this residue was highly conserved in various MERS-CoV strains isolated from different regions. When UBR5 was knocked down, the ability of ORF4b to suppress innate immunity was enhanced and MERS-CoV replication was stronger. As an anti-MERS-CoV host protein, UBR5 targets and degrades ORF4b protein through the ubiquitin proteasome system, thereby attenuating the anti-immunity ability of ORF4b and ultimately inhibiting MERS-CoV immune escape, which is a novel antagonistic mechanism of the host against MERS-CoV infection. IMPORTANCE ORF4b was an accessory protein unique to MERS-CoV and was not present in SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 which can also cause severe respiratory disease. Moreover, ORF4b inhibited the production of antiviral cytokines in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus, which was likely to be associated with the high lethality of MERS-CoV. However, whether the host proteins regulate the function of ORF4b is unknown. Our study first determined that UBR5, a host E3 ligase, was a potential host anti-MERS-CoV protein that could reduce the protein level of ORF4b and diminish its anti-immunity ability by inducing ubiquitination and degradation. Based on the discovery of ORF4b-UBR5, a critical molecular target, further increasing the degradation of ORF4b caused by UBR5 could provide a new strategy for the clinical development of drugs for MERS-CoV.
PXD031624	35980225	Proteomic Investigation of the Antibacterial Mechanism of Cefiderocol against Escherichia coli. 	Proteomic Investigation of the Antibacterial Mechanism of Cefiderocol against Escherichia coli	Iron ions, NADH, ROS	This study aimed to investigate the antibacterial mechanism of cefiderocol (CFDC) using data-independent acquisition quantitative proteomics combined with cellular and molecular biological assays. Numerous differentially expressed proteins related to the production of NADH, reduced cofactor flavin adenine dinucleotide (FADH2), NADPH and reactive oxygen species (ROS), iron-sulfur cluster binding, and iron ion homeostasis were found to be upregulated by CFDC. Furthermore, parallel reaction monitoring analysis validated these results. Meanwhile, we confirmed that the levels of NADH, ROS, H2O2, and iron ions were induced by CFDC, and the sensitivity of Escherichia coli to CFDC was inhibited by the antioxidant vitamin C, N-acetyl-l-cysteine, and deferoxamine. Moreover, deferoxamine also suppressed the H2O2 stress induced by CFDC. In addition, knockout of the NADH-quinone oxidoreductase genes (nuoA, nuoC, nuoE, nuoF, nuoG, nuoJ, nuoL, nuoM) in the respiratory chain attenuated the sensitivity of E. coli to CFDC far beyond the effects of cefepime and ceftazidime; in particular, the E. coli BW25113 DeltanuoJ strain produced 60-fold increases in MIC to CFDC compared to that of the wild-type E. coli BW25113 strain. The present study revealed that CFDC exerts its antibacterial effects by inducing ROS stress by elevating the levels of NADH and iron ions in E. coli. IMPORTANCE CFDC was the first FDA-approved siderophore cephalosporin antibiotic in 2019 and is known for its Trojan horse tactics and broad antimicrobial activity against Gram-negative bacteria. However, its antibacterial mechanism is not fully understood, and whether it has an impact on in vivo iron ion homeostasis remains unknown. To comprehensively reveal the antibacterial mechanisms of CFDC, data-independent acquisition quantitative proteomics combined with cellular and molecular biological assays were performed in this study. The findings will further facilitate our understanding of the antibacterial mechanism of CFDC and may provide a theoretical foundation for controlling CFDC resistance in the future.
PXD026720	35980303	CDK9 and PP2A regulate RNA polymerase II transcription termination and coupled RNA maturation. 	Identification of CDK9 targets using DRB and quantitative phosphoproteomics	CDK9, DRB, HeLa, SILAC, phosphoproteomics	CDK9 is a kinase critical for the productive transcription of protein-coding genes by RNA polymerase II (pol II). As part of P-TEFb, CDK9 phosphorylates the carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD) of pol II and elongation factors, which allows pol II to elongate past the early elongation checkpoint (EEC) encountered soon after initiation. We show that, in addition to halting pol II at the EEC, loss of CDK9 activity causes premature termination of transcription across the last exon, loss of polyadenylation factors from chromatin, and loss of polyadenylation of nascent transcripts. Inhibition of the phosphatase PP2A abrogates the premature termination and loss of polyadenylation caused by CDK9 inhibition, indicating that this kinase/phosphatase pair regulates transcription elongation and RNA processing at the end of protein-coding genes. We also confirm the splicing factor SF3B1 as a target of CDK9 and show that SF3B1 in complex with polyadenylation factors is lost from chromatin after CDK9 inhibition. These results emphasize the important roles that CDK9 plays in coupling transcription elongation and termination to RNA maturation downstream of the EEC.
PXD023804	35982173	Differential ion mobility mass spectrometry in immunopeptidomics identifies neoantigens carrying colorectal cancer driver mutations. 	Identification of HLA class I immunopeptide from human colon tissue (Normal)	FAIMS, HLA Class I, Immunopeptide, colon tissue, normal adjacent tissue	Understanding the properties of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) peptides (immunopeptides) is essential for precision cancer medicine, while the direct identification of immunopeptides from small biopsies of clinical tissues by mass spectrometry (MS) is still confronted with technical challenges. Here, to overcome these hindrances, high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) is introduced to conduct differential ion mobility (DIM)-MS by seamless gas-phase fractionation optimal for scarce samples. By established DIM-MS for immunopeptidomics analysis, on average, 42.9 mg of normal and tumor colorectal tissues from identical patients (n = 17) were analyzed, and on average 4921 immunopeptides were identified. Among these 44,815 unique immunopeptides, two neoantigens, KRAS-G12V and CPPED1-R228Q, were identified. These neoantigens were confirmed by synthetic peptides through targeted MS in parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) mode. Comparison of the tissue-based personal immunopeptidome revealed tumor-specific processing of immunopeptides. Since the direct identification of neoantigens from tumor tissues suggested that more potential neoantigens have yet to be identified, we screened cell lines with known oncogenic KRAS mutations and identified 2 more neoantigens that carry KRAS-G12V. These results indicated that the established FAIMS-assisted DIM-MS is effective in the identification of immunopeptides and potential recurrent neoantigens directly from scarce samples such as clinical tissues.
PXD033233	35982897	The Novel Role of hnRNP UL1 in Human Cell Nucleoli. 	The novel role of hnRNP UL1 in rDNA transcription and rDNA repair in human cell nucleoli	nucleolus	hnRNP UL1 plays an important role in cell nuclei, where it is recruited to DNA damage sites and is involved in the repair of DNA double-strand breaks. Furthermore, this protein is known as a transcriptional repressor of RNA polymerase II genes. In the present study, we have shown that hnRNP UL1 is also localized in the nucleoli of human cells. Upon investigating its function, we found that hnRNP UL1 stimulates ribosomal DNA (rDNA) gene transcription. Moreover, we observed that cells with hnRNP UL1 silencing exhibited increased sensitivity to DNA damage. We also showed that hnRNP UL1 interacts with gammaH2A.X, RPA32, XRCC1, and Chk1 in cell nucleoli, suggesting its involvement in the repair of rDNA damage.
PXD026068	35984892	PDIA3 epitope-driven immune autoreactivity contributes to hepatic damage in type 2 diabetes. 	Nano LC-MS/MS DDA mass spectrometry profiling of I-Ab MHCII immunopeptidome eluted from B6 mice on normal and high fructose/high fat (HFHF) diet	DDA nanoLC-MS/MS, Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid mass spectrometer, mouse I-Ab immunopeptidome	A diet rich in saturated fat and carbohydrates causes low-grade chronic inflammation in several organs, including the liver, ultimately driving nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. In this setting, environment-driven lipotoxicity and glucotoxicity induce liver damage, which promotes dendritic cell activation and generates a major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) immunopeptidome enriched with peptides derived from proteins involved in cellular metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, and the stress responses. Here, we demonstrated that lipotoxicity and glucotoxicity, as driven by a high-fat and high-fructose (HFHF) diet, promoted MHC-II presentation of nested T and B cell epitopes from protein disulfide isomerase family A member 3 (PDIA3), which is involved in immunogenic cell death. Increased MHC-II presentation of PDIA3 peptides was associated with antigen-specific proliferation of hepatic CD4(+) immune infiltrates and isotype switch of anti-PDIA3 antibodies from IgM to IgG3, indicative of cellular and humoral PDIA3 autoreactivity. Passive transfer of PDIA3-specific T cells or PDIA3-specific antibodies also exacerbated hepatocyte death, as determined by increased hepatic transaminases detected in the sera of mice subjected to an HFHF but not control diet. Increased humoral responses to PDIA3 were also observed in patients with chronic inflammatory liver conditions, including autoimmune hepatitis, primary biliary cholangitis, and type 2 diabetes. Together, our data indicated that metabolic insults caused by an HFHF diet elicited liver damage and promoted pathogenic immune autoreactivity driven by T and B cell PDIA3 epitopes.
PXD032033	35985624	Functional Diversity and Evolution of the Drosophila Sperm Proteome. 	Functional diversity and evolution of the Drosophila sperm proteome	evolution, label-free quantitation, sperm	Spermatozoa are central to fertilization and the evolutionary fitness of sexually reproducing organisms. As such, a deeper understanding of sperm proteomes (and associated reproductive tissues) has proven critical to the advancement of the fields of sexual selection and reproductive biology. Due to their extraordinary complexity, proteome depth-of-coverage is dependent on advancements in technology and related bioinformatics, both of which have made significant advancements in the decade since the last Drosophila sperm proteome was published. Here, we provide an updated version of the Drosophila melanogaster sperm proteome (DmSP3) using improved separation and detection methods and an updated genome annotation. Combined with previous versions of the sperm proteome, the DmSP3 contains a total of 3176 proteins, and we provide the first label-free quantitation of the sperm proteome for 2125 proteins. The top 20 most abundant proteins included the structural elements alpha- and beta-tubulins and sperm leucyl-aminopeptidases. Both gene content and protein abundance were significantly reduced on the X chromosome, consistent with prior genomic studies of X chromosome evolution. We identified 9 of the 16 Y-linked proteins, including known testis-specific male fertility factors. We also identified almost one-half of known Drosophila ribosomal proteins in the DmSP3. The role of this subset of ribosomal proteins in sperm is unknown. Surprisingly, our expanded sperm proteome also identified 122 seminal fluid proteins (Sfps), proteins originally identified in the accessory glands. We show that a significant fraction of 'sperm-associated Sfps' are recalcitrant to concentrated salt and detergent treatments, suggesting this subclass of Sfps are expressed in testes and may have additional functions in sperm, per se. Overall, our results add to a growing landscape of both sperm and seminal fluid protein biology and in particular provides quantitative evidence at the protein level for prior findings supporting the meiotic sex-chromosome inactivation model for male-specific gene and X chromosome evolution.
PXD035778	35986008	In situ structure and dynamics of an alphacoronavirus spike protein by cryo-ET and cryo-EM. 	In situ structure and dynamics of an alphacoronavirus spike protein by cryo-ET and cryo-EM	PEDV, alphacoronavirus, spike protein	Porcine epidemic diarrhea (PED) is a highly contagious swine disease caused by porcine epidemic diarrhea virus (PEDV). PED causes enteric disorders with an exceptionally high fatality in neonates, bringing substantial economic losses in the pork industry. The trimeric spike (S) glycoprotein of PEDV is responsible for virus-host recognition, membrane fusion, and is the main target for vaccine development and antigenic analysis. The atomic structures of the recombinant PEDV S proteins of two different strains have been reported, but they reveal distinct N-terminal domain 0 (D0) architectures that may correspond to different functional states. The existence of the D0 is a unique feature of alphacoronavirus. Here we combined cryo-electron tomography (cryo-ET) and cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) to demonstrate in situ the asynchronous S protein D0 motions on intact viral particles of a highly virulent PEDV Pintung 52 strain. We further determined the cryo-EM structure of the recombinant S protein derived from a porcine cell line, which revealed additional domain motions likely associated with receptor binding. By integrating mass spectrometry and cryo-EM, we delineated the complex compositions and spatial distribution of the PEDV S protein N-glycans, and demonstrated the functional role of a key N-glycan in modulating the D0 conformation.
PXD034794	35986016	Ferritin-mediated iron detoxification promotes hypothermia survival in Caenorhabditis elegans and murine neurons. 	Ferritin-mediated iron detoxification mediates hypothermia survival in Caenorhabditis elegans and murine neurons.	DAF-16, ETS-4, FTH1, FTN-1, Fe2+, FoxO, Hypothermia, PQM-1, ROS, antioxidant, cold, ferritin heavy chain, ferrous iron, ferroxidase, hibernation, iron, neuroprotection	How animals rewire cellular programs to survive cold is a fascinating problem with potential biomedical implications, ranging from emergency medicine to space travel. Studying a hibernation-like response in the free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, we uncovered a regulatory axis that enhances the natural resistance of nematodes to severe cold. This axis involves conserved transcription factors, DAF-16/FoxO and PQM-1, which jointly promote cold survival by upregulating FTN-1, a protein related to mammalian ferritin heavy chain (FTH1). Moreover, we show that inducing expression of FTH1 also promotes cold survival of mammalian neurons, a cell type particularly sensitive to deterioration in hypothermia. Our findings in both animals and cells suggest that FTN-1/FTH1 facilitates cold survival by detoxifying ROS-generating iron species. We finally show that mimicking the effects of FTN-1/FTH1 with drugs protects neurons from cold-induced degeneration, opening a potential avenue to improved treatments of hypothermia.
PXD031426	35986069	Alterations in the kallikrein-kinin system predict death after heart transplant. 	Pre-transplant microvesicle  proteomics	heart, microvesicle, transplant	Heart transplantation remains the definitive treatment for end stage heart failure. Because availability is limited, risk stratification of candidates is crucial for optimizing both organ allocations and transplant outcomes. Here we utilize proteomics prior to transplant to identify new biomarkers that predict post-transplant survival in a multi-institutional cohort. Microvesicles were isolated from serum samples and underwent proteomic analysis using mass spectrometry. Monte Carlo cross-validation (MCCV) was used to predict survival after transplant incorporating select recipient pre-transplant clinical characteristics and serum microvesicle proteomic data. We identified six protein markers with prediction performance above AUROC of 0.6, including Prothrombin (F2), anti-plasmin (SERPINF2), Factor IX, carboxypeptidase 2 (CPB2), HGF activator (HGFAC) and low molecular weight kininogen (LK). No clinical characteristics demonstrated an AUROC > 0.6. Putative biological functions and pathways were assessed using gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA). Differential expression analysis identified enriched pathways prior to transplant that were associated with post-transplant survival including activation of platelets and the coagulation pathway prior to transplant. Specifically, upregulation of coagulation cascade components of the kallikrein-kinin system (KKS) and downregulation of kininogen prior to transplant were associated with survival after transplant. Further prospective studies are warranted to determine if alterations in the KKS contributes to overall post-transplant survival.
PXD030327	35986672	Enhanced Competition at the Nano-Bio Interface Enables Comprehensive Characterization of Protein Corona Dynamics and Deep Coverage of Proteomes. 	Enhanced competition at the nano-bio interface enables ultra-deep coverage of the human plasma proteome	Machine learning, Nano-bio interactions, Nanoparticles, Protein corona, Vroman effect	Introducing engineered nanoparticles (NPs) into a biofluid such as blood plasma leads to the formation of a selective and reproducible protein corona at the particle-protein interface, driven by the relationship between protein-NP affinity and protein abundance. This enables scalable systems that leverage protein-nano interactions to overcome current limitations of deep plasma proteomics in large cohorts. Here the importance of the protein to NP-surface ratio (P/NP) is demonstrated and protein corona formation dynamics are modeled, which determine the competition between proteins for binding. Tuning the P/NP ratio significantly modulates the protein corona composition, enhancing depth and precision of a fully automated NP-based deep proteomic workflow (Proteograph). By increasing the binding competition on engineered NPs, 1.2-1.7x more proteins with 1% false discovery rate are identified on the surface of each NP, and up to 3x more proteins compared to a standard plasma proteomics workflow. Moreover, the data suggest P/NP plays a significant role in determining the in vivo fate of nanomaterials in biomedical applications. Together, the study showcases the importance of P/NP as a key design element for biomaterials and nanomedicine in vivo and as a powerful tuning strategy for accurate, large-scale NP-based deep proteomic studies.
PXD035283	35987460	Ubiquitin E3 ligase FBXO21 regulates cytokine-mediated signaling pathways, but is dispensable for steady-state hematopoiesis. 	Ubiquitin E3 ligase FBXO21 regulates cytokine mediated signaling pathways, but is dispensable for steady-state hematopoiesis	FBOX, Hematopoietic Stem Cell, Ubiquitin E3 Ligase	Hematopoietic cell fate decisions such as self-renewal and differentiation are highly regulated through multiple molecular pathways. One pathway, the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS), controls protein levels by tagging them with polyubiquitin chains and promoting their degradation through the proteasome. Ubiquitin E3 ligases serve as the substrate-recognition component of the UPS. By investigating the FBOX family of E3 ligases, we discovered that Fbxo21 was highly expressed in the hematopoietic stem and progenitor cell (HSPC) population, and exhibited low to no expression in mature myeloid populations. To determine the role of FBXO21 on HSPC maintenance, self-renewal, and differentiation, we generated shRNAs against FBXO21 and a hematopoiesis-specific Fbxo21 conditional knockout (cKO) mouse model. We found that silencing FBXO21 in HSPCs led to a loss in colony formation and an increase in cell differentiation in vitro. Additionally, stressing the HSPC populations in our Fbxo21 cKO mouse with 5-fluorouracil injections resulted in a decrease in survival, despite these populations exhibiting minimal alterations during steady-state hematopoiesis. Although FBXO21 has previously been proposed to regulate cytokine signaling via ASK and p38, our results indicate that depletion of FBXO21 led to altered ERK signaling in vitro. Together, these findings suggest ubiquitin E3 ligase FBXO21 regulates HSPCs through cytokine-mediated pathways.
PXD028034	35987910	Transposon-activated POU5F1B promotes colorectal cancer growth and metastasis. 	Interactome of POU5F1B detected by LC-MSMS in HT29 and LS1034 CRC cells overexpressing POU5F1B-HA	HT29, LS1034, POU5F1B, colorectal cancer, overexpression	The treatment of colorectal cancer (CRC) is an unmet medical need in absence of early diagnosis. Here, upon characterizing cancer-specific transposable element-driven transpochimeric gene transcripts (TcGTs) produced by this tumor in the SYSCOL cohort, we find that expression of the hominid-restricted retrogene POU5F1B through aberrant activation of a primate-specific endogenous retroviral promoter is a strong negative prognostic biomarker. Correlating this observation, we demonstrate that POU5F1B fosters the proliferation and metastatic potential of CRC cells. We further determine that POU5F1B, in spite of its phylogenetic relationship with the POU5F1/OCT4 transcription factor, is a membrane-enriched protein that associates with protein kinases and known targets or interactors as well as with cytoskeleton-related molecules, and induces intracellular signaling events and the release of trans-acting factors involved in cell growth and cell adhesion. As POU5F1B is an apparently non-essential gene only lowly expressed in normal tissues, and as POU5F1B-containing TcGTs are detected in other tumors besides CRC, our data provide interesting leads for the development of cancer therapies.
PXD034811	35987950	Spatiotemporal-resolved protein networks profiling with photoactivation dependent proximity labeling. 	photoactivation-dependent proximity labeling (PDPL) MS	Proximity labeling, protein network, singlet oxygen	Enzymatic-based proximity labeling approaches based on activated esters or phenoxy radicals have been widely used for mapping subcellular proteome and protein interactors in living cells. However, activated esters are poorly reactive which leads to a wide labeling radius and phenoxy radicals generated by peroxide treatment may disturb redox-sensitive pathways. Herein, we report a photoactivation-dependent proximity labeling (PDPL) method designed by genetically attaching photosensitizer protein miniSOG to a protein of interest. Triggered by blue light and tunned by irradiation time, singlet oxygen is generated, thereafter enabling spatiotemporally-resolved aniline probe labeling of histidine residues. We demonstrate its high-fidelity through mapping of organelle-specific proteomes. Side-by-side comparison of PDPL with TurboID reveals more specific and deeper proteomic coverage by PDPL. We further apply PDPL to the disease-related transcriptional coactivator BRD4 and E3 ligase Parkin, and discover previously unknown interactors. Through over-expression screening, two unreported substrates Ssu72 and SNW1 are identified for Parkin, whose degradation processes are mediated by the ubiquitination-proteosome pathway.
PXD035119	35987960	Plant hairy roots for the production of extracellular vesicles with antitumor bioactivity. 	Proteomic analysis of hairy roots extracellular vesicles of salvia dominica	Proteomic analysis LC-MS, salvia dominica, vesicles	Plant extracellular vesicles (EVs) concentrate and deliver different types of bioactive molecules in human cells and are excellent candidates for a next-generation drug delivery system. However, the lack of standard protocols for plant EV production and the natural variations of their biomolecular cargo pose serious limitation to their use as therapeutics. To overcome these issues, we set up a versatile and standardized procedure to purify plant EVs from hairy root (HR) cultures, a versatile biotechnological system, already successfully employed as source of bioactive molecules with pharmaceutical and nutraceutical relevance. Herewith, we report that HR of Salvia dominica represent an excellent platform for the production of plant EVs. In particular, EVs derived from S. dominica HRs are small round-shaped vesicles carrying typical EV-associated proteins such as cytoskeletal components, chaperon proteins and integral membrane proteins including the tetraspanin TET-7. Interestingly, the HR-derived EVs showed selective and strong pro-apoptotic activity in pancreatic and mammary cancer cells. These results reveal that plant hairy roots may be considered a new promising tool in plant biotechnology for the production of extracellular vesicles for human health.
PXD033493	35990326	The plasma proteome is favorably modified by a high protein diet but not by additional resistance training in older adults: A 17-week randomized controlled trial. 	The plasma proteome is favorably modified by a high protein diet but not by additional resistance training in older adults - a 17-week randomized controlled trial	Blood coagulation system, High protein foods, Innate immune system, Lipid transport, Plasma proteomics, healthy aging, life style intervention, strength training	Background: The age-related loss of muscle mass significantly contributes to the development of chronic diseases, loss of mobility and dependency on others, yet could be improved by an optimized lifestyle. Objective: The goal of this randomized controlled trial was to compare the influence of a habitual diet (CON) with either a diet containing the recommended protein intake (RP) or a high protein intake (HP), both with and without strength training, on the plasma proteome in older adults. Methods: One hundred and thirty-six women and men (65-85 years) were randomly assigned to three intervention groups. CON continued their habitual diet; participants of the HP and RP group consumed either high protein or standard foods. After 6 weeks of dietary intervention, HP and RP groups additionally started a strength training intervention twice per week for 8 weeks. Twenty-four hours dietary recalls were performed every 7-10 days. Body composition was assessed and blood taken. Plasma proteomics were assessed with LC-MS. Results: Participants of the HP group doubled their baseline protein intake from 0.80 +/- 0.31 to 1.63 +/- 0.36 g/kg BW/d; RP increased protein intake from 0.89 +/- 0.28 to 1.06 +/- 0.26 g/kg BW/d. The CON group kept the protein intake stable throughout the study. Combined exercise and HP initiated notable changes, resulting in a reduction in bodyfat and increased muscle mass. Proteomics analyses revealed 14 significantly affected proteins by HP diet, regulating innate immune system, lipid transport and blood coagulation, yet the additional strength training did not elicit further changes. Conclusions: Combined HP and resistance exercise in healthy older adults seem to induce favorable changes in the body composition. Changes in the plasma proteome due to the high protein diet point to a beneficial impact for the innate immune system, lipid transport and blood coagulation system, all of which are involved in chronic disease development. Clinical trial registration: The study was registered at ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT04023513).
PXD031129	35992067	Co-expression network analysis of human tau-transgenic mice reveals protein modules associated with tau-induced pathologies. 	Proteomics of human tau-transgenic mice reveals protein modules associated with tau pathologies	Alzheimer's disease / neurodegenerative disease / proteomics / tau / weighted gene co-expression network analysis	Abnormally accumulated tau protein aggregates are one of the hallmarks of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). In order to investigate proteomic alteration driven by tau aggregates, we implemented quantitative proteomics to analyze disease model mice expressing human MAPT (P301S) transgene (hTau-Tg) and quantified more than 9,000 proteins in total. We applied the weighted gene co-expression analysis (WGCNA) algorithm to the datasets and explored protein co-expression modules that were associated with the accumulation of tau aggregates and were preserved in proteomes of AD brains. This led us to identify four modules with functions related to neuroinflammatory responses, mitochondrial energy production processes (including the tricarboxylic acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation), cholesterol biosynthesis, and postsynaptic density. Furthermore, a phosphoproteomics study uncovered phosphorylation sites that were highly correlated with these modules. Our datasets represent resources for understanding the molecular basis of tau-induced neurodegeneration, including AD.
PXD035401	35994080	Quantitative Assessment of Arsenite-Induced Perturbation of Ubiquitinated Proteome. 	A Quantitative Assessment of Arsenite-induced Perturnation of Ubiquitinated Proteome	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, SILAC lableing, arsneite exposure, data dependent acuisition, human cells, immunocapture, ubiquitome	Arsenic contamination in food and groundwater constitutes a public health concern for more than 200 million people worldwide. Individuals chronically exposed to arsenic through drinking and ingestion exhibit a higher risk of developing cancers and cardiovascular diseases. Nevertheless, the underlying mechanisms of arsenic toxicity are not fully understood. Arsenite is known to bind to and deactivate RING finger E3 ubiquitin ligases; thus, we reason that a systematic interrogation about how arsenite exposure modulates global protein ubiquitination may reveal novel molecular targets for arsenic toxicity. By employing liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, in combination with stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) and immunoprecipitation of di-glycine-conjugated lysine-containing tryptic peptides, we assessed the alterations in protein ubiquitination in GM00637 human skin fibroblast cells upon arsenite exposure at the entire proteome level. We observed that arsenite exposure led to altered ubiquitination of many proteins, where the alterations in a large majority of ubiquitination events are negatively correlated with changes in expression of the corresponding proteins, suggesting their modulation by the ubiquitin-proteasomal pathway. Moreover, we observed that arsenite exposure confers diminished ubiquitination of a rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, HMGCR, at Lys(248). We also revealed that TRC8 is the major E3 ubiquitin ligase for HMGCR ubiquitination in HEK293T cells, and the arsenite-induced diminution of HMGCR ubiquitination is abrogated upon genetic depletion of TRC8. In summary, we systematically characterized arsenite-induced perturbations in a ubiquitinated proteome in human cells and found that the arsenite-elicited attenuation of HMGCR ubiquitination in HEK293T cells involves TRC8.
PXD031596	35994434	Proteomic changes in various organs of Haemaphysalis longicornis under long-term starvation. 	Proteomic analysis of key organs reveal the significant roles of antioxidant enzymes and oxidative phosphorylation proteins in starved ticks Haemaphysalis longicornis Neumann	adaptation, hunger stress, oxidative stress, quantitative proteomics	Haemaphysalis longicornis (Neumann), a tick of public health and veterinary importance, spend the major part of their life cycle off-host, especially the adult host-seeking period. Thus, they have to contend with prolonged starvation. Here, we investigated the underlying molecular mechanism of tick starvation endurance in the salivary glands, midguts, ovaries, and Malpighian tubules of starved H. longicornis ticks using the data-independent acquisition quantitative proteomic approach to study the proteome changes. Essential synthases such as glutamate synthase, citrate synthase, and ATP synthase were up-regulated probably due to increased proteolysis and amino acid catabolism during starvation. The up-regulation of succinate dehydrogenase, ATP synthase, cytochrome c oxidase, and ADP/ATP translocase closely fits with an increased oxidative phosphorylation function during starvation. The differential expression of superoxide dismutase, glutathione reductase, glutathione S-transferase, thioredoxin, and peroxiredoxin indicated fasting-induced oxidative stress. The up-regulation of heat shock proteins could imply the activation of a protective mechanism that checks excessive protein breakdown during starvation stress. The results of this study could provide useful information about the vulnerabilities of ticks that could aid in tick control efforts.
PXD030164	35994477	A toolbox for class I HDACs reveals isoform specific roles in gene regulation and protein acetylation. 	Regulation of cellular proteome and acetylome by catalytic and non-catalytic functions of class I histone deacetylases	Chromatin, HDAC inhibitor, acetylome, histone deacetylase	The class I histone deacetylases are essential regulators of cell fate decisions in health and disease. While pan- and class-specific HDAC inhibitors are available, these drugs do not allow a comprehensive understanding of individual HDAC function, or the therapeutic potential of isoform-specific targeting. To systematically compare the impact of individual catalytic functions of HDAC1, HDAC2 and HDAC3, we generated human HAP1 cell lines expressing catalytically inactive HDAC enzymes. Using this genetic toolbox we compare the effect of individual HDAC inhibition with the effects of class I specific inhibitors on cell viability, protein acetylation and gene expression. Individual inactivation of HDAC1 or HDAC2 has only mild effects on cell viability, while HDAC3 inactivation or loss results in DNA damage and apoptosis. Inactivation of HDAC1/HDAC2 led to increased acetylation of components of the COREST co-repressor complex, reduced deacetylase activity associated with this complex and derepression of neuronal genes. HDAC3 controls the acetylation of nuclear hormone receptor associated proteins and the expression of nuclear hormone receptor regulated genes. Acetylation of specific histone acetyltransferases and HDACs is sensitive to inactivation of HDAC1/HDAC2. Over a wide range of assays, we determined that in particular HDAC1 or HDAC2 catalytic inactivation mimics class I specific HDAC inhibitors. Importantly, we further demonstrate that catalytic inactivation of HDAC1 or HDAC2 sensitizes cells to specific cancer drugs. In summary, our systematic study revealed isoform-specific roles of HDAC1/2/3 catalytic functions. We suggest that targeted genetic inactivation of particular isoforms effectively mimics pharmacological HDAC inhibition allowing the identification of relevant HDACs as targets for therapeutic intervention.
PXD033710	35995421	Proteogenomics and Differential Ion Mobility Enable the Exploration of the Mutational Landscape in Colon Cancer Cells. 	Proteogenomics and differential ion mobility enables the exploration of the mutational landscape in colon cancer cells	High field asymmetric waveform ion mobility (FAIMS), colon cancer, gas-phase fractionation, protein mutation, proteogenomics, single amino acid polymorphism, single amino acid variant	The sensitivity and depth of proteomic analyses are limited by isobaric ions and interferences that preclude the identification of low abundance peptides. Extensive sample fractionation is often required to extend proteome coverage when sample amount is not a limitation. Ion mobility devices provide a viable alternate approach to resolve confounding ions and improve peak capacity and mass spectrometry (MS) sensitivity. Here, we report the integration of differential ion mobility with segmented ion fractionation (SIFT) to enhance the comprehensiveness of proteomic analyses. The combination of differential ion mobility and SIFT, where narrow windows of ~m/z 100 are acquired in turn, is found particularly advantageous in the analysis of protein digests and typically provided more than 60% gain in identification compared to conventional single-shot LC-MS/MS. The application of this approach is further demonstrated for the analysis of tryptic digests from different colorectal cancer cell lines where the enhanced sensitivity enabled the identification of single amino acid variants that were correlated with the corresponding transcriptomic data sets.
PXD031731	35995956	A novel differentiated HuH-7 cell model to examine bile acid metabolism, transport and cholestatic hepatotoxicity. 	A Novel Differentiated HuH-7 Cell Model to Examine Bile Acid Metabolism, Transport and Cholestatic Hepatotoxicity	HuH-7 Cells, Quantitative Targeted Proteomics, Sciex	Hepatic cell lines serve as economical and reproducible alternatives for primary human hepatocytes. However, the utility of hepatic cell lines to examine bile acid homeostasis and cholestatic toxicity is limited due to abnormal expression and function of bile acid-metabolizing enzymes, transporters, and the absence of canalicular formation. We discovered that culturing HuH-7 human hepatoma cells with dexamethasone (DEX) and 0.5% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) for two weeks, with Matrigel overlay after one week, resulted in a shorter and improved differentiation process. These culture conditions increased the expression and function of the major bile acid uptake and efflux transporters, sodium taurocholate co-transporting polypeptide (NTCP) and the bile salt export pump (BSEP), respectively, in two-week cultures of HuH-7 cells. This in vitro model was further characterized for expression and function of bile acid-metabolizing enzymes, transporters, and cellular bile acids. Differentiated HuH-7 cells displayed a marked shift in bile acid composition and induction of cytochrome P450 (CYP) 7A1, CYP8B1, CYP3A4, and bile acid-CoA: amino acid N-acyltransferase (BAAT) mRNAs compared to control. Inhibition of taurocholate uptake and excretion after a 24-h treatment with prototypical cholestatic drugs suggests that differentiated HuH-7 cells are a suitable model to examine cholestatic hepatotoxicity.
PXD033653	35995995	GLP-1-mediated delivery of tesaglitazar improves obesity and glucose metabolism in male mice. 	Proteomic changes in the hypothalamus after treatment with GLP-1RA, Tesaglitazar, or GLP-1RA/Tesaglitazar (GLP-1RA mediated Tesaglitazar delivery)	GLP-1, GLP-1RA, Hypothalamus, Tesaglitazar, targeted delivery	Dual agonists activating the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors alpha and gamma (PPARa/gamma) have beneficial effects on glucose and lipid metabolism in patients with type 2 diabetes, but their development was discontinued due to potential adverse effects. Here we report the design and preclinical evaluation of a molecule that covalently links the PPARa/gamma dual-agonist tesaglitazar to a GLP-1 receptor agonist (GLP-1RA) to allow for GLP-1R-dependent cellular delivery of tesaglitazar. GLP-1RA/tesaglitazar does not differ from the pharmacokinetically matched GLP-1RA in GLP-1R signalling, but shows GLP-1R-dependent PPARgamma-retinoic acid receptor heterodimerization and enhanced improvements of body weight, food intake and glucose metabolism relative to the GLP-1RA or tesaglitazar alone in obese male mice. The conjugate fails to affect body weight and glucose metabolism in GLP-1R knockout mice and shows preserved effects in obese mice at subthreshold doses for the GLP-1RA and tesaglitazar. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry-based proteomics identified PPAR regulated proteins in the hypothalamus that are acutely upregulated by GLP-1RA/tesaglitazar. Our data show that GLP-1RA/tesaglitazar improves glucose control with superior efficacy to the GLP-1RA or tesaglitazar alone and suggest that this conjugate might hold therapeutic value to acutely treat hyperglycaemia and insulin resistance.
PXD034782	35995997	Long non-coding RNA SNHG6 couples cholesterol sensing with mTORC1 activation in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	LC-MS/MS Proteomics analysis of LncRNA SNHG6 in HEPG2 cell line	LncRNA, SNHG6	Cholesterol contributes to the structural basis of biological membranes and functions as a signaling molecule, whose dysregulation has been associated with various human diseases. Here, we report that the long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) SNHG6 increases progression from non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) by modulating cholesterol-induced mTORC1 activation. Mechanistically, cholesterol binds ER-anchored FAF2 protein to promote the formation of a SNHG6-FAF2-mTOR complex. As a putative cholesterol effector, SNHG6 enhances cholesterol-dependent mTORC1 lysosomal recruitment and activation via enhancing FAF2-mTOR interaction at ER-lysosome contacts, thereby coordinating mTORC1 kinase cascade activation with cellular cholesterol biosynthesis in a self-amplified cycle to accelerate cholesterol-driven NAFLD-HCC development. Notably, loss of SNHG6 inhibits mTORC1 signaling and impairs growth of patient-derived xenograft liver cancer tumors, identifyifng SNHG6 as a potential target for liver cancer treatment. Together, our findings illustrate the crucial role of organelle-associated lncRNA in organelle communication, nutrient sensing, and kinase cascades.
PXD022378	35996956	Comparative chromatin accessibility upon BDNF stimulation delineates neuronal regulatory elements. 	Subcellular proteomics of murine ESC-derived neurons	BDNF, KCL, TMT, Thermo Q Exactive plus, neurons, stimulation, subcellular fractionation	Neuronal stimulation induced by the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) triggers gene expression, which is crucial for neuronal survival, differentiation, synaptic plasticity, memory formation, and neurocognitive health. However, its role in chromatin regulation is unclear. Here, using temporal profiling of chromatin accessibility and transcription in mouse primary cortical neurons upon either BDNF stimulation or depolarization (KCl), we identify features that define BDNF-specific chromatin-to-gene expression programs. Enhancer activation is an early event in the regulatory control of BDNF-treated neurons, where the bZIP motif-binding Fos protein pioneered chromatin opening and cooperated with co-regulatory transcription factors (Homeobox, EGRs, and CTCF) to induce transcription. Deleting cis-regulatory sequences affect BDNF-mediated Arc expression, a regulator of synaptic plasticity. BDNF-induced accessible regions are linked to preferential exon usage by neurodevelopmental disorder-related genes and the heritability of neuronal complex traits, which were validated in human iPSC-derived neurons. Thus, we provide a comprehensive view of BDNF-mediated genome regulatory features using comparative genomic approaches to dissect mammalian neuronal stimulation.
PXD033856	35997440	Disturbance of Key Cellular Subproteomes upon Propofol Treatment Is Associated with Increased Permeability of the Blood-Brain Barrier. 	Disturbance of key cellular subproteomes upon propofol treatment is associated with increased permeability of the blood-brain barrier	DNA damage response, anesthetics, blood-brain barrier, drug effect, human brain microvascular endothelial cells, metabolic stress, propofol, quantitative proteomics, reactive oxygen species (ROS)	BACKGROUND: Propofol is a short-acting anesthetic, which is often used for induction and maintenance of general anesthesia, sedation for mechanically ventilated adults and procedural sedation. Several side effects of propofol are known and a substantial number of patients suffer from post-operative delirium after propofol application. In this study, we analyzed the effect of propofol on the function and protein expression profile on a proteome-wide scale. METHODS: We cultured human brain microvascular endothelial cells in absence and presence of propofol and analyzed the permeability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) by fluorescein passage and protein abundance on a proteome-wide scale by mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Propofol interfered with the function of the blood-brain barrier. This was not due to decreased adhesion of propofol-treated human brain microvascular endothelial cells. The proteomic analysis revealed that some key pathways in these cells were disturbed, such as oxygen metabolism, DNA damage recognition and response to stress. CONCLUSIONS: Propofol has strong effects on protein expression which could explain several side effects of propofol.
PXD030740	35998057	ADAM17-mediated EGFR ligand shedding directs macrophage-promoted cancer cell invasion. 	Epidermal growth factor shedding directs macrophage education in cancer	4T1, ADAM17, Conditioned medium, HB-EGF, PRM, TMT	Macrophages in the tumor microenvironment have a substantial impact on tumor progression. Depending on the signaling environment in the tumor, macrophages can either support or constrain tumor progression. It is therefore of therapeutic interest to identify the tumor-derived factors that control macrophage education. With this aim, we correlated the expression of A Disintegrin and Metalloproteinase (ADAM) proteases, which are key mediators of cell-cell signaling, to the expression of protumorigenic macrophage markers in human cancer cohorts. We identified ADAM17, a sheddase upregulated in many cancer types, as a protein of interest. Depletion of ADAM17 in cancer cell lines reduced the expression of several protumorigenic markers in neighboring macrophages in vitro as well as in mouse models. Moreover, ADAM17-/- educated macrophages demonstrated a reduced ability to induce cancer cell invasion. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics and ELISA, we identified heparin-binding EGF (HB-EGF) and amphiregulin, shed by ADAM17 in the cancer cells, as the implicated molecular mediators of macrophage education. Additionally, RNA-Seq and ELISA experiments revealed that ADAM17-dependent HB-EGF ligand release induced the expression and secretion of CXCL chemokines in macrophages, which in turn stimulated cancer cell invasion. In conclusion, we provide evidence that ADAM17 mediates a paracrine EGFR-ligand-chemokine feedback loop, whereby cancer cells hijack macrophages to promote tumor progression.
PXD027087	35999225	ERalpha-LBD, an isoform of estrogen receptor alpha, promotes breast cancer proliferation and endocrine resistance. 	Analysis of fulvestrant-treated breast cancer cells by LC-MS/MS	Breast Cancer, ERalpha, estrogen receptor	Estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) drives mammary gland development and breast cancer (BC) growth through an evolutionarily conserved linkage of DNA binding and hormone activation functions. Therapeutic targeting of the hormone binding pocket is a widely utilized and successful strategy for breast cancer prevention and treatment. However, resistance to this endocrine therapy is frequently encountered and may occur through bypass or reactivation of ER-regulated transcriptional programs. We now identify the induction of an ERalpha isoform, ERalpha-LBD, that is encoded by an alternative ESR1 transcript and lacks the activation function and DNA binding domains. Despite lacking the transcriptional activity, ERalpha-LBD is found to promote breast cancer growth and resistance to the ERalpha antagonist fulvestrant. ERalpha-LBD is predominantly localized to the cytoplasm and mitochondria of BC cells and leads to enhanced glycolysis, respiration and stem-like features. Intriguingly, ERalpha-LBD expression and function does not appear to be restricted to cancers that express full length ERalpha but also promotes growth of triple-negative breast cancers and ERalpha-LBD transcript (ESR1-LBD) is also present in BC samples from both ERalpha(+) and ERalpha(-) human tumors. These findings point to ERalpha-LBD as a potential mediator of breast cancer progression and therapy resistance.
PXD034081	35999260	Translatome proteomics identifies autophagy as a resistance mechanism to on-target FLT3 inhibitors in acute myeloid leukemia. 	Translatome proteomics of primary human FLT3-ITD+ AML cells treated with FLT3 inhibitors quizartinib, crenolanib, gilteritinib	AML, FLT3, crenolanib, gilteritinib, quizartinib, translatome	Internal tandem duplications (ITD) in the receptor tyrosine kinase FLT3 occur in 25 % of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients, drive leukemia progression and confer a poor prognosis. Primary resistance to FLT3 kinase inhibitors (FLT3i) quizartinib, crenolanib and gilteritinib is a frequent clinical challenge and occurs in the absence of identifiable genetic causes. This suggests that adaptive cellular mechanisms mediate primary resistance to on-target FLT3i therapy. Here, we systematically investigated acute cellular responses to on-target therapy with multiple FLT3i in FLT3-ITD + AML using recently developed functional translatome proteomics (measuring changes in the nascent proteome) with phosphoproteomics. This pinpointed AKT-mTORC1-ULK1-dependent autophagy as a dominant resistance mechanism to on-target FLT3i therapy. FLT3i induced autophagy in a concentration- and time-dependent manner specifically in FLT3-ITD + cells in vitro and in primary human AML cells ex vivo. Pharmacological or genetic inhibition of autophagy increased the sensitivity to FLT3-targeted therapy in cell lines, patient-derived xenografts and primary AML cells ex vivo. In mice xenografted with FLT3-ITD + AML cells, co-treatment with oral FLT3 and autophagy inhibitors synergistically impaired leukemia progression and extended overall survival. Our findings identify a molecular mechanism responsible for primary FLT3i treatment resistance and demonstrate the pre-clinical efficacy of a rational combination treatment strategy targeting both FLT3 and autophagy induction.
PXD030538	35	The effect of o-salicylate upon pentose phosphate pathway activity in normal and G6PD-deficient red cells. 	Pytheas E. coli 16S rRNA sample analysis	16S, Pytheas, RNA, isotope labeling, ribosome	The effect of the major metabolite of aspirin, namely salicylic acid, upon the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP) of normal and G6PD-deficient red cells has been studied. Salicylic acid was shown to inhibit this pathway in proportion to the amount present. At any concentration of this substance there was greater inhibition of the PPP in G6PD-deficient than in normal red cells.
PXD032017	36000978	An amphipathic helix in Brl1 is required for nuclear pore complex biogenesis in S. cerevisiae. 	An Amphipathic Helix in Brl1 is Required for Nuclear Pore Complex Biogenesis in S. cerevisiae - KARMA analysis of Brl1 (DIA) 	DIA, KARMA	The nuclear pore complex (NPC) is the central portal for macromolecular exchange between the nucleus and cytoplasm. In all eukaryotes, NPCs assemble into an intact nuclear envelope (NE) during interphase, but the process of NPC biogenesis remains poorly characterized. Furthermore, little is known about how NPC assembly leads to the fusion of the outer and inner NE, and no factors have been identified that could trigger this event. Here, we characterize the transmembrane protein Brl1 as an NPC assembly factor required for NE fusion in budding yeast. Brl1 preferentially associates with NPC assembly intermediates and its depletion halts NPC biogenesis, leading to NE herniations that contain inner and outer ring nucleoporins but lack the cytoplasmic export platform. Furthermore, we identify an essential amphipathic helix in the luminal domain of Brl1 that mediates interactions with lipid bilayers. Mutations in this amphipathic helix lead to NPC assembly defects, and cryo-electron tomography analyses reveal multilayered herniations of the inner nuclear membrane with NPC-like structures at the neck, indicating a failure in NE fusion. Taken together, our results identify a role for Brl1 in NPC assembly and suggest a function of its amphipathic helix in mediating the fusion of the inner and outer nuclear membranes.
PXD028503	36001962	A small RNA-guided PRC2 complex eliminates DNA as an extreme form of transposon silencing. 	Identification of the Polycomb repressive complex 2 and its interacting proteins in Paramecium tetraurelia	Immunoprecipitation, Paramecium tetraurelia, Polycomb repressive complex 2	In animal germlines, transposons are silenced at the transcriptional or post-transcriptional level to prevent deleterious expression. Ciliates employ a more direct approach by physically eliminating transposons from their soma, utilizing piRNAs to recognize transposons and imprecisely excise them. Ancient, mutated transposons often do not require piRNAs and are precisely eliminated. Here, we characterize the Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) in Paramecium and demonstrate its involvement in the removal of transposons and transposon-derived DNA. Our results reveal a striking difference between the elimination of new and ancient transposons at the chromatin level and show that the complex may be guided by Piwi-bound small RNAs (sRNAs). We propose that imprecise elimination in ciliates originates from an ancient transposon silencing mechanism, much like in plants and metazoans, through sRNAs, repressive methylation marks, and heterochromatin formation. However, it is taken a step further by eliminating DNA as an extreme form of transposon silencing.
PXD028746	36002022	Optimized human intestinal organoid model reveals interleukin-22-dependency of paneth cell formation. 	Organoid differentiation with IL22	IL22, Organoid, STAT3, Wnt signaling, high-pH proteome, mTOR	Opposing roles have been proposed for IL-22 in intestinal pathophysiology. We have optimized human small intestinal organoid (hSIO) culturing, constitutively generating all differentiated cell types while maintaining an active stem cell compartment. IL-22 does not promote the expansion of stem cells but rather slows the growth of hSIOs. In hSIOs, IL-22 is required for formation of Paneth cells, the prime producers of intestinal antimicrobial peptides (AMPs). Introduction of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)-associated loss-of-function mutations in the IL-22 co-receptor gene IL10RB resulted in abolishment of Paneth cells in hSIOs. Moreover, IL-22 induced expression of host defense genes (such as REG1A, REG1B, and DMBT1) in enterocytes, goblet cells, Paneth cells, Tuft cells, and even stem cells. Thus, IL-22 does not directly control the regenerative capacity of crypt stem cells but rather boosts Paneth cell numbers, as well as the expression of AMPs in all cell types.
PXD022384	36002575	Phosphorylation of muramyl peptides by NAGK is required for NOD2 activation. 	MDP phosphorylation by NAGK is essential for NOD2 activation	Muramyl dipeptide, NAGK, NOD2, bacterial sensing, inflammation, sugar kinase	Bacterial cell wall components provide various unique molecular structures that are detected by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) of the innate immune system as non-self. Most bacterial species form a cell wall that consists of peptidoglycan (PGN), a polymeric structure comprising alternating amino sugars that form strands cross-linked by short peptides. Muramyl dipeptide (MDP) has been well documented as a minimal immunogenic component of peptidoglycan(1-3). MDP is sensed by the cytosolic nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-containing protein 2(4) (NOD2). Upon engagement, it triggers pro-inflammatory gene expression, and this functionality is of critical importance in maintaining a healthy intestinal barrier function(5). Here, using a forward genetic screen to identify factors required for MDP detection, we identified N-acetylglucosamine kinase (NAGK) as being essential for the immunostimulatory activity of MDP. NAGK is broadly expressed in immune cells and has previously been described to contribute to the hexosamine biosynthetic salvage pathway(6). Mechanistically, NAGK functions upstream of NOD2 by directly phosphorylating the N-acetylmuramic acid moiety of MDP at the hydroxyl group of its C6 position, yielding 6-O-phospho-MDP. NAGK-phosphorylated MDP-but not unmodified MDP-constitutes an agonist for NOD2. Macrophages from mice deficient in NAGK are completely deficient in MDP sensing. These results reveal a link between amino sugar metabolism and innate immunity to bacterial cell walls.
PXD032921	36003392	Post-translational changes in Phialophora verrucosa via lysine lactylation during prolonged presence in a patient with a CARD9-related immune disorder. 	Post-translational changes in Phialophora verrucosa via lysine lactylation during prolonged presence in a patient with a CARD9-related immune disorder	Phialophora Verrucosa	CARD9-related inherited immune disorders are a major risk factor for chronic disseminated fungal infection. In addition to pathogens of Candida and dermatophytes, the environmental opportunists of the black yeast-like fungi are relatively frequent in this patient cohort. Particularly the genus Phialophora is overrepresented. We investigated two isolates of a strain of P. verrucosa residing in a CARD9 patient, sampled with a period of ten years apart. Genomes, melanization and antifungal susceptibility of progenitor and derived strains were compared, and potential adaptation to the host habitat was investigated with proteomic techniques using post-translational modification as a proxy. Global lactylation analysis was performed using high accuracy nano-LC-MS/MS in combination with enrichment of lactylated peptides from digested cell lysates, and subsequent peptide identification. The genome of the derived isolate had accumulated 6945 SNPs, of which 31 were detected in CDS. A large number of identified proteins were significantly enriched, e.g. in melanin biosynthesis. A total of 636 lactylation sites on 420 lactylated proteins were identified, which contained in 26 types of modification motifs. Lysine lactylation (Kla) was found in 23 constituent proteins of the ribosome, indicating an impact of Kla in protein synthesis. Twelve lactylated proteins participated in pathogenicity. A protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis suggested that protein lactylations are widely distributed influencing various biological processes. Our findings reveal widespread roles for lysine lactylation in regulating metabolism and melanin biosynthesis in black fungi. Several large rearrangements and inversions were observed in the genome, but genomic changes could not be linked to adaptation or to known clinically relevant properties of progenitor to derived isolate; in vitro antifungal susceptibility had largely remained unaltered.
PXD032972	36004048	Differential RNA aptamer affinity profiling on plasma as a potential diagnostic tool for bladder cancer. 	Differential RNA aptamer affinity profiling on plasma as a potential diagnostic tool for bladder cancer	Aptamer, Biofluids, Bladder Cancer, Pulldown	The molecular composition of blood is a signature of human health, reflected in the thousands of blood biomarkers known for human diseases. However, establishing robust disease markers is challenging due to the diversity of individual samples. New sequencing methods have simplified biomarker discovery for circulating DNA and RNA while protein profiling is still laborious and costly. To harness the power of high-throughput sequencing to profile the protein content of a biological sample, we developed a method termed APTASHAPE that uses oligonucleotide aptamers to recognize proteins in complex biofluids. We selected a large pool of 2'Fluoro protected RNA sequences to recognize proteins in human plasma and identified a set of 33 cancer-specific aptamers. Differential enrichment of these aptamers after selection against 1 mul of plasma from individual patients allowed us to differentiate between healthy controls and bladder cancer-diagnosed patients (91% accuracy) and between early non-invasive tumors and late stage tumors (83% accuracy). Affinity purification and mass spectrometry of proteins bound to the predictive aptamers showed the main target proteins to be C4b-binding protein, Complement C3, Fibrinogen, Complement factor H and IgG. The APTASHAPE method thus provides a general, automated and highly sensitive platform for discovering potential new disease biomarkers.
PXD035292	36005596	Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis and Support Vector Machine Learning in the Proteomic Profiling of Cerebrospinal Fluid from Extraventricular Drainage in Child Medulloblastoma. 	Artificial Intelligence in proteomic profiling of Cerebrospinal fluid from extraventricular drainage in child Medulloblastoma	Medulloblastoma, central nervous system, cerebrospinal fluid	Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most common pediatric malignant central nervous system tumor. Overall survival in MB depends on treatment tuning. There is aneed for biomarkers of residual disease and recurrence. We analyzed the proteome of waste cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from extraventricular drainage (EVD) from six children bearing various subtypes of MB and six controls needing EVD insertion for unrelated causes. Samples included total CSF, microvesicles, exosomes, and proteins captured by combinatorial peptide ligand library (CPLL). Liquid chromatography-coupled tandem mass spectrometry proteomics identified 3560 proteins in CSF from control and MB patients, 2412 (67.7%) of which were overlapping, and 346 (9.7%) and 805 (22.6%) were exclusive. Multidimensional scaling analysis discriminated samples. The weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) identified those modules functionally associated with the samples. A ranked core of 192 proteins allowed distinguishing between control and MB samples. Machine learning highlighted long-chain fatty acid transport protein 4 (SLC27A4) and laminin B-type (LMNB1) as proteins that maximized the discrimination between control and MB samples. Machine learning WGCNA and support vector machine learning were able to distinguish between MB versus non-tumor/hemorrhagic controls. The two potential protein biomarkers for the discrimination between control and MB may guide therapy and predict recurrences, improving the MB patients' quality of life.
PXD034497	36006183	Equatorial Spitting Cobra (Naja sumatrana) from Malaysia (Negeri Sembilan and Penang), Southern Thailand, and Sumatra: Comparative Venom Proteomics, Immunoreactivity and Cross-Neutralization by Antivenom. 	Proteome data of snake venom_file 13	LCMS/MS, Snake venom, Venom proteome	The Equatorial Spitting Cobra (Naja sumatrana) is a medically important venomous snake species in Southeast Asia. Its wide geographical distribution implies potential intra-specific venom variation, while there is no species-specific antivenom available to treat its envenoming. Applying a protein-decomplexing proteomic approach, the study showed that three-finger toxins (3FTX), followed by phospholipases A2 (PLA2), were the major proteins well-conserved across N. sumatrana venoms of different locales. Variations were noted in the subtypes and relative abundances of venom proteins. Of note, alpha-neurotoxins (belonging to 3FTX) are the least in the Penang specimen (Ns-PG, 5.41% of total venom proteins), compared with geographical specimens from Negeri Sembilan (Ns-NS, 14.84%), southern Thailand (Ns-TH, 16.05%) and Sumatra (Ns-SU, 10.81%). The alpha-neurotoxin abundance, in general, correlates with the venom's lethal potency. The Thai Naja kaouthia Monovalent Antivenom (NkMAV) was found to be immunoreactive toward the N. sumatrana venoms and is capable of cross-neutralizing N. sumatrana venom lethality to varying degrees (potency = 0.49-0.92 mg/mL, interpreted as the amount of venom completely neutralized per milliliter of antivenom). The potency was lowest against NS-SU venom, implying variable antigenicity of its lethal alpha-neurotoxins. Together, the findings suggest the para-specific and geographical utility of NkMAV as treatment for N. sumatrana envenoming in Southeast Asia.
PXD028595	36006241	Composition and organization of kinetochores show plasticity in apicomplexan chromosome segregation. 	Discovery of kinetochore and spindle assembly checkpoint proteins in apicomplexan parasites	apicomplexan parasite, immunoprecipitation, spindle assembly	Kinetochores are multiprotein assemblies directing mitotic spindle attachment and chromosome segregation. In apicomplexan parasites, most known kinetochore components and associated regulators are apparently missing, suggesting a minimal structure with limited control over chromosome segregation. In this study, we use interactomics combined with deep homology searches to identify 13 previously unknown components of kinetochores in Apicomplexa. Apicomplexan kinetochores are highly divergent in sequence and composition from animal and fungal models. The nanoscale organization includes at least four discrete compartments, each displaying different biochemical interactions, subkinetochore localizations and evolutionary rates across the phylum. We reveal alignment of kinetochores at the metaphase plate in both Plasmodium berghei and Toxoplasma gondii, suggestive of a conserved "hold signal" that prevents precocious entry into anaphase. Finally, we show unexpected plasticity in kinetochore composition and segregation between apicomplexan lifecycle stages, suggestive of diverse requirements to maintain fidelity of chromosome segregation across parasite modes of division.
PXD030212	36006697	CDK8 and CDK19 regulate intestinal differentiation and homeostasis via the chromatin remodeling complex SWI/SNF. 	Mediator Kinase Complexes Regulates ATOH1-Dependent  Intestinal Differentiation	CDK19, Phosphoproetomics. CDK8	Initiation and maintenance of transcriptional states are critical for controlling normal tissue homeostasis and differentiation. The cyclin dependent kinases CDK8 and CDK19 (Mediator kinases) are regulatory components of Mediator, a highly conserved complex that orchestrates enhancer-mediated transcriptional output. While Mediator kinases have been implicated in the transcription of genes necessary for development and growth, its function in mammals has not been well defined. Using genetically defined models and pharmacological inhibitors, we showed that CDK8 and CDK19 function in a redundant manner to regulate intestinal lineage specification in humans and mice. The Mediator kinase module bound and phosphorylated key components of the chromatin remodeling complex switch/sucrose non-fermentable (SWI/SNF) in intestinal epithelial cells. Concomitantly, SWI/SNF and MED12-Mediator colocalized at distinct lineage-specifying enhancers in a CDK8/19-dependent manner. Thus, these studies reveal a transcriptional mechanism of intestinal cell specification, coordinated by the interaction between the chromatin remodeling complex SWI/SNF and Mediator kinase.
PXD030406	36006919	In Search of a Universal Method: A Comparative Survey of Bottom-Up Proteomics Sample Preparation Methods. 	Comparative analysis of MS sample preparation methods	HeLa, sample preparation	Robust, efficient, and reproducible protein extraction and sample processing is a key step for bottom-up proteomics analyses. While many sample preparation protocols for mass spectrometry have been described, selecting an appropriate method remains challenging since some protein classes may require specialized solubilization, precipitation, and digestion procedures. Here, we present a comprehensive comparison of the 16 most widely used sample preparation methods, covering in-solution digests, device-based methods, and commercially available kits. We find a remarkably good performance of the majority of the protocols with high reproducibility, little method dependency, and low levels of artifact formation. However, we revealed method-dependent differences in the recovery of specific protein features, which we summarized in a descriptive guide matrix. Our work thereby provides a solid basis for the selection of MS sample preparation strategies for a given proteomics project.
PXD034055	36007011	Discovery of XL01126: A Potent, Fast, Cooperative, Selective, Orally Bioavailable, and Blood-Brain Barrier Penetrant PROTAC Degrader of Leucine-Rich Repeat Kinase 2. 	Discovery of XL01126: A Potent, Fast, Cooperative, Selective, Oral bioavailable and Blood Brain Barrier Penetrant PROTAC Degrader of Leucine Rich Repeat Kinase 2 (LRRK2)	LRRK2, PROTAC, Parkinsosns disease, TMT	Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) is one of the most promising targets for Parkinson's disease. LRRK2-targeting strategies have primarily focused on type 1 kinase inhibitors, which, however, have limitations as the inhibited protein can interfere with natural mechanisms, which could lead to undesirable side effects. Herein, we report the development of LRRK2 proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs), culminating in the discovery of degrader XL01126, as an alternative LRRK2-targeting strategy. Initial designs and screens of PROTACs based on ligands for E3 ligases von Hippel-Lindau (VHL), Cereblon (CRBN), and cellular inhibitor of apoptosis (cIAP) identified the best degraders containing thioether-conjugated VHL ligand VH101. A second round of medicinal chemistry exploration led to qualifying XL01126 as a fast and potent degrader of LRRK2 in multiple cell lines, with DC50 values within 15-72 nM, Dmax values ranging from 82 to 90%, and degradation half-lives spanning from 0.6 to 2.4 h. XL01126 exhibits high cell permeability and forms a positively cooperative ternary complex with VHL and LRRK2 (alpha = 5.7), which compensates for a substantial loss of binary binding affinities to VHL and LRRK2, underscoring its strong degradation performance in cells. Remarkably, XL01126 is orally bioavailable (F = 15%) and can penetrate the blood-brain barrier after either oral or parenteral dosing in mice. Taken together, these experiments qualify XL01126 as a suitable degrader probe to study the noncatalytic and scaffolding functions of LRRK2 in vitro and in vivo and offer an attractive starting point for future drug development.
PXD030540	36008984	Emergent Role of IFITM1/3 towards Splicing Factor (SRSF1) and Antigen-Presenting Molecule (HLA-B) in Cervical Cancer. 	SRSF1 as a novel interacting partner for IFITM1/3 unravels the emergent role of IFITM1/3 mediating protein expression	CRISPR/Cas, interferon, interferon induced transmembrane 1 and 3, isoform of serine and arginine rich splicing factor 1, mRNA, ribosome	The IFITM restriction factors play a role in cancer cell progression through undefined mechanisms. We investigate new protein-protein interactions for IFITM1/3 in the context of cancer that would shed some light on how IFITM1/3 attenuate the expression of targeted proteins such as HLA-B. SBP-tagged IFITM1 protein was used to identify an association of IFITM1 protein with the SRSF1 splicing factor and transporter of mRNA to the ribosome. Using in situ proximity ligation assays, we confirmed a predominant cytosolic protein-protein association for SRSF1 and IFITM1/3. Accordingly, IFITM1/3 interacted with HLA-B mRNA in response to IFNgamma stimulation using RNA-protein proximity ligation assays. In addition, RT-qPCR assays in IFITM1/IFITM3 null cells and wt-SiHa cells indicated that HLA-B gene expression at the mRNA level does not account for lowered HLA-B protein synthesis in response to IFNgamma. Complementary, shotgun RNA sequencing did not show major transcript differences between IFITM1/IFITM3 null cells and wt-SiHa cells. Furthermore, ribosome profiling using sucrose gradient sedimentation identified a reduction in 80S ribosomal fraction an IFITM1/IFITM3 null cells compared to wild type. It was partially reverted by IFITM1/3 complementation. Our data link IFITM1/3 proteins to HLA-B mRNA and SRSF1 and, all together, our results begin to elucidate how IFITM1/3 catalyze the synthesis of target proteins. IFITMs are widely studied for their role in inhibiting viruses, and multiple studies have associated IFITMs with cancer progression. Our study has identified new proteins associated with IFITMs which support their role in mediating protein expression; a pivotal function that is highly relevant for viral infection and cancer progression. Our results suggest that IFITM1/3 affect the expression of targeted proteins; among them, we identified HLA-B. Changes in HLA-B expression could impact the presentation and recognition of oncogenic antigens on the cell surface by cytotoxic T cells and, ultimately, limit tumor cell eradication. In addition, the role of IFITMs in mediating protein abundance is relevant, as it has the potential for regulating the expression of viral and oncogenic proteins.
PXD030894	36009432	miRNome and Proteome Profiling of Small Extracellular Vesicles Secreted by Human Glioblastoma Cell Lines and Primary Cancer Stem Cells. 	Exosomes from GBM established cell lines (U87, U373) and GBM primary CSC	EVs, cancer stem cells, exosome, glioblatoma	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most common and aggressive brain tumor in adults. Despite available therapeutic interventions, it is very difficult to treat, and a cure is not yet available. The intra-tumoral GBM heterogeneity is a crucial factor contributing to poor clinical outcomes. GBM derives from a small heterogeneous population of cancer stem cells (CSCs). In cancer tissue, CSCs are concentrated within the so-called niches, where they progress from a slowly proliferating phase. CSCs, as most tumor cells, release extracellular vesicles (EVs) into the surrounding microenvironment. To explore the role of EVs in CSCs and GBM tumor cells, we investigated the miRNA and protein content of the small EVs (sEVs) secreted by two GBM-established cell lines and by GBM primary CSCs using omics analysis. Our data indicate that GBM-sEVs are selectively enriched for miRNAs that are known to display tumor suppressor activity, while their protein cargo is enriched for oncoproteins and tumor-associated proteins. Conversely, among the most up-regulated miRNAs in CSC-sEVs, we also found pro-tumor miRNAs and proteins related to stemness, cell proliferation, and apoptosis. Collectively, our findings support the hypothesis that sEVs selectively incorporate different miRNAs and proteins belonging both to fundamental processes (e.g., cell proliferation, cell death, stemness) as well as to more specialized ones (e.g., EMT, membrane docking, cell junction organization, ncRNA processing).
PXD035845	36010568	Effects of Extracellular Vesicles from Osteogenic Differentiated Human BMSCs on Osteogenic and Adipogenic Differentiation Capacity of Naive Human BMSCs. 	Extracellular vesicles from osteogenic differentiated human BMSCs	BMSC, EV	Osteoporosis, or steroid-induced osteonecrosis of the hip, is accompanied by increased bone marrow adipogenesis. Such a disorder of adipogenic/osteogenic differentiation, affecting bone-marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs), contributes to bone loss during aging. Here, we investigated the effects of extracellular vesicles (EVs) isolated from human (h)BMSCs during different stages of osteogenic differentiation on the osteogenic and adipogenic differentiation capacity of naive (undifferentiated) hBMSCs. We observed that all EV groups increased viability and proliferation capacity and suppressed the apoptosis of naive hBMSCs. In particular, EVs derived from hBMSCs at late-stage osteogenic differentiation promoted the osteogenic potential of naive hBMSCs more effectively than EVs derived from naive hBMSCs (naive EVs), as indicated by the increased gene expression of COL1A1 and OPN. In contrast, the adipogenic differentiation capacity of naive hBMSCs was inhibited by treatment with EVs from osteogenic differentiated hBMSCs. Proteomic analysis revealed that osteogenic EVs and naive EVs contained distinct protein profiles, with pro-osteogenic and anti-adipogenic proteins encapsulated in osteogenic EVs. We speculate that osteogenic EVs could serve as an intercellular communication system between bone- and bone-marrow adipose tissue, for transporting osteogenic factors and thus favoring pro-osteogenic processes. Our data may support the theory of an endocrine circuit with the skeleton functioning as a ductless gland.
PXD032359	36010852	Circulating SOD2 Is a Candidate Response Biomarker for Neoadjuvant Therapy in Breast Cancer. 	Circulating SOD2 is a Response Biomarker for Neoadjuvant Therapy in Breast Cancer	SOD2, biomarker, proteolysis-resistant proteins	There is a great need for non-invasive tools that inform of an early molecular response to cancer therapeutic treatment. Here, we tested the hypothesis that proteolytically resistant proteins could be candidate circulating tumor biomarkers for cancer therapy. Proteins resistant to proteolysis are drastically under-sampled by current proteomic workflows. These proteins could be reliable sensors for the response to therapy since they are likely to stay longer in circulation. We selected manganese superoxide dismutase (SOD2), a mitochondrial redox enzyme, from a screening of proteolytic resistant proteins in breast cancer (BC). First, we confirmed the robustness of SOD2 and determined that its proteolytic resistance is mediated by its quaternary protein structure. We also proved that the release of SOD2 upon chemotherapy treatment correlates with cell death in BC cells. Then, after confirming that SOD2 is very stable in human serum, we sought to measure its circulating levels in a cohort of BC patients undergoing neoadjuvant therapy. The results showed that circulating levels of SOD2 increased when patients responded to the treatment according to the tumor shrinkage during neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Therefore, the measurement of SOD2 levels in plasma could improve the non-invasive monitoring of the therapeutic treatment in breast cancer patients. The identification of circulating biomarkers linked to the tumor cell death induced by treatment could be useful for monitoring the action of the large number of cancer drugs currently used in clinics. We envision that our approach could help uncover candidate tumor biomarkers to measure a tumor's response to cancer therapy in real time by sampling the tumor throughout the course of treatment.
PXD034044	36010968	Multi-Omic Analysis of Two Common P53 Mutations: Proteins Regulated by Mutated P53 as Potential Targets for Immunotherapy. 	The HLA peptide repertoire of SaOS-2 cell line transfected with TP53 protein	HLA, Immunopeptidomics, SaOS-2, TP53 protein	The p53 protein is mutated in more than 50% of human cancers. Mutated p53 proteins not only lose their normal function but often acquire novel oncogenic functions, a phenomenon termed mutant p53 gain-of-function. Mutant p53 has been shown to affect the transcription of a range of genes, as well as protein-protein interactions with transcription factors and other effectors; however, no one has intensively investigated and identified these proteins, or their MHC presented epitopes, from the viewpoint of their ability to act as targets for immunotherapeutic interventions. We investigated the molecular changes that occurred after the TP53 null osteosarcoma cells, SaOS-2, were transfected with one of two conformational p53-mutants, either R175H or R273H. We then examined the phenotypic and functional changes using macroscopic observations, proliferation, gene expression and proteomics alongside immunopeptidome profiling of peptide antigen presentation in the context of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules. We identified several candidate proteins in both TP53 mutant cell lines with differential expression when compared to the TP53 null vector control, SaOS-V. Quantitative SWATH proteomics combined with immune-peptidome analysis of the class-I eluted peptides identified several epitopes presented on pMHC and in silico analysis shortlisted which antigens were expressed in a range of cancerous but not adjacent healthy tissues. Out of all the candidates, KLC1 and TOP2A showed high levels of expression in every tumor type examined. From these proteins, three A2 and four pan HLA-A epitopes were identified in both R175H and R273H from TOP2A. We have now provided a short list of future immunotherapy targets for the treatment of cancers harboring mutated TP53.
PXD033636	36011023	Recurrent NOMO1 Gene Deletion Is a Potential Clinical Marker in Early-Onset Colorectal Cancer and Is Involved in the Regulation of Cell Migration. 	Analysis of of the ole of NOMO1 in early-onset colorectal cancer (EOCRC)	Colorectal cancer, EOCRC, label free	The incidence of early-onset colorectal cancer (EOCRC; age younger than 50 years) has been progressively increasing over the last decades globally, with causes unexplained. A distinct molecular feature of EOCRC is that compared with cases of late-onset colorectal cancer, in EOCRC cases, there is a higher incidence of Nodal Modulator 1 (NOMO1) somatic deletions. However, the mechanisms of NOMO1 in early-onset colorectal carcinogenesis are currently unknown. In this study, we show that in 30% of EOCRCs with heterozygous deletion of NOMO1, there were pathogenic mutations in this gene, suggesting that NOMO1 can be inactivated by deletion or mutation in EOCRC. To study the role of NOMO1 in EOCRC, CRISPR/cas9 technology was employed to generate NOMO1 knockout HCT-116 (EOCRC) and HS-5 (bone marrow) cell lines. NOMO1 loss in these cell lines did not perturb Nodal pathway signaling nor cell proliferation. Expression microarrays, RNA sequencing, and protein expression analysis by LC-IMS/MS showed that NOMO1 inactivation deregulates other signaling pathways independent of the Nodal pathway, such as epithelial-mesenchymal transition and cell migration. Significantly, NOMO1 loss increased the migration capacity of CRC cells. Additionally, a gut-specific conditional NOMO1 KO mouse model revealed no subsequent tumor development in mice. Overall, these findings suggest that NOMO1 could play a secondary role in early-onset colorectal carcinogenesis because its loss increases the migration capacity of CRC cells. Therefore, further study is warranted to explore other signalling pathways deregulated by NOMO1 loss that may play a significant role in the pathogenesis of the disease.
PXD034175	36012106	Discovering Biomarkers for Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis Patients with and without Hepatocellular Carcinoma Using Fecal Metaproteomics. 	Discovering biomarkers for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis pa-tients with and without hepatocellular carcinoma using fecal metaproteomics	Metaproteomics, fecal microbiota, hepatocellular carcinoma, ma-chine learning, non-alcoholic steatohepatitis	High-calorie diets lead to hepatic steatosis and to the development of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), which can evolve over many years into the inflammatory form of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), posing a risk for the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Due to diet and liver alteration, the axis between liver and gut is disturbed, resulting in gut microbiome alterations. Consequently, detecting these gut microbiome alterations represents a promising strategy for early NASH and HCC detection. We analyzed medical parameters and the fecal metaproteome of 19 healthy controls, 32 NASH patients, and 29 HCC patients, targeting the discovery of diagnostic biomarkers. Here, NASH and HCC resulted in increased inflammation status and shifts within the composition of the gut microbiome. An increased abundance of kielin/chordin, E3 ubiquitin ligase, and nucleophosmin 1 represented valuable fecal biomarkers, indicating disease-related changes in the liver. Although a single biomarker failed to separate NASH and HCC, machine learning-based classification algorithms provided an 86% accuracy in distinguishing between controls, NASH, and HCC. Fecal metaproteomics enables early detection of NASH and HCC by providing single biomarkers and machine learning-based metaprotein panels.
PXD035184	36012204	Differential CFTR-Interactome Proximity Labeling Procedures Identify Enrichment in Multiple SLC Transporters. 	Interactome of CFTR using Apex and TurboID proximity labelling	Apex, CFTR, KCNK3, TurboID, interactome	Proteins interacting with CFTR and its mutants have been intensively studied using different experimental approaches. These studies provided information on the cellular processes leading to proper protein folding, routing to the plasma membrane, recycling, activation and degradation. Recently, new approaches have been developed based on the proximity labeling of protein partners or proteins in close vicinity and their subsequent identification by mass spectrometry. In this study, we evaluated TurboID- and APEX2-based proximity labeling of WT CFTR and compared the obtained data to those reported in databases. The CFTR-WT interactome was then compared to that of two CFTR (G551D and W1282X) mutants and the structurally unrelated potassium channel KCNK3. The two proximity labeling approaches identified both known and additional CFTR protein partners, including multiple SLC transporters. Proximity labeling approaches provided a more comprehensive picture of the CFTR interactome and improved our knowledge of the CFTR environment.
PXD034780	36012265	The IRE1alpha-XBP1s Arm of the Unfolded Protein Response Activates N-Glycosylation to Remodel the Subepithelial Basement Membrane in Paramyxovirus Infection. 	The role of IRE1-XBP1 in RSV-mediated extracellular matrix production	Hexosamine biosynthetic pathway, RSV, innate immunity, unfolded protein response	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) causes severe lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI) associated with decreased pulmonary function, asthma, and allergy. Recently, we demonstrated that RSV induces the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway via the unfolded protein response (UPR), which is a pathway controlling protein glycosylation and secretion of the extracellular matrix (ECM). Because the presence of matrix metalloproteinases and matricellular growth factors (TGF) is associated with severe LRTI, we studied the effect of RSV on ECM remodeling and found that RSV enhances the deposition of fibronectin-rich ECM by small airway epithelial cells in a manner highly dependent on the inositol requiring kinase (IRE1alpha)-XBP1 arm of the UPR. To understand this effect comprehensively, we applied pharmacoproteomics to understand the effect of the UPR on N-glycosylation and ECM secretion in RSV infection. We observe that RSV induces N-glycosylation and the secretion of proteins related to ECM organization, secretion, or proteins integral to plasma membranes, such as integrins, laminins, collagens, and ECM-modifying enzymes, in an IRE1alpha-XBP1 dependent manner. Using a murine paramyxovirus model that activates the UPR in vivo, we validate the IRE1alpha-XBP1-dependent secretion of ECM to alveolar space. This study extends understanding of the IRE1alpha-XBP1 pathway in regulating N-glycosylation coupled to structural remodeling of the epithelial basement membrane in RSV infection.
PXD033855	36012437	The NtrYX Two-Component System of Paracoccus denitrificans Is Required for the Maintenance of Cellular Iron Homeostasis and for a Complete Denitrification under Iron-Limited Conditions. 	Proteome of NtrY defective mutant in Paracoccus denitrificans PD1222	NtrXY system, Paracoccus denitrificans, denitrification	Denitrification consists of the sequential reduction of nitrate to nitrite, nitric oxide, nitrous oxide, and dinitrogen. Nitrous oxide escapes to the atmosphere, depending on copper availability and other environmental factors. Iron is also a key element because many proteins involved in denitrification contain iron-sulfur or heme centers. The NtrYX two-component regulatory system mediates the responses in a variety of metabolic processes, including denitrification. A quantitative proteomic analysis of a Paracoccus denitrificans NtrY mutant grown under denitrifying conditions revealed the induction of different TonB-dependent siderophore transporters and proteins related to iron homeostasis. This mutant showed lower intracellular iron content than the wild-type strain, and a reduced growth under denitrifying conditions in iron-limited media. Under iron-rich conditions, it releases higher concentrations of siderophores and displayes lower nitrous oxide reductase (NosZ) activity than the wild-type, thus leading to nitrous oxide emission. Bioinformatic and qRT-PCR analyses revealed that NtrYX is a global transcriptional regulatory system that responds to iron starvation and, in turn, controls expression of the iron-responsive regulators fur, rirA, and iscR, the denitrification regulators fnrP and narR, the nitric oxide-responsive regulator nnrS, and a wide set of genes, including the cd1-nitrite reductase NirS, nitrate/nitrite transporters and energy electron transport proteins.
PXD034528	36012475	Rapid Synergistic Biofilm Production of Pseudomonas and Candida on the Pulmonary Cell Surface and in Mice, a Possible Cause of Chronic Mixed Organismal Lung Lesions. 	The architecture and pathogenesis of Pseudomonas-Candida biofilms in infections and their influence on the microenvironment	Candida albicans, Interkingdom biofilms, Pneumonia, Pseudompnas aeruginosa	Due to the possible co-presence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Candida albicans (the most common nosocomial pathogens) in lungs, rapid interkingdom biofilm production is possible. As such, PA+CA produced more dominant biofilms on the pulmonary epithelial surface (NCI-H292) (confocal fluorescent extracellular matrix staining) with dominant psl upregulation, as demonstrated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), after 8 h of experiments than PA alone. With a proteomic analysis, rhamnosyltransferase RhlB protein (Psl-associated quorum-sensing protein) was found to be among the high-abundance proteins in PA+CA than in PA biofilms, supporting psl-mediated biofilms in PA+CA on the cell surface. Additionally, PA+CA increased supernatant cytokines (IL-8 and IL-13, but not TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-10) with a similar upregulation of TLR-4, TLR-5, and TLR-9 (by PCR) compared with PA-stimulated cells. The intratracheal administration of PA+CA induced a greater severity of sepsis (serum creatinine, alanine transaminase, serum cytokines, and histology score) and prominent biofilms (fluorescent staining) with psl upregulation (PCR). In comparison with PA+CA biofilms on glass slides, PA+CA biofilms on biotic surfaces were more prominent (fluorescent staining). In conclusion, PA+CA induced Psl-predominant biofilms on the pulmonary cell surface and in mice with acute pneumonia, and these biofilms were more prominent than those induced by PA alone, highlighting the impact of Candida on rapid interkingdom biofilm production.
PXD024578	36012857	Virulence-Associated Genes of Calonectria ilicola, Responsible for Cylindrocladium Black Rot. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of the plant-pathogen interaction in resistant and susceptible peanut cultivars infected by Cylindrocladium parasiticum	Cylindrocladium parasiticum, peanut, plant defence	The Cylindrocladium black rot caused by Calonectria ilicicola is a destructive disease affecting a broad range of crops. Herein, we study virulence-associated genes of C. ilicicolaCi14017 isolated from diseased peanut roots (Arachis hypogaea L.). Ci14017 was identified via phylogenetic analysis of the internal transcribed spacer region and standard Koch's postulate testing. Virulence-associated genes were based on genome analyses and comparative analysis of transcriptome and proteome profiles of sensitive and resistant peanut cultivars. Ci14017 identified as C. ilicicola has a 66 Mb chromosome with 18,366 predicted protein-coding genes. Overall, 46 virulence-associated genes with enhanced expression levels in the sensitive cultivars were identified. Sequence analysis indicated that the 46 gene products included two merops proteins, eight carbohydrate-active enzymes, seven cytochrome P450 enzymes, eight lipases, and 20 proteins with multi-conserved enzyme domains. The results indicate a complex infection mechanism employed by Ci14017 for causing Cylindrocladium black rot in peanuts.
PXD035325	36014027	Adaptation and Resistance: How Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron Copes with the Bisphenol A Substitute Bisphenol F. 	Adaptation and resistance: How B. thetaiotaomicron copes with the bisphenol A substitute bisphenol F	Xenobiotics, bisphenols, fatty acid methyl ester, gut microbiome, short-chain fatty acids	Bisphenols are used in the process of polymerization of polycarbonate plastics and epoxy resins. Bisphenols can easily migrate out of plastic products and enter the gastrointestinal system. By increasing colonic inflammation in mice, disrupting the intestinal bacterial community structure and altering the microbial membrane transport system in zebrafish, bisphenols seem to interfere with the gut microbiome. The highly abundant human commensal bacterium Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron was exposed to bisphenols (Bisphenol A (BPA), Bisphenol F (BPF), Bisphenol S (BPS)), to examine the mode of action, in particular of BPF. All chemicals caused a concentration-dependent growth inhibition and the half-maximal effective concentration (EC50) corresponded to their individual logP values, a measure of their hydrophobicity. B. thetaiotaomicron exposed to BPF decreased membrane fluidity with increasing BPF concentrations. Physiological changes including an increase of acetate concentrations were observed. On the proteome level, a higher abundance of several ATP synthase subunits and multidrug efflux pumps suggested an increased energy demand for adaptive mechanisms after BPF exposure. Defense mechanisms were also implicated by a pathway analysis that identified a higher abundance of members of resistance pathways/strategies to cope with xenobiotics (i.e., antibiotics). Here, we present further insights into the mode of action of bisphenols in a human commensal gut bacterium regarding growth inhibition, and the physiological and functional state of the cell. These results, combined with microbiota-directed effects, could lead to a better understanding of host health disturbances and disease development based on xenobiotic uptake.
PXD034196	36014414	Quantitative Proteomics Explore the Potential Targets and Action Mechanisms of Hydroxychloroquine. 	Quantitative proteomics explores the potential targets and action mechanisms of hydroxychloroquine	Binding targets, Hydroxychloroquine, Quantitative proteomics, Thermal proteome profiling	Hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) is an autophagy inhibitor that has been used for the treatment of many diseases, such as malaria, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and cancer. Despite the therapeutic advances in these diseases, the underlying mechanisms have not been well determined and hinder the rational use of this drug in the future. Here, we explored the possible mechanisms and identified the potential binding targets of HCQ by performing quantitative proteomics and thermal proteome profiling on MIA PaCa-2 cells. This study revealed that HCQ may exert its functions by targeting some autophagy-related proteins such as ribosyldihydronicotinamide dehydrogenase (NQO2) and transport protein Sec23A (SEC23A), or regulating the expression of galectin-8 (LGALS8), mitogen-activated protein kinase 8 (MAPK8), and so on. Furthermore, HCQ may prevent the progression of pancreatic cancer by regulating the expression of nesprin-2 (SYNE2), protein-S-isoprenylcysteine O-methyltransferase (ICMT), and cotranscriptional regulator FAM172A (FAM172A). Together, these findings not only identified potential binding targets for HCQ but also revealed the non-canonical mechanisms of HCQ that may contribute to pancreatic cancer treatment.
PXD034456	36014793	Serum Metabolomics and Proteomics to Study the Antihypertensive Effect of Protein Extracts from Tenebrio molitor. 	Serum metabolomics and proteomics to study the antihyperten-2 sive effect of Tenebrio molitor extracts	SHR rats, blood pressure, functional food, insect protein supplementation, multi-omics	Hypertension is the leading risk factor for premature death worldwide and significantly contributes to the development of all major cardiovascular disease events. The management of high blood pressure includes lifestyle changes and treatment with antihypertensive drugs. Recently, it was demonstrated that a diet supplemented with Tenebrio molitor (TM) extracts is useful in the management of numerous pathologies, including hypertension. This study is aimed at unveiling the underlying mechanism and the molecular targets of intervention of TM dietary supplementation in hypertension treatment by means of proteomics and metabolomics techniques based on liquid chromatography coupled with high-resolution mass spectrometry. We demonstrate that serum proteome and metabolome of spontaneously hypertensive rats are severely altered with respect to their normotensive counterparts. Additionally, our results reveal that a diet enriched with TM extracts restores the expression of 15 metabolites and 17 proteins mainly involved in biological pathways associated with blood pressure maintenance, such as the renin-angiotensin and kallikrein-kinin systems, serin protease inhibitors, reactive oxygen scavenging, and lipid peroxidation. This study provides novel insights into the molecular pathways that may underlie the beneficial effects of TM, thus corroborating that TM could be proposed as a helpful functional food supplement in the treatment of hypertension.
PXD032300	36014946	A High-Fat Diet Modifies Brain Neurotransmitter Profile and Hippocampal Proteome and Morphology in an IUGR Pig Model. 	A high fat diet modifies brain neurotransmitter profile and hippocampal proteome and morphology in an IUGR pig model	brain, high fat diet, hippocampus, intrauterine growth restriction, metabolism, neurotransmitters, pig	Intrauterine Growth Restriction (IUGR) hinders the correct growth of the fetus during pregnancy due to the lack of oxygen or nutrients. The developing fetus gives priority to brain development ("brain sparing"), but the risk exists of neurological and cognitive deficits at short or long term. On the other hand, diets rich in fat exert pernicious effects on brain function. Using a pig model of spontaneous IUGR, we have studied the effect on the adult of a long-term high-fat diet (HFD) on the neurotransmitter profile in several brain areas, and the morphology and the proteome of the hippocampus. Our hypothesis was that animals affected by IUGR (born with low birth weight) would present a different susceptibility to an HFD when they become adults, compared with normal birth-weight animals. Our results indicate that HFD affected the serotoninergic pathway, but it did not provoke relevant changes in the morphology of the hippocampus. Finally, the proteomic analysis revealed that, in some instances, NBW and LBW individuals respond to HFD in different ways. In particular, NBW animals presented changes in oxidative phosphorylation and the extracellular matrix, whereas LBW animals presented differences in RNA splicing, anterograde and retrograde transport and the mTOR pathway.
PXD031302	36016933	Identification of nine signature proteins involved in periodontitis by integrated analysis of TMT proteomics and transcriptomics. 	Identification of nine signature proteins of gingival tissue involved in periodontitis by integrated analysis of TMT-proteomics	Artificial neural network, Gingiva, Inflammation and immune response, LASSO, Periodontitis, Signature proteins, TMT-proteomics	Recently, there are many researches on signature molecules of periodontitis derived from different periodontal tissues to determine the disease occurrence and development, and deepen the understanding of this complex disease. Among them, a variety of omics techniques have been utilized to analyze periodontitis pathology and progression. However, few accurate signature molecules are known and available. Herein, we aimed to screened and identified signature molecules suitable for distinguishing periodontitis patients using machine learning models by integrated analysis of TMT proteomics and transcriptomics with the purpose of finding novel prediction or diagnosis targets. Differential protein profiles, functional enrichment analysis, and protein-protein interaction network analysis were conducted based on TMT proteomics of 15 gingival tissues from healthy and periodontitis patients. DEPs correlating with periodontitis were screened using LASSO regression. We constructed a new diagnostic model using an artificial neural network (ANN) and verified its efficacy based on periodontitis transcriptomics datasets (GSE10334 and GSE16134). Western blotting validated expression levels of hub DEPs. TMT proteomics revealed 5658 proteins and 115 DEPs, and the 115 DEPs are closely related to inflammation and immune activity. Nine hub DEPs were screened by LASSO, and the ANN model distinguished healthy from periodontitis patients. The model showed satisfactory classification ability for both training (AUC=0.972) and validation (AUC=0.881) cohorts by ROC analysis. Expression levels of the 9 hub DEPs were validated and consistent with TMT proteomics quantitation. Our work reveals that nine hub DEPs in gingival tissues are closely related to the occurrence and progression of periodontitis and are potential signature molecules involved in periodontitis.
PXD033793	36018058	1DE-MS Profiling for Proteoform-Correlated Proteomic Analysis, by Combining SDS-PAGE, Whole-Gel Slicing, Quantitative LC-MS/MS, and Reconstruction of Gel Distributions of Several Thousands of Proteins. 	1DE-MS profiling of rat cerebral cortex proteins of focal cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury by combining SDS-PAGE, gel slicing, quantitative LC-MS/MS and profile reconstruction	1DE-MS, SDS-PAGE, brain ischemia-reperfusion injury, cerebral cortex proteins, gel distribution profiling, gel slicing, proteoforms, rat	SDS-PAGE has often been used in proteomic analysis, but generally for sample prefractionation although the technique separates proteins by molecular masses (Mws) and the information would contribute to proteoform-level analysis. Here, we report a method that combines SDS-PAGE, whole-gel slicing, and quantitative LC-MS/MS for establishing gel distributions of several thousand proteins in a proteome. A previously obtained data set on rat cerebral cortex with cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury(1) was analyzed, and the gel distributions of 5906 proteins were reconstructed. These distributions, referred to as 1DE-MS profiles, revealed that about 30% of the proteins had more than one proteoform detected in the gels. The profiles were categorized into six types by distribution (narrow, dispersed, or broad) and relative deviations between the abundance-peak apparent Mws and calculated Mws. Only 56% of the proteins showed narrow distributions and matched Mws, while the others had rather complex profiles. Bioinformatic analysis on example profiles showed the resolved proteoforms involved alternative splicing, proteolytic processing, glycosylation and ubiquitination, fragmentation, and probably transmembrane structures. Profile-based differential analysis revealed that many of the disease-caused changes were proteoform dependent. This work provided a proteome-scale view of protein distributions in SDS-PAGE gels, and the method would be useful to obtain proteoform-correlated information for in-depth proteomics.
PXD035811	36018335	Concentration and composition of the protein corona as a function of incubation time and serum concentration: an automated approach to the protein corona. 	Concentration and composition of the protein corona as a function of incubation time and serum concentration	Bovine, Protein Corona, Serum, magnetic nanoparticles	Nanoparticles in contact with proteins form a "corona" of proteins adsorbed on the nanoparticle surface. Subsequent biological responses are then mediated by the adsorbed proteins rather than the bare nanoparticles. The use of nanoparticles as nanomedicines and biosensors would be greatly improved if researchers were able to predict which specific proteins will adsorb on a nanoparticle surface. We use a recently developed automated workflow with a liquid handling robot and low-cost proteomics to determine the concentration and composition of the protein corona formed on carboxylate-modified iron oxide nanoparticles (200 nm) as a function of incubation time and serum concentration. We measure the concentration of the resulting protein corona with a colorimetric assay and the composition of the corona with proteomics, reporting both abundance and enrichment relative to the fetal bovine serum (FBS) proteins used to form the corona. Incubation time was found to be an important parameter for corona concentration and composition at high (100% FBS) incubation concentrations, with only a slight effect at low (10%) FBS concentrations. In addition to these findings, we describe two methodological advances to help reduce the cost associated with protein corona experiments. We have automated the digest step necessary for proteomics and measured the variability between triplicate samples at each stage of the proteomics experiments. Overall, these results demonstrate the importance of understanding the multiple parameters that influence corona formation, provide new tools for corona characterization, and advance bioanalytical research in nanomaterials.
PXD030106	36018804	Rbp95 binds to 25S rRNA helix H95 and cooperates with the Npa1 complex during early pre-60S particle maturation. 	Rbp95 binds 25S rRNA helix H95 and cooperates with the Npa1 complex during early pre-60S particle maturation	Npa1, Rbp95, S. cerevisiae, Tandem-Affinity Purification (TAP), pre-60S particles, ribosome assembly factor	Eukaryotic ribosome synthesis involves more than 200 assembly factors, which promote ribosomal RNA (rRNA) processing, modification and folding, and assembly of ribosomal proteins. The formation and maturation of the earliest pre-60S particles requires structural remodeling by the Npa1 complex, but is otherwise still poorly understood. Here, we introduce Rbp95 (Ycr016w), a constituent of early pre-60S particles, as a novel ribosome assembly factor. We show that Rbp95 is both genetically and physically linked to most Npa1 complex members and to ribosomal protein Rpl3. We demonstrate that Rbp95 is an RNA-binding protein containing two independent RNA-interacting domains. In vivo, Rbp95 associates with helix H95 in the 3' region of the 25S rRNA, in close proximity to the binding sites of Npa1 and Rpl3. Additionally, Rbp95 interacts with several snoRNAs. The absence of Rbp95 results in alterations in the protein composition of early pre-60S particles. Moreover, combined mutation of Rbp95 and Npa1 complex members leads to a delay in the maturation of early pre-60S particles. We propose that Rbp95 acts together with the Npa1 complex during early pre-60S maturation, potentially by promoting pre-rRNA folding events within pre-60S particles.
PXD033197	36026444	A mechanism of gene evolution generating mucin function. 	A mechanism of gene evolution generating mucin function	O-glycosylation, adaptation, convergent evolution, genomic structural variants, mucins, neofunctionalization, parallel evolution, saliva, sub-exonic repeats	How novel gene functions evolve is a fundamental question in biology. Mucin proteins, a functionally but not evolutionarily defined group of proteins, allow the study of convergent evolution of gene function. By analyzing the genomic variation of mucins across a wide range of mammalian genomes, we propose that exonic repeats and their copy number variation contribute substantially to the de novo evolution of new gene functions. By integrating bioinformatic, phylogenetic, proteomic, and immunohistochemical approaches, we identified 15 undescribed instances of evolutionary convergence, where novel mucins originated by gaining densely O-glycosylated exonic repeat domains. Our results suggest that secreted proteins rich in proline are natural precursors for acquiring mucin function. Our findings have broad implications for understanding the role of exonic repeats in the parallel evolution of new gene functions, especially those involving protein glycosylation.
PXD031980	36028903	LncRNA MILIP links YBX1 to translational activation of Snai1 and promotes metastasis in clear cell renal cell carcinoma. 	Proteins co-precipitated with MILIP in ccRCC cells	MILIP, ccRCC	BACKGROUND: Distant metastasis is the major cause of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC)-associated mortality. However, molecular mechanisms involved in ccRCC metastasis remain to be fully understood. With the increasing appreciation of the role of long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) in cancer development, progression, and treatment resistance, the list of aberrantly expressed lncRNAs contributing to ccRCC pathogenesis is expanding rapidly. METHODS: Bioinformatics analysis was carried out to interrogate publicly available ccRCC datasets. In situ hybridization and qRT-PCR assays were used to test lncRNA expression in human ccRCC tissues and cell lines, respectively. Chromatin immunoprecipitation and luciferase reporter assays were used to examine transcriptional regulation of gene expression. Wound healing as well as transwell migration and invasion assays were employed to monitor ccRCC cell migration and invasion in vitro. ccRCC metastasis was also examined using mouse models in vivo. RNA pulldown and RNA immunoprecipitation were performed to test RNA-protein associations, whereas RNA-RNA interactions were tested using domain-specific chromatin isolation by RNA purification. RESULTS: MILIP expression was upregulated in metastatic compared with primary ccRCC tissues. The increased MILIP expression in metastatic ccRCC cells was driven by the transcription factor AP-2 gamma (TFAP2C). Knockdown of MILIP diminished the potential of ccRCC cell migration and invasion in vitro and reduced the formation of ccRCC metastatic lesions in vivo. The effect of MILIP on ccRCC cells was associated with alterations in the expression of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) hallmark genes. Mechanistically, MILIP formed an RNA-RNA duplex with the snail family transcriptional repressor 1 (Snai1) mRNA and bound to Y-box binding protein 1 (YBX1). This promoted the association between the YBX1 protein and the Snai1 mRNA, leading to increased translation of the latter. Snai1 in turn played an important role in MILIP-driven ccRCC metastasis. CONCLUSIONS: The TFAP2C-responsive lncRNA MILIP drives ccRCC metastasis. Targeting MILIP may thus represent a potential avenue for ccRCC treatment.
PXD034232	36030297	Global-Scale Profiling of Differential Expressed Lysine-Lactylated Proteins in the Cerebral Endothelium of Cerebral Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury Rats. 	Global-scale profiling of differential expressed lysine lactylated proteins in cerebral endothelium of cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury rats	Ca2+ signaling pathway, Cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury, Lysine lactylation, PTMs	Acute ischemic stroke (AIS) is a serious threat to human health. Following AIS, cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI) must be treated to improve prognosis. By combining 4D label-free quantitative proteomics with lactylation modification-specific proteomics analysis, we assessed lysine lactylation (Kla) in cortical proteins of a CIRI rat model. We identified a total of 1003 lactylation sites on 469 proteins in this study, gathering quantitative information (PXD034232) on 660 of 310 proteins, which were further classified by cell composition, molecular function, and biological processes. In addition, we analyzed the metabolic pathways, domains, and protein-protein interaction networks. Lastly, we evaluated differentially expressed lysine lactylation sites, determining 49 upregulated proteins and 99 downregulated proteins with 54 upregulated sites and 54 downregulated sites in the experimental group in comparison with the healthy control group. Moreover, we identified the Kla of Scl25a4 and Slc25a5 in the Ca(2+) signaling pathway, but the Kla of Vdac1 was eliminated, as confirmed in vivo. Overall, these results provide new insights into lactylation involved in the underlying mechanism of CIRI because this post-translational modification affects the mitochondrial apoptosis pathway and mediates neuronal death. Therefore, this study may enable us to develop new molecules with therapeutic properties, which have both theoretical significance and broad clinical application prospects. A new model of cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury (CIRI) induced by lactylation through the regulation of key proteins of the Ca(2+) signaling pathway.
PXD031450	36030822	Distinct functions of dimeric and monomeric scaffold protein Alix in regulating F-actin assembly and loading of exosomal cargo. 	Distinct functions of dimeric and monomeric Alix in regulating F-actin  assembly and loading of exosomal cargo	Alix, actin, cytoskeleton, dimerization, disulfide, exosome, homeostasis, syntenin	Alix is a ubiquitously expressed scaffold protein that participates in numerous cellular processes related to the remodeling/repair of membranes and the actin cytoskeleton. Alix exists in monomeric and dimeric/multimeric configurations, but how dimer formation occurs and what role the dimer has in Alix-mediated processes are still largely elusive. Here, we reveal a mechanism for Alix homodimerization mediated by disulfide bonds under physiological conditions and demonstrate that the Alix dimer is enriched in exosomes and F-actin cytoskeleton subcellular fractions. Proteomic analysis of exosomes derived from Alix(-/-) primary cells underlined the indispensable role of Alix in loading syntenin into exosomes, thereby regulating the cellular levels of this protein. Using a set of deletion mutants, we define the function of Alix Bro1 domain, which is solely required for its exosomal localization, and that of the V domain, which is needed for recruiting syntenin into exosomes. We reveal an essential role for Cys(814) within the disordered proline-rich domain for Alix dimerization. By mutating this residue, we show that Alix remains exclusively monomeric and, in this configuration, is effective in loading syntenin into exosomes. In contrast, loss of dimerization affects the ability of Alix to associate with F-actin, thereby compromising Alix-mediated cytoskeleton remodeling. We propose that dimeric and monomeric forms of Alix selectively execute two of the protein's main functions: exosomal cargo loading and cytoskeleton remodeling.
PXD030701	36030823	Multi-OMICs analysis reveals metabolic and epigenetic changes associated with macrophage polarization. 	Multi-OMICs analysis of metabolites, proteins, and histone modifications during human macrophage polarization reveals novel regulatory pathways	Macrophage, multi-omics.	Macrophages (MPhi) are an essential immune cell for defense and repair that travel to different tissues and adapt based on local stimuli. A critical factor that may govern their polarization is the crosstalk between metabolism and epigenetics. However, simultaneous measurements of metabolites, epigenetics, and proteins (phenotype) have been a major technical challenge. To address this, we have developed a novel triomics approach using mass spectrometry to comprehensively analyze metabolites, proteins, and histone modifications in a single sample. To demonstrate this technique, we investigated the metabolic-epigenetic-phenotype axis following polarization of human blood-derived monocytes into either 'proinflammatory M1-' or 'anti-inflammatory M2-' MPhis. We report here a complex relationship between arginine, tryptophan, glucose, and the citric acid cycle metabolism, protein and histone post-translational modifications, and human macrophage polarization that was previously not described. Surprisingly, M1-MPhis had globally reduced histone acetylation levels but high levels of acetylated amino acids. This suggests acetyl-CoA was diverted, in part, toward acetylated amino acids. Consistent with this, stable isotope tracing of glucose revealed reduced usage of acetyl-CoA for histone acetylation in M1-MPhis. Furthermore, isotope tracing also revealed MPhis uncoupled glycolysis from the tricarboxylic acid cycle, as evidenced by poor isotope enrichment of succinate. M2-MPhis had high levels of kynurenine and serotonin, which are reported to have immune-suppressive effects. Kynurenine is upstream of de novo NAD(+) metabolism that is a necessary cofactor for Sirtuin-type histone deacetylases. Taken together, we demonstrate a complex interplay between metabolism and epigenetics that may ultimately influence cell phenotype.
PXD034083	36031042	High-Throughput Human Complement C3 N-Glycoprofiling Identifies Markers of Early Onset Type 1 Diabetes Mellitus in Children. 	N-glycosylation analysis of human complement component C3 LC-MS	C3, LC-MS	Recently, it was shown that children at the onset of type 1 diabetes (T1D) have a higher proportion of oligomannose glycans in their total plasma protein N-glycome compared to their healthy siblings. The most abundant complement component, glycoprotein C3, contains two N-glycosylation sites occupied exclusively by this type of glycans. Furthermore, complement system, as well as C3, was previously associated with T1D. It is also known that changes in glycosylation can modulate inflammatory responses, so our aim was to characterize the glycosylation profile of C3 in T1D. For this purpose, we developed a novel high-throughput workflow for human C3 concanavalin A lectin affinity enrichment and subsequent LC-MS glycopeptide analysis which enables protein-specific N-glycosylation profiling. From the Danish Childhood Diabetes Register, plasma samples of 61 children/adolescents newly diagnosed with T1D and 84 of their unaffected siblings were C3 N-glycoprofiled. Significant changes of C3 N-glycan profiles were found. T1D was associated with an increase in the proportion of unprocessed glycan structures with more mannose units. A regression model including C3 N-glycans showed notable discriminative power between children with early onset T1D and their healthy siblings with area under curve of 0.879. This study confirmed our previous findings of plasma high-mannose glycan changes in a cohort of recent onset T1D cases, suggesting the involvement of C3 N-glycome in T1D development. Our C3 glycan-based discriminative model could be valuable in assessment of T1D risk in children.
PXD033792	36032736	Clostridium autoethanogenum isopropanol production via native plasmid pCA replicon. 	Clostridium autoethanogenum isopropanol production via native plasmid pCA replicon	Ethanol, Gas fermentation, PacBio and Illumina sequencing, Wood-ljungdahl pathway, acetogen, biofuel, synthetic biology	Clostridium autoethanogenum is a model gas-fermenting acetogen for commercial ethanol production. It is also a platform organism being developed for the carbon-negative production of acetone and isopropanol by gas fermentation. We have assembled a 5.5 kb pCA plasmid for type strain DSM10061 (JA1-1) using three genome sequence datasets. pCA is predicted to encode seven open-reading frames and estimated to be a low-copy number plasmid present at approximately 12 copies per chromosome. RNA-seq analyses indicate that pCA genes are transcribed at low levels and two proteins, CAETHG_05090 (putative replication protein) and CAETHG_05115 (hypothetical, a possible Mob protein), were detected at low levels during batch gas fermentations. Thiolase (thlA), CoA-transferase (ctfAB), and acetoacetate decarboxylase (adc) genes were introduced into a vector for isopropanol production in C. autoethanogenum using the native plasmid origin of replication. The availability of the pCA sequence will facilitate studies into its physiological role and could form the basis for genetic tool optimization.
PXD034086	36036581	Structural- and Site-Specific N-Glycosylation Characterization of COVID-19 Virus Spike with StrucGP. 	Structural- and Site-specific N-glycosylation Characterization of COVID-19 Virus Spike with StrucGP	COVID-19, Covid-19, Glycopeptides, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, Spike, StrucGP	The spike (S) protein plays a key role in COVID-19 (SARS-CoV-2) infection and host-cell entry. Previous studies have systematically analyzed site-specific glycan compositions as well as many important structural motifs of the S protein. Here, we further provide structural-clear N-glycosylation of the S protein at a site-specific level by using our recently developed structural- and site-specific N-glycoproteomics sequencing algorithm, StrucGP. In addition to the common N-glycans as detected in previous studies, many uncommon glycosylation structures such as LacdiNAc structures, Lewis structures, Mannose 6-phosphate (M6P) residues, and bisected core structures were unambiguously mapped at a total of 20 glycosites in the S protein trimer and protomer. These data further support the glycosylation structural-functional investigations of the COVID-19 virus spike.
PXD025182	36037410	Toolkit of Approaches To Support Target-Focused Drug Discovery for Plasmodium falciparum Lysyl tRNA Synthetase. 	Drug target deconvolution in Plasmodium falciparum using thermal proteomics profiling	lysine tRNA synthetase, plasmodium falciparum, thermal proteome profiling	There is a pressing need for new medicines to prevent and treat malaria. Most antimalarial drug discovery is reliant upon phenotypic screening. However, with the development of improved target validation strategies, target-focused approaches are now being utilized. Here, we describe the development of a toolkit to support the therapeutic exploitation of a promising target, lysyl tRNA synthetase (PfKRS). The toolkit includes resistant mutants to probe resistance mechanisms and on-target engagement for specific chemotypes; a hybrid KRS protein capable of producing crystals suitable for ligand soaking, thus providing high-resolution structural information to guide compound optimization; chemical probes to facilitate pulldown studies aimed at revealing the full range of specifically interacting proteins and thermal proteome profiling (TPP); as well as streamlined isothermal TPP methods to provide unbiased confirmation of on-target engagement within a biologically relevant milieu. This combination of tools and methodologies acts as a template for the development of future target-enabling packages.
PXD033462	36038536	Corosolic acid sensitizes ferroptosis by upregulating HERPUD1 in liver cancer cells. 	Effects of corosolic acid on protein expression of in Bel-7402 and Bel-7404 cells	corosolic acid, liver cancer cells	Primary liver cancer is the third leading cause of cancer death in the world, and the lack of effective treatments is the main reason for the high mortality. Corosolic acid (CA) has been proved to have antitumor activity. In this study, we found that CA can sensitize liver cancer cells to ferroptosis, which is a regulated form of cell death characterized by iron-dependent lipid peroxides reaching lethal levels. Here, we revealed that CA can inhibit glutathione (GSH) synthesis via HERPUD1, decreasing the cellular GSH level and causing liver cancer cells to become more sensitive to ferroptosis. Mechanistically, further studies found that HERPUD1 reduced the ubiquitination of the GSS-associated E3 ubiquitin ligase MDM2, which promoted ubiquitination of GSS, thereby inhibiting GSH synthesis to increase ferroptosis susceptibility. Importantly, a mouse xenograft model also demonstrated that CA inhibits tumor growth via HERPUD1. Collectively, our findings suggesting that CA is a candidate component for the development of treatments against liver cancer.
PXD035704	36038571	HnRNPK maintains single strand RNA through controlling double-strand RNA in mammalian cells. 	IER3-AS1 interacting proteins by AP-MS	IER3-AS1, Long noncoding RNA, chromatin oligo-affinity precipitation, hnRNPK, lncRNA, orbitrap	Although antisense transcription is a widespread event in the mammalian genome, double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) formation between sense and antisense transcripts is very rare and mechanisms that control dsRNA remain unknown. By characterizing the FGF-2 regulated transcriptome in normal and cancer cells, we identified sense and antisense transcripts IER3 and IER3-AS1 that play a critical role in FGF-2 controlled oncogenic pathways. We show that IER3 and IER3-AS1 regulate each other's transcription through HnRNPK-mediated post-transcriptional regulation. HnRNPK controls the mRNA stability and colocalization of IER3 and IER3-AS1. HnRNPK interaction with IER3 and IER3-AS1 determines their oncogenic functions by maintaining them in a single-stranded form. hnRNPK depletion neutralizes their oncogenic functions through promoting dsRNA formation and cytoplasmic accumulation. Intriguingly, hnRNPK loss-of-function and gain-of-function experiments reveal its role in maintaining global single- and double-stranded RNA. Thus, our data unveil the critical role of HnRNPK in maintaining single-stranded RNAs and their physiological functions by blocking RNA-RNA interactions.
PXD024106	36038749	Acid sphingomyelinase deactivation post-ischemia promotes brain angiogenesis and remodeling by small extracellular vesicles. 	Acid sphingomyelinase deactivation post-ischemia/ reperfusion promotes cerebral angiogenesis and brain remodeling via small extracellular vesiclesAcid sphingomyelinase deactivation post-ischemia/ reperfusion promotes cerebral angiogenesis and brain remode	Antidepressants, exosomes, label free quantification	Antidepressants have been reported to enhance stroke recovery independent of the presence of depressive symptoms. They have recently been proposed to exert their mood-stabilizing actions by inhibition of acid sphingomyelinase (ASM), which catalyzes the hydrolysis of sphingomyelin to ceramide. Their restorative action post-ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) still had to be defined. Mice subjected to middle cerebral artery occlusion or cerebral microvascular endothelial cells exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation were treated with vehicle or with the chemically and pharmacologically distinct antidepressants amitriptyline, fluoxetine or desipramine. Brain ASM activity significantly increased post-I/R, in line with elevated ceramide levels in microvessels. ASM inhibition by amitriptyline reduced ceramide levels, and increased microvascular length and branching point density in wildtype, but not sphingomyelinase phosphodiesterase-1 ([Smpd1](-/-)) (i.e., ASM-deficient) mice, as assessed by 3D light sheet microscopy. In cell culture, amitriptyline, fluoxetine, and desipramine increased endothelial tube formation, migration, VEGFR2 abundance and VEGF release. This effect was abolished by Smpd1 knockdown. Mechanistically, the promotion of angiogenesis by ASM inhibitors was mediated by small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) released from endothelial cells, which exhibited enhanced uptake in target cells. Proteomic analysis of sEVs revealed that ASM deactivation differentially regulated proteins implicated in protein export, focal adhesion, and extracellular matrix interaction. In vivo, the increased angiogenesis was accompanied by a profound brain remodeling response with increased blood-brain barrier integrity, reduced leukocyte infiltrates and increased neuronal survival. Antidepressive drugs potently boost angiogenesis in an ASM-dependent way. The release of sEVs by ASM inhibitors disclosed an elegant target, via which brain remodeling post-I/R can be amplified.
PXD035839	36039764	Chemically targeting the redox switch in AP1 transcription factor DeltaFOSB. 	Chemical Targeting of the Redox Switch in the Transcription Factor Î”FOSB	compound screening peptide mapping intact mass	The AP1 transcription factor DeltaFOSB, a splice variant of FOSB, accumulates in the brain in response to chronic insults such as exposure to drugs of abuse, depression, Alzheimer's disease and tardive dyskinesias, and mediates subsequent long-term neuroadaptations. DeltaFOSB forms heterodimers with other AP1 transcription factors, e.g. JUND, that bind DNA under control of a putative cysteine-based redox switch. Here, we reveal the structural basis of the redox switch by determining a key missing crystal structure in a trio, the DeltaFOSB/JUND bZIP domains in the reduced, DNA-free form. Screening a cysteine-focused library containing 3200 thiol-reactive compounds, we identify specific compounds that target the redox switch, validate their activity biochemically and in cell-based assays, and show that they are well tolerated in different cell lines despite their general potential to bind to cysteines covalently. A crystal structure of the DeltaFOSB/JUND bZIP domains in complex with a redox-switch-targeting compound reveals a deep compound-binding pocket near the DNA-binding site. We demonstrate that DeltaFOSB, and potentially other, related AP1 transcription factors, can be targeted specifically and discriminately by exploiting unique structural features such as the redox switch and the binding partner to modulate biological function despite these proteins previously being thought to be undruggable.
PXD029697	36039803	Proteomic Analysis of Adult Human Hippocampal Subfields Demonstrates Regional Heterogeneity in the Protein Expression. 	Deep proteomic analysis of human hippocampus micro-sections provides a new avenue to identify hippocampal subfield heterogeneity in the protein expression	Coronu ammonis, dentate gyrus, formalin fixed paraffin embedded tissue, immunohistochemistry, manual-microdissection, spliceosome, subfields	Background: Distinct hippocampal subfields are known to get affected during aging, psychiatric disorders, and various neurological and neurodegenerative conditions. To understand the biological processes associated with each subfield, it is important to understand its heterogeneity at the molecular level. To address this lacuna, we investigated the proteomic analysis of hippocampal subfields-the cornu ammonis sectors (CA1, CA2, CA3, CA4) and dentate gyrus (DG) from healthy adult human cohorts. Findings: Microdissection of hippocampal subfields from archived formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue sections followed by TMT-based multiplexed proteomic analysis resulted in the identification of 5,593 proteins. Out of these, 890 proteins were found to be differentially abundant among the subfields. Further bioinformatics analysis suggested proteins related to gene splicing, transportation, myelination, structural activity, and learning processes to be differentially abundant in DG, CA4, CA3, CA2, and CA1, respectively. A subset of proteins was selected for immunohistochemistry-based validation in an independent set of hippocampal samples. Conclusions: We believe that our findings will effectively pave the way for further analysis of the hippocampal subdivisions and provide awareness of its subfield-specific association to various neurofunctional anomalies in the future. The current mass spectrometry data is deposited and publicly made available through ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier PXD029697.
PXD034420	36040231	PKC isoforms activate LRRK1 kinase by phosphorylating conserved residues (Ser1064, Ser1074 and Thr1075) within the CORB GTPase domain. 	PKC isoforms activate LRRK1 kinase by phosphorylating conserved residues (Ser1064, Ser1074 and Thr1075) within the CORB GTPase domain	LRRK1, PKC, Phosphorylation, RAb7A	Leucine-rich-repeat-kinase 1 (LRRK1) and its homolog LRRK2 are multidomain kinases possessing a ROC-CORA-CORB containing GTPase domain and phosphorylate distinct Rab proteins. LRRK1 loss of function mutations cause the bone disorder osteosclerotic metaphyseal dysplasia, whereas LRRK2 missense mutations that enhance kinase activity cause Parkinson's disease. Previous work suggested that LRRK1 but not LRRK2, is activated via a Protein Kinase C (PKC)-dependent mechanism. Here we demonstrate that phosphorylation and activation of LRRK1 in HEK293 cells is blocked by PKC inhibitors including LXS-196 (Darovasertib), a compound that has entered clinical trials. We show multiple PKC isoforms phosphorylate and activate recombinant LRRK1 in a manner reversed by phosphatase treatment. PKCalpha unexpectedly does not activate LRRK1 by phosphorylating the kinase domain, but instead phosphorylates a cluster of conserved residues (Ser1064, Ser1074 and Thr1075) located within a region of the CORB domain of the GTPase domain. These residues are positioned at the equivalent region of the LRRK2 DK helix reported to stabilize the kinase domain alphaC-helix in the active conformation. Thr1075 represents an optimal PKC site phosphorylation motif and its mutation to Ala, blocked PKC-mediated activation of LRRK1. A triple Glu mutation of Ser1064/Ser1074/Thr1075 to mimic phosphorylation, enhanced LRRK1 kinase activity ~3-fold. From analysis of available structures, we postulate that phosphorylation of Ser1064, Ser1074 and Thr1075 activates LRRK1 by promoting interaction and stabilization of the alphaC-helix on the kinase domain. This study provides new fundamental insights into the mechanism controlling LRRK1 activity and reveals a novel unexpected activation mechanism.
PXD031519	36040251	Mechanistic Insights into the Functioning of a Two-Subunit GMP Synthetase, an Allosterically Regulated, Ammonia Channeling Enzyme. 	Cross-linking mass spectrometry and integrative modelling of Methanocaldococcus jannaschii GMP synthetase	GMP synthetase, allostery, ammonia tunnelling, cross-linking mass spectrometry, integrative modelling	Guanosine 5'-monophosphate (GMP) synthetases, enzymes that catalyze the conversion of xanthosine 5'-monophosphate (XMP) to GMP, are composed of two different catalytic units, which are either two domains of a polypeptide chain or two subunits that associate to form a complex. The glutamine amidotransferase (GATase) unit hydrolyzes glutamine generating ammonia, and the ATP pyrophosphatase (ATPPase) unit catalyzes the formation of an AMP-XMP intermediate. The substrate-bound ATPPase allosterically activates GATase, and the ammonia thus generated is tunneled to the ATPPase active site where it reacts with AMP-XMP generating GMP. In ammonia channeling enzymes reported thus far, a tight complex of the two subunits is observed, while the interaction of the two subunits of Methanocaldococcus jannaschii GMP synthetase (MjGMPS) is transient with the underlying mechanism of allostery and substrate channeling largely unclear. Here, we present a mechanistic model encompassing the various steps in the catalytic cycle of MjGMPS based on biochemical experiments, crystal structure, and cross-linking mass spectrometry guided integrative modeling. pH dependence of enzyme kinetics establishes that ammonia is tunneled across the subunits with the lifetime of the complex being <=0.5 s. The crystal structure of the XMP-bound ATPPase subunit reported herein highlights the role of conformationally dynamic loops in enabling catalysis. The structure of MjGMPS derived using restraints obtained from cross-linking mass spectrometry has enabled the visualization of subunit interactions that enable allostery under catalytic conditions. We integrate the results and propose a functional mechanism for MjGMPS detailing the various steps involved in catalysis.
PXD030599	36040810	VRK1 as a synthetic lethal target in VRK2 promoter-methylated cancers of the nervous system. 	VRK1 is required in VRK2-methylated cancers of the nervous system	phosphorylation	Collateral lethality occurs when loss of a gene/protein renders cancer cells dependent on its remaining paralog. Combining genome-scale CRISPR/Cas9 loss-of-function screens with RNA sequencing in over 900 cancer cell lines, we found that cancers of nervous system lineage, including adult and pediatric gliomas and neuroblastomas, required the nuclear kinase vaccinia-related kinase 1 (VRK1) for their survival in vivo. VRK1 dependency was inversely correlated with expression of its paralog VRK2. VRK2 knockout sensitized cells to VRK1 loss, and conversely, VRK2 overexpression increased cell fitness in the setting of VRK1 loss. DNA methylation of the VRK2 promoter was associated with low VRK2 expression in human neuroblastomas and adult and pediatric gliomas. Mechanistically, depletion of VRK1 reduced barrier-to-autointegration factor phosphorylation during mitosis, resulting in DNA damage and apoptosis. Together, these studies identify VRK1 as a synthetic lethal target in VRK2 promoter-methylated adult and pediatric gliomas and neuroblastomas.
PXD029233	36041010	The drug efflux pump MDR1 promotes intrinsic and acquired resistance to PROTACs in cancer cells. 	MDR1 Drug Efflux Pump Promotes Acquired and Intrinsic Resistance to Protein Degraders in Cancer Cells	ABCB1, Cancer, Degrader, Drug Resistance, MDR1, PROTAC	Proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs) are a promising new class of drugs that selectively degrade cellular proteins of interest. PROTACs that target oncogene products are avidly being explored for cancer therapies, and several are currently in clinical trials. Drug resistance is a substantial challenge in clinical oncology, and resistance to PROTACs has been reported in several cancer cell models. Here, using proteomic analysis, we found intrinsic and acquired resistance mechanisms to PROTACs in cancer cell lines mediated by greater abundance or production of the drug efflux pump MDR1. PROTAC-resistant cells were resensitized to PROTACs by genetic ablation of ABCB1 (which encodes MDR1) or by coadministration of MDR1 inhibitors. In MDR1-overexpressing colorectal cancer cells, degraders targeting either the kinases MEK1/2 or the oncogenic mutant GTPase KRAS(G12C) synergized with the dual epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR/ErbB)/MDR1 inhibitor lapatinib. Moreover, compared with single-agent therapies, combining MEK1/2 degraders with lapatinib improved growth inhibition of MDR1-overexpressing KRAS-mutant colorectal cancer xenografts in mice. Together, our findings suggest that concurrent blockade of MDR1 will likely be required with PROTACs to achieve durable protein degradation and therapeutic response in cancer.
PXD032664	36041196	Cathepsin D Drives the Formation of Hybrid Insulin Peptides Relevant to the Pathogenesis of Type 1 Diabetes. 	Proteomics of Enriched Insulin Secretory Granules Fractionated by Size Exclusion Chromotography	beta cell, insulin secretory granule, proteases, proteins	Hybrid insulin peptides (HIPs) form in pancreatic beta-cells through the formation of peptide bonds between proinsulin fragments and other peptides. HIPs have been identified in pancreatic islets by mass spectrometry and are targeted by CD4 T cells in patients with type 1 diabetes (T1D) as well as by pathogenic CD4 T-cell clones in nonobese diabetic (NOD) mice. The mechanism of HIP formation is currently poorly understood; however, it is well established that proteases can drive the formation of new peptide bonds in a side reaction during peptide bond hydrolysis. Here, we used a proteomic strategy on enriched insulin granules and identified cathepsin D (CatD) as the primary protease driving the specific formation of HIPs targeted by disease-relevant CD4 T cells in T1D. We also established that NOD islets deficient in cathepsin L (CatL), another protease implicated in the formation of disease-relevant HIPs, contain elevated levels of HIPs, indicating a role for CatL in the proteolytic degradation of HIPs. In summary, our data suggest that CatD may be a therapeutic target in efforts to prevent or slow the autoimmune destruction of beta-cells mediated by HIP-reactive CD4 T cells in T1D.
PXD033931	36041587	Effects of Camk2b Overexpression and Underexpression on the Proteome of Rat Hippocampal Neurons. 	Rat hippocampal neurons' proteomes	Camk2b, Hippocampal neuron, Mapk3, iTRAQ	Recent studies have demonstrated that Camk2b expression is modified in neuropsychiatric illnesses and potentially affects synaptic plasticity. However, the molecular events arising from Camk2b dysregulation are not fully elucidated and need to be comprehensively explored. In the present study, we first induced over-expression and under-expression of Camk2b in cultured rat hippocampal neurons through transfection with lentivirus plasmids. Then isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ)-based quantitative proteomics followed by bioinformatics analyses were carried out to explore the impacts of Camk2b dysexpression on the proteome of the neurons. Compared with the respective controls, a total of 270 proteins in the Camk2b-overexpression group and 209 proteins in the Camk2b-underexpression group were experienced a divergence in expression. Gene ontology and pathway analyses indicated that Camk2b overexpression and under-expression respectively induced two different change profiles of protein expressions and functions, reflecting the potential differences in cellular processes and biological events. Through cross comparison, several candidate target proteins regulated directly by Camk2b were revealed. Further network and immunoblot analyses demonstrated that Mapk3 could be an important linker and Camk2b-Mapk3 might serve as a new potential pathway affecting the expression of synaptic proteins in hippocampal neurons. Collectively, the present results offer a new comprehension of the regulatory molecular mechanism of Camk2b and thereby increase our understanding of Camk2b-mediated synaptogenesis in synaptic plasticity.
PXD032931	36041628	PrkA is an ATP-dependent protease that regulates sporulation in Bacillus subtilis. 	PrkA regulates Bacillus subtilis sporulation through a Lon protease activity	ATPase, Bacillus subtilis, Lon protease, PrkA, phosphorylation, sporulation	In Bacillus subtilis, sporulation is a sequential and highly regulated process. Phosphorylation events by histidine kinases are key points in the phosphorelay that initiates sporulation, but serine/threonine protein kinases also play important auxiliary roles in this regulation. PrkA has been proposed to be a serine protein kinase expressed during the initiation of sporulation and involved in this differentiation process. Additionally, the role of PrkA in sporulation has been previously proposed to be mediated via the transition phase regulator ScoC, which in turn regulates the transcriptional factor sigma(K) and its regulon. However, the kinase activity of PrkA has not been clearly demonstrated, and neither its autophosphorylation nor phosphorylated substrates have been unambiguously established in B. subtilis. We demonstrated here that PrkA regulation of ScoC is likely indirect. Following bioinformatic homology searches, we revealed sequence similarities of PrkA with the ATPases associated with diverse cellular activities ATP-dependent Lon protease family. Here, we showed that PrkA is indeed able to hydrolyze alpha-casein, an exogenous substrate of Lon proteases, in an ATP-dependent manner. We also showed that this ATP-dependent protease activity is essential for PrkA function in sporulation since mutation in the Walker A motif leads to a sporulation defect. Furthermore, we found that PrkA protease activity is tightly regulated by phosphorylation events involving one of the Ser/Thr protein kinases of B. subtilis, PrkC. Taken together, our results clarify the key role of PrkA in the complex process of B. subtilis sporulation.
PXD035576	36041630	Systematic mutagenesis of TFIIH subunit p52/Tfb2 identifies residues required for XPB/Ssl2 subunit function and genetic interactions with TFB6. 	Systematic mutagenesis identifies p52/Tfb2 residues required for XPB/Ssl2 function within TFIIH and genetic interactions with TFB6	GTF2H4, RNA polymerase II transcription, Tfb6, XPB/Ssl2, function, general transcription factor TFIIH, integrity, mutagenesis, p52/Tfb2, structure, transcription start site	TFIIH is an evolutionarily conserved complex that plays central roles in both RNA polymerase II (pol II) transcription and DNA repair. As an integral component of the pol II preinitiation complex, TFIIH regulates pol II enzyme activity in numerous ways. The TFIIH subunit XPB/Ssl2 is an ATP-dependent DNA translocase that stimulates promoter opening prior to transcription initiation. Crosslinking-mass spectrometry and cryo-EM results have shown a conserved interaction network involving XPB/Ssl2 and the C-terminal Hub region of the TFIIH p52/Tfb2 subunit, but the functional significance of specific residues is unclear. Here, we systematically mutagenized the HubA region of Tfb2 and screened for growth phenotypes in a TFB6 deletion background in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We identified six lethal and 12 conditional mutants. Slow growth phenotypes of all but three conditional mutants were relieved in the presence of TFB6, thus identifying a functional interaction between Tfb2 HubA mutants and Tfb6, a protein that dissociates Ssl2 from TFIIH. Our biochemical analysis of Tfb2 mutants with severe growth phenotypes revealed defects in Ssl2 association, with similar results in human cells. Further characterization of these tfb2 mutant cells revealed defects in GAL gene induction, and reduced occupancy of TFIIH and pol II at GAL gene promoters, suggesting that functionally competent TFIIH is required for proper pol II recruitment to preinitiation complexes in vivo. Consistent with recent structural models of TFIIH, our results identify key residues in the p52/Tfb2 HubA domain that are required for stable incorporation of XPB/Ssl2 into TFIIH and for pol II transcription.
PXD027044	36044386	Impact of mesenchymal stromal cell-derived vesicular cargo on B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia progression. 	proteomic analysis of leukocytes upon Plekhm1-KO	Orbitrap Lumos, SPS-MS3, TMT, mesenchymal stromal cells	Leukemia cells reciprocally interact with their surrounding bone marrow microenvironment (BMM), rendering it hospitable to leukemia cell survival, for instance through the release of small extracellular vesicles (sEVs). In contrast, we show here that BMM deficiency of pleckstrin homology domain family M member 1 (PLEKHM1), which serves as a hub between fusion and secretion of intracellular vesicles and is important for vesicular secretion in osteoclasts, accelerates murine BCR-ABL1+ B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) via regulation of the cargo of sEVs released by BMM-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs). PLEKHM1-deficient MSCs and their sEVs carry increased amounts of syntenin and syndecan-1, resulting in a more immature B-cell phenotype and an increased number/function of leukemia-initiating cells (LICs) via focal adhesion kinase and AKT signaling in B-ALL cells. Ex vivo pretreatment of LICs with sEVs derived from PLEKHM1-deficient MSCs led to a strong trend toward acceleration of murine and human BCR-ABL1+ B-ALL. In turn, inflammatory mediators such as recombinant or B-ALL cell-derived tumor necrosis factor alpha or interleukin-1beta condition murine and human MSCs in vitro, decreasing PLEKHM1, while increasing syntenin and syndecan-1 in MSCs, thereby perpetuating the sEV-associated circuit. Consistently, human trephine biopsies of patients with B-ALL showed a reduced percentage of PLEKHM1+ MSCs. In summary, our data reveal an important role of BMM-derived sEVs for driving specifically BCR-ABL1+ B-ALL, possibly contributing to its worse prognosis compared with BCR-ABL1- B-ALL, and suggest that secretion of inflammatory cytokines by cancer cells in general may similarly modulate the tumor microenvironment.
PXD032670	36044549	Amelioration of pathologic alpha-synuclein-induced Parkinson's disease by irisin. 	Amelioration of Pathologic ï¡-Synuclein-Induced Parkinson's Disease by Irisin	Irisin, Neurodegeneration, Parkinson's disease, alpha-synuclein	Physical activity provides clinical benefit in Parkinson's disease (PD). Irisin is an exercise-induced polypeptide secreted by skeletal muscle that crosses the blood-brain barrier and mediates certain effects of exercise. Here, we show that irisin prevents pathologic alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn)-induced neurodegeneration in the alpha-syn preformed fibril (PFF) mouse model of sporadic PD. Intravenous delivery of irisin via viral vectors following the stereotaxic intrastriatal injection of alpha-syn PFF cause a reduction in the formation of pathologic alpha-syn and prevented the loss of dopamine neurons and lowering of striatal dopamine. Irisin also substantially reduced the alpha-syn PFF-induced motor deficits as assessed behaviorally by the pole and grip strength test. Recombinant sustained irisin treatment of primary cortical neurons attenuated alpha-syn PFF toxicity by reducing the formation of phosphorylated serine 129 of alpha-syn and neuronal cell death. Tandem mass spectrometry and biochemical analysis revealed that irisin reduced pathologic alpha-syn by enhancing endolysosomal degradation of pathologic alpha-syn. Our findings highlight the potential for therapeutic disease modification of irisin in PD.
PXD022608	36044572	Operation of a TCA cycle subnetwork in the mammalian nucleus. 	Operation of a TCA cycle subnetwork in the mammalian nucleus	Metabolic Pathways, Nucleus, Proximity-biotinylation Mass Spectrometry, Stable Isotope Metabolomics Study	Nucleic acid and histone modifications critically depend on the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle for substrates and cofactors. Although a few TCA cycle enzymes have been reported in the nucleus, the corresponding pathways are considered to operate in mitochondria. Here, we show that a part of the TCA cycle is operational also in the nucleus. Using (13)C-tracer analysis, we identified activity of glutamine-to-fumarate, citrate-to-succinate, and glutamine-to-aspartate routes in the nuclei of HeLa cells. Proximity labeling mass spectrometry revealed a spatial vicinity of the involved enzymes with core nuclear proteins. We further show nuclear localization of aconitase 2 and 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase in mouse embryonic stem cells. Nuclear localization of the latter enzyme, which produces succinyl-CoA, changed from pluripotency to a differentiated state with accompanying changes in the nuclear protein succinylation. Together, our results demonstrate operation of an extended metabolic pathway in the nucleus, warranting a revision of the canonical view on metabolic compartmentalization.
PXD030451	36044577	Phosphorylation of FAM134C by CK2 controls starvation-induced ER-phagy. 	An mTORC1-CK2 axis controls starvation induced ER-phagy via FAM134C	CK2, ER-phagy, FAM134C, autophagy, mTORC1, rat	Selective degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) via autophagy (ER-phagy) is initiated by ER-phagy receptors, which facilitate the incorporation of ER fragments into autophagosomes. FAM134 reticulon family proteins (FAM134A, FAM134B, and FAM134C) are ER-phagy receptors with structural similarities and nonredundant functions. Whether they respond differentially to the stimulation of ER-phagy is unknown. Here, we describe an activation mechanism unique to FAM134C during starvation. In fed conditions, FAM134C is phosphorylated by casein kinase 2 (CK2) at critical residues flanking the LIR domain. Phosphorylation of these residues negatively affects binding affinity to the autophagy proteins LC3. During starvation, mTORC1 inhibition limits FAM134C phosphorylation by CK2, hence promoting receptor activation and ER-phagy. Using a novel tool to study ER-phagy in vivo and FAM134C knockout mice, we demonstrated the physiological relevance of FAM134C phosphorylation during starvation-induced ER-phagy in liver lipid metabolism. These data provide a mechanistic insight into ER-phagy regulation and an example of autophagy selectivity during starvation.
PXD033574	36044728	Addressing the Protease Bias in Quantitative Proteomics. 	Addressing the Protease Bias in Quantitative Proteomics	Absolute quantification, Multiple proteases, Plasma proteomics, SRM, Targeted proteomics	Protein quantification strategies using multiple proteases have been shown to deliver poor interprotease accuracy in label-free mass spectrometry experiments. By utilizing six different proteases with different cleavage sites, this study explores the protease bias and its effect on accuracy and precision by using recombinant protein standards. We established 557 SRM assays, using a recombinant protein standard resource, toward 10 proteins in human plasma and determined their concentration with multiple proteases. The quantified peptides of these plasma proteins spanned 3 orders of magnitude (0.02-70 muM). In total, 60 peptides were used for absolute quantification and the majority of the peptides showed high robustness. The retained reproducibility was achieved by quantifying plasma proteins using spiked stable isotope standard recombinant proteins in a targeted proteomics workflow.
PXD034161	36044854	RBM45 is an m(6)A-binding protein that affects neuronal differentiation and the splicing of a subset of mRNAs. 	RNA pulldown-MS, Dlg4 RNA in mHippoE-2 cells	RNA, m6A, pulldown	N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) is deposited co-transcriptionally on thousands of cellular mRNAs and plays important roles in mRNA processing and cellular function. m(6)A is particularly abundant within the brain and is critical for neurodevelopment. However, the mechanisms through which m(6)A contributes to brain development are incompletely understood. RBM45 acts as an m(6)A-binding protein that is highly expressed during neurodevelopment. We find that RBM45 binds to thousands of cellular RNAs, predominantly within intronic regions. Rbm45 depletion disrupts the constitutive splicing of a subset of target pre-mRNAs, leading to altered mRNA and protein levels through both m(6)A-dependent and m(6)A-independent mechanisms. Finally, we find that RBM45 is necessary for neuroblastoma cell differentiation and that its depletion impacts the expression of genes involved in several neurodevelopmental signaling pathways. Altogether, our findings show a role for RBM45 in controlling mRNA processing and neuronal differentiation, mediated in part by the recognition of methylated RNA.
PXD024976	36045295	A microbial supply chain for production of the anti-cancer drug vinblastine. 	A microbial supply chain for production of anti-cancer drug vinblastine	Metabolic engineering, Synthetic biology, Vinblastine	Monoterpene indole alkaloids (MIAs) are a diverse family of complex plant secondary metabolites with many medicinal properties, including the essential anti-cancer therapeutics vinblastine and vincristine(1). As MIAs are difficult to chemically synthesize, the world's supply chain for vinblastine relies on low-yielding extraction and purification of the precursors vindoline and catharanthine from the plant Catharanthus roseus, which is then followed by simple in vitro chemical coupling and reduction to form vinblastine at an industrial scale(2,3). Here, we demonstrate the de novo microbial biosynthesis of vindoline and catharanthine using a highly engineered yeast, and in vitro chemical coupling to vinblastine. The study showcases a very long biosynthetic pathway refactored into a microbial cell factory, including 30 enzymatic steps beyond the yeast native metabolites geranyl pyrophosphate and tryptophan to catharanthine and vindoline. In total, 56 genetic edits were performed, including expression of 34 heterologous genes from plants, as well as deletions, knock-downs and overexpression of ten yeast genes to improve precursor supplies towards de novo production of catharanthine and vindoline, from which semisynthesis to vinblastine occurs. As the vinblastine pathway is one of the longest MIA biosynthetic pathways, this study positions yeast as a scalable platform to produce more than 3,000 natural MIAs and a virtually infinite number of new-to-nature analogues.
PXD034529	36048166	Organophosphorus Pesticides Promote Protein Cross-Linking. 	Organophosphorus pesticides catalyze protein crosslinking	MAP-rich tubulin, Protein Prospector, chlorpyrifos oxon, crosslinks, isopeptide	Exposure to organophosphorus pesticides (OP) can have chronic adverse effects that are independent of inhibition of acetylcholinesterase, the classic target for acute OP toxicity. In pure proteins, the organophosphorus pesticide chlorpyrifos oxon induces a cross-link between lysine and glutamate (or aspartate) with loss of water. Tubulin is particularly sensitive to OP-induced cross-linking. Our goal was to explore OP-induced cross-linking in a complex protein sample, MAP-rich tubulin from Sus scrofa and to test 8 OP for their capacity to promote isopeptide cross-linking. We treated 100 mug of MAP-rich tubulin with 100 muM chlorpyrifos, chlorpyrifos oxon, methamidophos, paraoxon, diazinon, diazoxon, monocrotophos, or dichlorvos. Each sample was separated using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and stained with Coomassie blue. Five gel slices (at about 30, 50, 150, and 300 kDa, and the top of the separating gel) were removed from the lanes for each of the eight OP samples and from untreated control lanes. These gel slices were subjected to in-gel trypsin digestion. MSMS fragmentation spectra of the tryptic peptides were examined for isopeptide cross-links. Sixteen spectra yielded convincing evidence for isopeptide cross-linked peptides. Ten were from the chlorpyrifos oxon reaction, 1 from dichlorvos, 1 from paraoxon, 1 from diazinon, and 3 from diazoxon. It was concluded that catalysis of protein cross-linking is a general property of organophosphorus pesticides and pesticide metabolites. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD034529.
PXD056639	36049085	Chemoproteomic Profiling Reveals the Mechanism of Bile Acid Tolerance in Bacteria. 	Chemoproteomic profiling reveals the mechanism of bile acid tolerance in pathogens	Bile acids, Chemoproteomics	Bile acids (BAs) are a class of endogenous metabolites with important functions. As amphipathic molecules, BAs have strong antibacterial effects, preventing overgrowth of the gut microbiota and defending the invasion of pathogens. However, some disease-causing pathogens can survive the BA stress and knowledge is limited about how they develop BA tolerance. In this work, we applied a quantitative chemoproteomic strategy to profile BA-interacting proteins in bacteria, aiming to discover the sensing pathway of BAs. Using a clickable and photo-affinity BA probe with quantitative mass spectrometry, we identified a list of histidine kinases (HKs) of the two-component systems (TCS) in bacteria as the novel binding targets of BA. Genetic screening revealed that knocking out one specific HK, EnvZ, renders bacteria with significant sensitivity to BA. Further biochemical and genetic experiments demonstrated that BA binds to a specific pocket in EnvZ and activates a downstream signaling pathway to help efflux of BA from bacteria, resulting in BA tolerance. Collectively, our data revealed that EnvZ is a novel sensor of BA in bacteria and its associated TCS signaling pathway plays a critical role in mediating bacterial BA tolerance, which opens new opportunities to combat BA-tolerating pathogens.
PXD035353	36049481	The TRESLIN-MTBP complex couples completion of DNA replication with S/G2 transition. 	The TRESLIN-MTBP complex couples completion of DNA replication with S/G2 transition	ATR, DNA replication, cell cycle	It has been proposed that ATR kinase senses the completion of DNA replication to initiate the S/G2 transition. In contrast to this model, we show here that the TRESLIN-MTBP complex prevents a premature entry into G2 from early S-phase independently of ATR/CHK1 kinases. TRESLIN-MTBP acts transiently at pre-replication complexes (preRCs) to initiate origin firing and is released after the subsequent recruitment of CDC45. This dynamic behavior of TRESLIN-MTBP implements a monitoring system that checks the activation of replication forks and senses the rate of origin firing to prevent the entry into G2. This system detects the decline in the number of origins of replication that naturally occurs in very late S, which is the signature that cells use to determine the completion of DNA replication and permit the S/G2 transition. Our work introduces TRESLIN-MTBP as a key player in cell-cycle control independent of canonical checkpoints.
PXD034850	36049519	A previously uncharacterized O-glycopeptidase from Akkermansia muciniphila requires the Tn-antigen for cleavage of the peptide bond. 	HDX-MS Analysis of the protein ALT51	ALT51, HDX-MS	Akkermansia muciniphila is key member of the human gut microbiota that impacts many features of host health. A major characteristic of this bacterium is its interaction with host mucin, which is abundant in the gut environment, and its ability to metabolize mucin as a nutrient source. The machinery deployed by A. muciniphila to enable this interaction appears to be extensive and sophisticated, yet it is incompletely defined. The uncharacterized protein AMUC_1438 is encoded by a gene that was previously shown to be upregulated when the bacterium is grown on mucin. This uncharacterized protein has features suggestive of carbohydrate-recognition and peptidase activity, which led us to hypothesize that it has a role in mucin depolymerization. Here, we provide structural and functional support for the assignment of AMUC_1438 as a unique O-glycopeptidase with mucin-degrading capacity. O-glycopeptidase enzymes recognize glycans but hydrolyze the peptide backbone and are common in host-adapted microbes that colonize or invade mucus layers. Structural, kinetic, and mutagenic analyses point to a metzincin metalloprotease catalytic motif but with an active site that specifically recognizes a GalNAc residue alpha-linked to serine or threonine (i.e., the Tn-antigen). The enzyme catalyzes hydrolysis of the bond immediately N-terminal to the glycosylated residue. Additional modeling analyses suggest the presence of a carbohydrate-binding module that may assist in substrate recognition. We anticipate that these results will be fundamental to a wider understanding of the O-glycopeptidase class of enzymes and how they may contribute to host adaptation.
PXD035340	36050391	Spatially variant immune infiltration scoring in human cancer tissues. 	Spatially variant immune infiltration scoring in human cancer tissues	Lung Cancer IMC	The Immunoscore is a method to quantify the immune cell infiltration within cancers to predict the disease prognosis. Previous immune profiling approaches relied on limited immune markers to establish patients' tumor immunity. However, immune cells exhibit a higher-level complexity that is typically not obtained by the conventional immunohistochemistry methods. Herein, we present a spatially variant immune infiltration score, termed as SpatialVizScore, to quantify immune cells infiltration within lung tumor samples using multiplex protein imaging data. Imaging mass cytometry (IMC) was used to target 26 markers in tumors to identify stromal, immune, and cancer cell states within 26 human tissues from lung cancer patients. Unsupervised clustering methods dissected the spatial infiltration of cells in tissue using the high-dimensional analysis of 16 immune markers and other cancer and stroma enriched labels to profile alterations in the tumors' immune infiltration patterns. Spatially resolved maps of distinct tumors determined the spatial proximity and neighborhoods of immune-cancer cell pairs. These SpatialVizScore maps provided a ranking of patients' tumors consisting of immune inflamed, immune suppressed, and immune cold states, demonstrating the tumor's immune continuum assigned to three distinct infiltration score ranges. Several inflammatory and suppressive immune markers were used to establish the cell-based scoring schemes at the single-cell and pixel-level, depicting the cellular spectra in diverse lung tissues. Thus, SpatialVizScore is an emerging quantitative method to deeply study tumor immunology in cancer tissues.
PXD031632	36050501	The DNA-damage kinase ATR activates the FANCD2-FANCI clamp by priming it for ubiquitination. 	Crosslinking/mass spectrometry analysis of Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway FANCD2-FANCI complexes	FANCI phosphorylation, Fanconi anemia (FA) pathway, crosslinking/mass spectrometry	DNA interstrand cross-links are tumor-inducing lesions that block DNA replication and transcription. When cross-links are detected at stalled replication forks, ATR kinase phosphorylates FANCI, which stimulates monoubiquitination of the FANCD2-FANCI clamp by the Fanconi anemia core complex. Monoubiquitinated FANCD2-FANCI is locked onto DNA and recruits nucleases that mediate DNA repair. However, it remains unclear how phosphorylation activates this pathway. Here, we report structures of FANCD2-FANCI complexes containing phosphomimetic FANCI. We observe that, unlike wild-type FANCD2-FANCI, the phosphomimetic complex closes around DNA, independent of the Fanconi anemia core complex. The phosphomimetic mutations do not substantially alter DNA binding but instead destabilize the open state of FANCD2-FANCI and alter its conformational dynamics. Overall, our results demonstrate that phosphorylation primes the FANCD2-FANCI clamp for ubiquitination, showing how multiple posttranslational modifications are coordinated to control DNA repair.
PXD035707	36050837	FRIENDLY (FMT) is an RNA binding protein associated with cytosolic ribosomes at the mitochondrial surface. 	FRIENDLY (FMT) is an RNA binding protein associated with cytosolic ribosomes at the mitochondrial surface	co-translational import, localized translation, mRNA trafficking	The spatial organization of protein synthesis in the eukaryotic cell is essential for maintaining the integrity of the proteome and the functioning of the cell. Translation on free polysomes or on ribosomes associated with the endoplasmic reticulum has been studied for a long time. More recent data have revealed selective translation of mRNAs in other compartments, in particular at the surface of mitochondria. Although these processes have been described in many organisms, particularky in plants, the mRNA targeting and localized translation mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, the Arabidopsis thaliana Friendly (FMT) protein is shown to be a cytosolic RNA binding protein that associates with cytosolic ribosomes at the surface of mitochondria. FMT knockout delays seedling development and causes mitochondrial clustering. The mutation also disrupts the mitochondrial proteome, as well as the localization of nuclear transcripts encoding mitochondrial proteins at the surface of mitochondria. These data indicate that FMT participates in the localization of mRNAs and their translation at the surface of mitochondria.
PXD034928	36054072	Synthesis, insecticidal activity, and mode of action of novel imidazopyridine mesoionic derivatives containing an amido group. 	Synthesis, Insecticidal Activities and Mode of Action of Novel Imidazopyridine Mesoionic Derivatives Containing an Amido group	Insecticidal, Mode of action	BACKGROUND: In our previous work, we applied a new synthetic strategy to design and synthesize a series of imidazopyridine mesoionic derivatives with an ester group. The newly synthesized compounds had excellent insecticidal activity against aphids; however, insecticidal activity against planthoppers was less than satisfactory. In the present study, we designed and synthesized a series of novel imidazopyridine mesoionic compounds, containing an amido group, and these compounds were found to have improved insecticidal activity against planthoppers. RESULTS: The bioassay results demonstrated that most of the target compounds had moderate-to-good insecticidal activity against Sogatella furcifera, and some exhibited good-to-excellent insecticidal activity against Aphis craccivora. Among them, compound C6 had the highest insecticidal activity against S. furcifera and A. craccivora, with LC50 values of 10.5 and 2.09 mug mL(-1) , respectively. Proteomic results suggested that the differentially expressed proteins mainly were enriched in the nervous system-related pathways after compound C6 treatment. Enzymatic assay results showed that compound C6 and triflumezopyrim had a certain inhibitory effect on acetylcholinesterase. Molecular docking and real-time quantitative PCR results indicated that compound C6 not only may act on the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, but also may interact with the alpha4 and beta1 subunits of this receptor. CONCLUSION: The results reported here contribute to the development of new mesoionic insecticides and further our understanding of the mode-of-action of imidazopyridine mesoionic derivatives. (c) 2022 Society of Chemical Industry.
PXD033733	36055998	Mapping autophagosome contents identifies interleukin-7 receptor-alpha as a key cargo modulating CD4+ T cell proliferation. 	Mapping of the autophagosomal degradome identifies IL-7Ralpha as key 1 cargo in proliferating CD4+ T-cells	IL-7Ra autophagosome degradome	CD4+ T cells are pivotal cells playing roles in the orchestration of humoral and cytotoxic immune responses. It is known that CD4+ T cell proliferation relies on autophagy, but identification of the autophagosomal cargo involved is missing. Here we create a transgenic mouse model, to enable direct mapping of the proteinaceous content of autophagosomes in primary cells by LC3 proximity labelling. Interleukin-7 receptor-alpha, a cytokine receptor mostly found in naive and memory T cells, is reproducibly detected in autophagosomes of activated CD4+ T cells. Consistently, CD4+ T cells lacking autophagy show increased interleukin-7 receptor-alpha surface expression, while no defect in internalisation is observed. Mechanistically, excessive surface interleukin-7 receptor-alpha sequestrates the common gamma chain, impairing the interleukin-2 receptor assembly and downstream signalling crucial for T cell proliferation. This study shows that key autophagy substrates can be reliably identified in this mouse model and help mechanistically unravel autophagy's contribution to healthy physiology and disease.
PXD029532	36056732	Comparative maternal protein profiling of mouse biparental and uniparental embryos. 	Comparative maternal protein profiling of mouse biparental and uniparental embryos	embryo, maternal genome, parthenogenesis, pre-implantation development	BACKGROUND: Maternal proteins have important roles during early embryonic development. However, our understanding of maternal proteins is still very limited. The integrated analysis of mouse uniparental (parthenogenetic) and biparental (fertilized) embryos at the protein level creates a protein expression landscape that can be used to explore preimplantation mouse development. RESULTS: Using label-free quantitative mass spectrometry (MS) analysis, we report on the maternal proteome of mouse parthenogenetic embryos at pronucleus, 2-cell, 4-cell, 8-cell, morula, and blastocyst stages and highlight dynamic changes in protein expression. In addition, comparison of proteomic profiles of parthenogenotes and fertilized embryos highlights the different fates of maternal proteins. Enrichment analysis uncovered a set of maternal proteins that are strongly correlated with the subcortical maternal complex, and we report that in parthenogenotes, some of these maternal proteins escape the fate of protein degradation. Moreover, we identified a new maternal factor-Fbxw24, and highlight its importance in early embryonic development. We report that Fbxw24 interacts with Ddb1-Cul4b and may regulate maternal protein degradation in mouse. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides an invaluable resource for mechanistic analysis of maternal proteins and highlights the role of the novel maternal factor Fbw24 in regulating maternal protein degradation during preimplantation embryo development.
PXD034168	36057605	Suppression of ACE2 SUMOylation protects against SARS-CoV-2 infection through TOLLIP-mediated selective autophagy. 	LC-MSMS of HEK 293T cells transfected with Flag-EV or Flag-ACE2	ACE2, HEK 293T	In addition to investigating the virology of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), discovering the host-virus dependencies are essential to identify and design effective antiviral therapy strategy. Here, we report that the SARS-CoV-2 entry receptor, ACE2, conjugates with small ubiquitin-like modifier 3 (SUMO3) and provide evidence indicating that prevention of ACE2 SUMOylation can block SARS-CoV-2 infection. E3 SUMO ligase PIAS4 prompts the SUMOylation and stabilization of ACE2, whereas deSUMOylation enzyme SENP3 reverses this process. Conjugation of SUMO3 with ACE2 at lysine (K) 187 hampers the K48-linked ubiquitination of ACE2, thus suppressing its subsequent cargo receptor TOLLIP-dependent autophagic degradation. TOLLIP deficiency results in the stabilization of ACE2 and elevated SARS-CoV-2 infection. In conclusion, our findings suggest selective autophagic degradation of ACE2 orchestrated by SUMOylation and ubiquitination as a potential way to combat SARS-CoV-2 infection.
PXD028714	36057633	Spermidine-mediated hypusination of translation factor EIF5A improves mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation and prevents non-alcoholic steatohepatitis progression. 	EIF5A hypusinaion in hepatic cells	hepatic cells	Spermidine is a natural polyamine that has health benefits and extends life span in several species. Deoxyhypusine synthase (DHPS) and deoxyhypusine hydroxylase (DOHH) are key enzymes that utilize spermidine to catalyze the post-translational hypusination of the translation factor EIF5A (EIF5A(H)). Here, we have found that hepatic DOHH mRNA expression is decreased in patients and mice with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), and hepatic cells treated with fatty acids. The mouse and cell culture models of NASH have concomitant decreases in Eif5a(H) and mitochondrial protein synthesis which leads to lower mitochondrial activity and fatty acid beta-oxidation. Spermidine treatment restores EIF5A(H), partially restores protein synthesis and mitochondrial function in NASH, and prevents NASH progression in vivo. Thus, the disrupted DHPS-DOHH-EIF5A(H) pathway during NASH represents a therapeutic target to increase hepatic protein synthesis and mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation (FAO) and prevent NASH progression.
PXD030432	36058541	Proteomics profiling of ertapenem challenged major porin deficient carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae. 	Proteomics profiling of major porin deficient Klebsiella pneumoniae in response to ertapenem treatment	Klebsiella pneumoniae, ertapenem	Carbapenem-resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae (CRKP) is an urgent threat to human health. Major outer membrane proteins (OMPs) porin mutation is one important resistance mechanism of CRKP, and may also affect the inhibition activity of beta-lactam and beta-lactamase inhibitor combinations. The ertapenem-resistant K. pneumoniae strain 2018B120 with major porin mutations was isolated from a clinical patient. Genomic and time-series proteomic analyses were conducted to retrieve the ertapenem-challenged response of 2018B120. The abundance changing of proteins from PTS systems,  ABC transporters, the autoinducer 2 (AI-2) quorum sensing system, and antioxidant systems can be observed. Overexpression of alternative porins was also noticed to balance major porins' defection. These findings added a detailed regulation network in bacterial resistance mechanisms and gave new insights into bypass adaptation mechanisms the porin deficient bacteria adopted under carbapenem antibiotics pressure. SIGNIFICANCE: Outer membrane porins deficiency is an important mechanism of carbapenem resistance in K. pneumoniae. Comprehensive genomic and proteomic profiling of an ertapenem-resistant K. pneumoniae strain 2018B120 gives a detailed systematic regulation network in bacterial resistance mechanisms. Overexpression of alternative porins to balance major porins' defection was noticed, giving new insights into bypass adaptation mechanisms of porin deficient bacteria.
PXD027480	36059274	The OTUD6B-LIN28B-MYC axis determines the proliferative state in multiple myeloma. 	The OTUD6B-LIN28B-MYC axis determines cell cycle progression in multiple myeloma	BioID, FLAG-IP, OTUD6B, Orbitrap	Deubiquitylases (DUBs) are therapeutically amenable components of the ubiquitin machinery that stabilize substrate proteins. Their inhibition can destabilize oncoproteins that may otherwise be undruggable. Here, we screened for DUB vulnerabilities in multiple myeloma, an incurable malignancy with dependency on the ubiquitin proteasome system and identified OTUD6B as an oncogene that drives the G1/S-transition. LIN28B, a suppressor of microRNA biogenesis, is specified as a bona fide cell cycle-specific substrate of OTUD6B. Stabilization of LIN28B drives MYC expression at G1/S, which in turn allows for rapid S-phase entry. Silencing OTUD6B or LIN28B inhibits multiple myeloma outgrowth in vivo and high OTUD6B expression evolves in patients that progress to symptomatic multiple myeloma and results in an adverse outcome of the disease. Thus, we link proteolytic ubiquitylation with post-transcriptional regulation and nominate OTUD6B as a potential mediator of the MGUS-multiple myeloma transition, a central regulator of MYC, and an actionable vulnerability in multiple myeloma and other tumors with an activated OTUD6B-LIN28B axis.
PXD034597	36059712	Decellularization of xenografted tumors provides cell-specific in vitro 3D environment. 	Xenografted Tumor decellularization provides cell-specific in vitro 3D environment	Breast cancer, Tumor Xenograft, decellularization, in vitro 3D model	In vitro cell culture studies are common in the cancer research field, and reliable biomimetic 3D models are needed to ensure physiological relevance. In this manuscript, we hypothesized that decellularized xenograft tumors can serve as an optimal 3D substrate to generate a top-down approach for in vitro tumor modeling. Multiple tumor cell lines were xenografted and the formed solid tumors were recovered for their decellularization by several techniques and further characterization by histology and proteomics techniques. Selected decellularized tumor xenograft samples were seeded with the HCC1806 human triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) basal-like subtype cell line, and cell behavior was compared among them and with other control 2D and 3D cell culture methods. A soft treatment using Freeze-EDTA-DNAse allows proper decellularization of xenografted tumor samples. Interestingly, proteomic data show that samples decellularized from TNBC basal-like subtype xenograft models had different extracellular matrix (ECM) compositions compared to the rest of the xenograft tumors tested. The in vitro recellularization of decellularized ECM (dECM) yields tumor-type-specific cell behavior in the TNBC context. Data show that dECM derived from xenograft tumors is a feasible substrate for reseeding purposes, thereby promoting tumor-type-specific cell behavior. These data serve as a proof-of-concept for further potential generation of patient-specific in vitro research models.
PXD029808	36060065	Convergent cerebrospinal fluid proteomes and metabolic ontologies in humans and animal models of Rett syndrome. 	TMT mass spectrometry analysis of wild type and Mecp2 null rat CSF of animals aged 23-26 days	CSF, Rat, TMT	MECP2 loss-of-function mutations cause Rett syndrome, a neurodevelopmental disorder resulting from a disrupted brain transcriptome. How these transcriptional defects are decoded into a disease proteome remains unknown. We studied the proteome of Rett cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) to identify consensus Rett proteome and ontologies shared across three species. Rett CSF proteomes enriched proteins annotated to HDL lipoproteins, complement, mitochondria, citrate/pyruvate metabolism, synapse compartments, and the neurosecretory protein VGF. We used shared Rett ontologies to select analytes for orthogonal quantification and functional validation. VGF and ontologically selected CSF proteins had genotypic discriminatory capacity as determined by receiver operating characteristic analysis in Mecp2 -/y and Mecp2 -/+ . Differentially expressed CSF proteins distinguished Rett from a related neurodevelopmental disorder, CDKL5 deficiency disorder. We propose that Mecp2 mutant CSF proteomes and ontologies inform putative mechanisms and biomarkers of disease. We suggest that Rett syndrome results from synapse and metabolism dysfunction.
PXD032386	36061670	Reliable Approach for Pure Yeast Cell Wall Protein Isolation from Saccharomyces cerevisiae Yeast Cells. 	A reliable approach for pure Yeast Cell Wall protein isolation from Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast cells	Cell Wall Proteins (CWPs), Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Yeast Cell Wall (YCW), bottom-up proteomics, label-free quantification, mannoproteins (MNPs), ultracentrifugation	Saccharomyces cerevisiae yeast is a fungus presenting a peripheral organelle called the cell wall. The cell wall protects the yeast cell from stress and provides means for communication with the surrounding environment. It has a complex molecular structure, composed of an internal part of cross-linked polysaccharides and an external part of mannoproteins. These latter are very interesting owing to their functional properties, dependent on their molecular features with massive mannosylations. Therefore, the molecular characterization of mannoproteins is a must relying on the optimal isolation and preparation of the cell wall fraction. Multiple methods are well reported for yeast cell wall isolation. The most applied one consists of yeast cell lysis by mechanical disruption. However, applying this classical approach to S288C yeast cells showed considerable contamination with noncell wall proteins, mainly comprising mitochondrial proteins. Herein, we tried to further purify the yeast cell wall preparation by two means: ultracentrifugation and Triton X-100 addition. While the first strategy showed limited outcomes in mitochondrial protein removal, the second strategy showed optimal results when Triton X-100 was added at 5%, allowing the identification of more mannoproteins and significantly enriching their amounts. This promising method could be reliably implemented on the lab scale for identification of mannoproteins and molecular characterization and industrial processes for "pure" cell wall isolation.
PXD034186	36061859	Understanding global changes of the mouse brain proteome after vaginal infection with HSV-2 using a label-free shotgun approach. 	Understanding Global Changes of the Mouse Brain Proteome after HSV-2 Infection Using a Label-free Shotgun Approach	Brain, LC-MS	Herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) is a common human pathogen that establishes lifelong latency in neurons of the nervous system. The number of severe central nervous system infections caused by the virus has increased recently. However, the pathogenesis of HSV-2 infection in the nervous system is not fully understood. Here, we demonstrated global proteomic changes in the brain tissue in BALB/c mice vaginally infected with HSV-2. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD034186. A total of 249 differentially expressed proteins were identified in infected brain tissue. The GO and KEGG enrichment analysis of these proteins indicated that they were mainly involved in the regulation of synapse formation and synaptic excitability. In addition, genes affecting autophagy, the development of other neurodegenerative diseases, and signaling pathways relevant to other neurologic diseases were identified. Additional experiments, comparing the brain tissue of asymptomatic and symptomatic mice showed a differential expression of proteins involved in synapse formation and synaptic transmission. Others were involved in autophagy, addiction, and signaling pathways of other neurologic diseases. These results suggest that changes in synaptic structure and function, as well as autophagy, may be related to the development of neurologic abnormalities that follow HSV-2 infection. We also identified a protein GluN2A encoded by Grin2a was continuously expressed at high levels after infection. We propose that GluN2A may be a key molecule in the pathogenesis of HSV-2-induced neurologic diseases.
PXD031034	36063033	Combining confocal microscopy, dSTORM, and mass spectroscopy to unveil the evolution of the protein corona associated with nanostructured lipid carriers during blood-brain barrier crossing. 	Combining confocal microscopy, dSTORM, and mass spectroscopy to unveil the evolution of the protein corona associated with nanostructured lipid nanocarriers during blood-brain barrier crossing	Protein corona, blood-brain barrier, dSTORM, lipid nanoparticles, magnetic nanoparticles, mass spectroscopy., super resolution microscopy	Upon coming into contact with the biological environment, nanostructures are immediately covered by biomolecules, particularly by proteins forming the so-called "protein corona" (PC). The phenomenon of PC formation has gained great attention in recent years due to its implication in the use of nanostructures in biomedicine. In fact, it has been shown that the formation of the PC can impact the performance of nanostructures by reducing their stability, causing aggregation, increasing their toxicity, and providing unexpected and undesired nanostructure-cell interactions. In this work, we decided to study for the first time the formation and the evolution of PC on the surface of nanostructured lipid carriers loaded with superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles, before and after the crossing of an in vitro model of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Combining confocal microscopy, direct STochastic Optical Reconstruction Microscopy (dSTORM), and proteomic analysis, we were able to carry out a complete analysis of the PC formation and evolution. In particular, we highlighted that PC formation is a fast process, being formed around particles even after just 1 min of exposure to fetal bovine serum. Moreover, PC formed around particles is extremely heterogeneous: while some particles have no associated PC at all, others are completely covered by proteins. Lastly, the interaction with an in vitro BBB model strongly affects the PC composition: in particular, a large amount of the proteins forming the initial PC is lost after the BBB passage and they are partially replaced by new proteins derived from both the brain endothelial cells and the cell culture medium. Altogether, the obtained data could potentially provide new insights into the design and fabrication of lipid nanostructures for the treatment of central nervous system disorders.
PXD033711	36066113	TAG-TMTpro, a Hyperplexing Quantitative Approach for High-Throughput Proteomic Studies. 	TAG-TMTpro, a hyperplexing quantitative approach for high-throughput proteomic studies	TMTpro labeling, multiplexing quantitative approach	Isobaric labeling is the most widely used multiplexing quantitative approach in proteomic studies, enabling the comparison of up to 18 samples in a single MS analysis. Expanding the multiplexing capacity is of great necessity for high-throughput proteomic studies. Herein, we establish a novel TAG-TMTpro approach by introducing Ala or Gly residues to peptides prior to TMTpro labeling, which is able to triple the quantitative capacity of TMTpro. We systematically evaluated the Boc-Ala-OSu and Boc-Gly-OSu reaction and optimized the conditions for labeling, side-product elimination, and Boc deprotection. We validated the identification and quantification performance using E. coli and HeLa cell lysates. We demonstrated that the TAG-TMTpro approach resulted in good identification reproducibility and reliable quantitative accuracy. The TAG-TMTpro is able to triple the multiplexing capacity of TMTpro reagents and is a versatile quantitative approach for high-throughput proteomic studies. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD033711.
PXD029354	36066346	A specific role for importin-5 and NASP in the import and nuclear hand-off of monomeric H3. 	Human cell lines pulldown interactions CL-MSMS	BioID, HEK293-F, HeLa FRT, Warwick_RTP, histone chaperone	Core histones package chromosomal DNA and regulate genomic transactions, with their nuclear import and deposition involving importin-beta proteins and a dedicated repertoire of histone chaperones. Previously, a histone H3-H4 dimer has been isolated bound to importin-4 (Imp4) and the chaperone ASF1, suggesting that H3 and H4 fold together in the cytoplasm before nuclear import. However, other studies have shown the existence of monomeric H3 in the nucleus, indicating a post-import folding pathway. Here, we report that the predominant importin associated with cytoplasmic H3 is importin-5 (Imp5), which hands off its monomeric cargo to nuclear sNASP. Imp5, in contrast to Imp4, binds to both H3 and H4 containing constitutively monomeric mutations and binds to newly synthesised, monomeric H3 tethered in the cytoplasm. Constitutively monomeric H3 retains its interaction with NASP, whereas monomeric H4 retains interactions specifically with HAT1 and RBBP7. High-resolution separation of NASP interactors shows the 's' isoform but not the 't' isoform associates with monomeric H3, whilst both isoforms associate with H3-H4 dimers in at least three discrete multi-chaperoning complexes. In vitro binding experiments show mutual exclusivity between sNASP and Imp5 in binding H3, suggesting direct competition for interaction sites, with the GTP-bound form of Ran required for histone transfer. Finally, using pulse-chase analysis, we show that cytoplasm-tethered histones do not interact with endogenous NASP until they reach the nucleus, whereupon they bind rapidly. We propose an Imp5-specific import pathway for monomeric H3 that hands off to sNASP in the nucleus, with a parallel H4 pathway involving Imp5 and the HAT1-RBBP7 complex, followed by nuclear folding and hand-off to deposition factors.
PXD030241	36067153	Stress-dependent cell stiffening by tardigrade tolerance proteins that reversibly form a filamentous network and gel. 	Dehydration-dependent reversibly condensing proteins	tardigrade	Tardigrades are able to tolerate almost complete dehydration by entering a reversible ametabolic state called anhydrobiosis and resume their animation upon rehydration. Dehydrated tardigrades are exceptionally stable and withstand various physical extremes. Although trehalose and late embryogenesis abundant (LEA) proteins have been extensively studied as potent protectants against dehydration in other anhydrobiotic organisms, tardigrades produce high amounts of tardigrade-unique protective proteins. Cytoplasmic-abundant heat-soluble (CAHS) proteins are uniquely invented in the lineage of eutardigrades, a major class of the phylum Tardigrada and are essential for their anhydrobiotic survival. However, the precise mechanisms of their action in this protective role are not fully understood. In the present study, we first postulated the presence of tolerance proteins that form protective condensates via phase separation in a stress-dependent manner and searched for tardigrade proteins that reversibly form condensates upon dehydration-like stress. Through a comprehensive search using a desolvating agent, trifluoroethanol (TFE), we identified 336 proteins, collectively dubbed "TFE-Dependent ReversiblY condensing Proteins (T-DRYPs)." Unexpectedly, we rediscovered CAHS proteins as highly enriched in T-DRYPs, 3 of which were major components of T-DRYPs. We revealed that these CAHS proteins reversibly polymerize into many cytoskeleton-like filaments depending on hyperosmotic stress in cultured cells and undergo reversible gel-transition in vitro. Furthermore, CAHS proteins increased cell stiffness in a hyperosmotic stress-dependent manner and counteract the cell shrinkage caused by osmotic pressure, and even improved the survival against hyperosmotic stress. The conserved putative helical C-terminal region is necessary and sufficient for filament formation by CAHS proteins, and mutations disrupting the secondary structure of this region impaired both the filament formation and the gel transition. On the basis of these results, we propose that CAHS proteins are novel cytoskeleton-like proteins that form filamentous networks and undergo gel-transition in a stress-dependent manner to provide on-demand physical stabilization of cell integrity against deformative forces during dehydration and could contribute to the exceptional physical stability in a dehydrated state.
PXD035703	36067866	Secretory expression of mammalian NOTCH tandem epidermal growth factor-like repeats based on increased O-glycosylation. 	Secretory expression of mammalian NOTCH tandem epidermal growth factor-like repeats based on increased O-glycosylation	EGF, NOTCH, O-GlcNAc	The Notch pathway represents evolutionarily conserved intercellular signaling essential for cell-to-cell communication during development. Dysregulation of Notch signaling has been implicated in various diseases, and its control represents a potential cancer treatment strategy. Notch signaling is initiated by the interaction of NOTCH receptors with their ligands on neighboring cells. Therefore, the truncated NOTCH ectodomain, composed mainly of tandem repeats of epidermal growth factor-like (EGF) domains, serves as a decoy molecule that competes for ligand binding and thus inhibits ligand-dependent Notch signaling. Although full-length NOTCH EGF repeats exhibited potent Notch inhibitory activity, they were poorly produced in the transfected cells. This study evaluated the effect of EGF domain-modifying glycosyltransferases on the secretion of NOTCH EGF repeats. Our results in HEK293T cells revealed that, unlike the effect on endogenous NOTCH receptors, overexpressed EGF domain-specific O-GlcNAc transferase (EOGT) markedly enhanced the secretion of NOTCH1 EGF repeats in an enzyme activity-dependent manner. The co-expression of protein O-glucosyltransferase 1 further manifested the effect of EOGT. The resultant changes in O-glycosylation of NOTCH3 were evaluated by label-free glycopeptide quantification. This study provides an experimental strategy to efficiently generate NOTCH EGF repeats by manipulating the expression of glycosyltransferases that alter the O-glycosylation of EGF domains.
PXD036554	36068205	Artificial intelligence defines protein-based classification of thyroid nodules. 	Artificial intelligence defines protein-based classification of thyroid nodules	FFPE, Thyroid	Determination of malignancy in thyroid nodules remains a major diagnostic challenge. Here we report the feasibility and clinical utility of developing an AI-defined protein-based biomarker panel for diagnostic classification of thyroid nodules: based initially on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE), and further refined for fine-needle aspiration (FNA) tissue specimens of minute amounts which pose technical challenges for other methods. We first developed a neural network model of 19 protein biomarkers based on the proteomes of 1724 FFPE thyroid tissue samples from a retrospective cohort. This classifier achieved over 91% accuracy in the discovery set for classifying malignant thyroid nodules. The classifier was externally validated by blinded analyses in a retrospective cohort of 288 nodules (89% accuracy; FFPE) and a prospective cohort of 294 FNA biopsies (85% accuracy) from twelve independent clinical centers. This study shows that integrating high-throughput proteomics and AI technology in multi-center retrospective and prospective clinical cohorts facilitates precise disease diagnosis which is otherwise difficult to achieve by other methods.
PXD035829	36068222	PIM1 promotes hepatic conversion by suppressing reprogramming-induced ferroptosis and cell cycle arrest. 	Phosphoproteome and proteome of mouse hepatocyte maturation and human hepatic reprogramming	Phosphoproteome, TMT, hepatic reprogramming, hepatocyte maturation	Protein kinase-mediated phosphorylation plays a critical role in many biological processes. However, the identification of key regulatory kinases is still a great challenge. Here, we develop a trans-omics-based method, central kinase inference, to predict potentially key kinases by integrating quantitative transcriptomic and phosphoproteomic data. Using known kinases associated with anti-cancer drug resistance, the accuracy of our method denoted by the area under the curve is 5.2% to 29.5% higher than Kinase-Substrate Enrichment Analysis. We further use this method to analyze trans-omic data in hepatocyte maturation and hepatic reprogramming of human dermal fibroblasts, uncovering 5 kinases as regulators in the two processes. Further experiments reveal that a serine/threonine kinase, PIM1, promotes hepatic conversion and protects human dermal fibroblasts from reprogramming-induced ferroptosis and cell cycle arrest. This study not only reveals new regulatory kinases, but also provides a helpful method that might be extended to predict central kinases involved in other biological processes.
PXD034368	36070201	Large-scale top-down proteomics of the Arabidopsis thaliana leaf and chloroplast proteomes. 	Large-scale Top-down Proteomics of the Arabidopsis thaliana Leaf and Chloroplast Proteomes	chloroplast, post-translational modification, proteoform, singlet oxygen, transit peptide	We present a large-scale top-down proteomics (TDP) study of plant leaf and chloroplast proteins, achieving the identification of over 4700 unique proteoforms. Using capillary zone electrophoresis coupled with tandem mass spectrometry analysis of offline size-exclusion chromatography fractions, we identify 3198 proteoforms for total leaf and 1836 proteoforms for chloroplast, with 1024 and 363 proteoforms having post-translational modifications, respectively. The electrophoretic mobility prediction of capillary zone electrophoresis allowed us to validate post-translational modifications that impact the charge state such as acetylation and phosphorylation. Identified modifications included Trp (di)oxidation events on six chloroplast proteins that may represent novel targets of singlet oxygen sensing. Furthermore, our TDP data provides direct experimental evidence of the N- and C-terminal residues of numerous mature proteoforms from chloroplast, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, and other sub-cellular localizations. With this information, we suggest true transit peptide cleavage sites and correct sub-cellular localization signal predictions. This large-scale analysis illustrates the power of top-down proteoform identification of post-translational modifications and intact sequences that can benefit our understanding of both the structure and function of hundreds of plant proteins.
PXD033615	36070387	Variant Polycomb complexes in Drosophila consistent with ancient functional diversity. 	Drosophila variant Polycomb complex subunits LC-MS	BioTAP-XL, Drosophila vPRC1, LC-MS, PRC2.2, Polycomb	Polycomb group (PcG) mutants were first identified in Drosophila on the basis of their failure to maintain proper Hox gene repression during development. The proteins encoded by the corresponding fly genes mainly assemble into one of two discrete Polycomb repressive complexes: PRC1 or PRC2. However, biochemical analyses in mammals have revealed alternative forms of PRC2 and multiple distinct types of noncanonical or variant PRC1. Through a series of proteomic analyses, we identify analogous PRC2 and variant PRC1 complexes in Drosophila, as well as a broader repertoire of interactions implicated in early development. Our data provide strong support for the ancient diversity of PcG complexes and a framework for future analysis in a longstanding and versatile genetic system.
PXD030377	36071040	PP6 negatively modulates LUBAC-mediated M1-ubiquitination of RIPK1 and c-FLIPL to promote TNFalpha-mediated cell death. 	pp6 is recruited in TNFalpha induced complex I	TNFR1 complex, pp6	Activation of TNFR1 by TNFalpha induces the formation of a membrane-associated, intracellular complex termed complex I. Complex I orchestrates a complex pattern of modifications on key regulators of TNF signaling that collectively determines the cell fate by activating pro-survival or executing cell death programs. However, the regulatory mechanism of complex I in cell-fate decision is not fully understood. Here we identify protein phosphatase-6 (PP6) as a previously unidentified component of complex I. Loss of PP6 protects cells from TNFalpha-mediated cell death. The role of PP6 in regulating cell death requires its phosphatase activity and regulatory subunits. Further mechanistic studies show that PP6 modulates LUBAC-mediated M1-ubiquitination of RIPK1 and c-FLIPL to promote RIPK1 activation and c-FLIPL degradation. We also show that melanoma-associated PP6 inactivating mutants offer resistance to cell death due to the loss of sensitivity to TNFalpha. Thus, our study provides a potential mechanism by which melanoma-related PP6 inactivating mutations promote cancer progression.
PXD032242	36071157	Identification of trypsin-degrading commensals in the large intestine. 	Identification of complex of Paraprevotella clara 00502 protein and human PRSS2	00502, PRSS2, Paraprevotella clara, in-gel digestion	Increased levels of proteases, such as trypsin, in the distal intestine have been implicated in intestinal pathological conditions(1-3). However, the players and mechanisms that underlie protease regulation in the intestinal lumen have remained unclear. Here we show that Paraprevotella strains isolated from the faecal microbiome of healthy human donors are potent trypsin-degrading commensals. Mechanistically, Paraprevotella recruit trypsin to the bacterial surface through type IX secretion system-dependent polysaccharide-anchoring proteins to promote trypsin autolysis. Paraprevotella colonization protects IgA from trypsin degradation and enhances the effectiveness of oral vaccines against Citrobacter rodentium. Moreover, Paraprevotella colonization inhibits lethal infection with murine hepatitis virus-2, a mouse coronavirus that is dependent on trypsin and trypsin-like proteases for entry into host cells(4,5). Consistently, carriage of putative genes involved in trypsin degradation in the gut microbiome was associated with reduced severity of diarrhoea in patients with SARS-CoV-2 infection. Thus, trypsin-degrading commensal colonization may contribute to the maintenance of intestinal homeostasis and protection from pathogen infection.
PXD034073	36071844	Cell-cycle and apoptosis related and proteomics-based signaling pathways of human hepatoma Huh-7 cells treated by three currently used multi-RTK inhibitors. 	Proteomics of Human Hepatoma Huh-7 Cells Treated by Three  Multi-RTK Inhibitors	Huh-7 Cells, Multi-RTK Inhibitors	Sorafenib, lenvatinib and regorafenib, the multi-RTK inhibitors with potent anti-angiogenesis effects, are currently therapeutic drugs generally recommended for the patients with advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). To date, however, there have been no published studies on the mechanism underling differential effects of the three drugs on HCC cell proliferation, and the proteomic analysis in HCC cell lines treated by regorafenib or lenvatinib. The present study for the first time performed a direct comparison of the cell cycle arrest and apoptosis induction in the Huh-7 cells caused by sorafenib, regorafenib and lenvatinib at respective IC50 using flow cytometry technique, as well as their pharmacological interventions for influencing whole cell proteomics using tandem mass tag-based peptide-labeling coupled with the nLC-HRMS technique. Sorafenib, regorafenib and lenvatinib at respective IC50 drove the remaining surviving Huh-7 cells into a G0/G1 arrest, but lenvatinib and regorafenib were much more effective than sorafenib. Lenvatinib produced a much stronger induction of Huh-7 cells into early apoptosis than sorafenib and regorafenib, while necrotic cell proportion induced by regorafenib was 2.4 times as large as that by lenvatinib. The proteomic study revealed 419 proteins downregulated commonly by the three drugs at respective IC50. KEGG pathway analysis of the downregulated proteins indicated the ranking of top six signaling pathways including the spliceosome, DNA replication, cell cycle, mRNA surveillance, P53 and nucleotide excision repair involved in 33 proteins, all of which were directly related to their pharmacological effects on cell cycle and cell apoptosis. Notably, lenvatinib and regorafenib downregulated the proteins of PCNA, Cyclin B1, BCL-xL, TSP1, BUD31, SF3A1 and Mad2 much more strongly than sorafenib. Moreover, most of the proteins in the P53 signaling pathway were downregulated with lenvatinib and regorafenib by more than 36% at least. In conclusion, lenvatinib and regorafenib have much stronger potency against Huh-7 cell proliferation than sorafenib because of their more potent effects on cell cycle arrest and apoptosis induction. The underling mechanism may be at least due to the 33 downregulated proteins centralizing the signal pathways of cell cycle, p53 and DNA synthesis based on the present proteomics study.
PXD030689	36071970	Dimethyl phthalate destroys the cell membrane structural integrity of Pseudomonas fluorescens. 	Dimethyl phthalate changed pseudomonas fluorescens proteomics	Pseudomonas fluorescens, dimethyl phthalate	A Gram-negative bacteria (Pseudomonas fluorescens) was exposed to different concentrations (0, 20, and 40 mg/L) of dimethyl phthalate (DMP) for 8 h, and then Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) analysis, lipopolysaccharide content detection, analysis of fatty acids, calcein release test, proteomics, non-targeted metabolomics, and enzyme activity assays were used to evaluate the toxicological effect of DMP on P. fluorescens. The results showed that DMP exposure caused an increase in the unsaturated fatty acid/saturated fatty acid (UFA/SFA) ratio and in the release of lipopolysaccharides (LPSs) from the cell outer membrane (OM) of P. fluorescens. Moreover, DMP regulated the abundances of phosphatidyl ethanolamine (PE) and phosphatidyl glycerol (PG) of P. fluorescens and induced dye leakage from an artificial membrane. Additionally, excessive reactive oxygen species (ROS), malondialdehyde (MDA), and changes in antioxidant enzymes (i.e., catalase [CAT] and superoxide dismutase [SOD]) activities, as well as the inhibition of Ca(2+)-Mg(2+)-ATPase and Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activities in P. fluorescens, which were induced by the DMP. In summary, DMP could disrupt the lipid asymmetry of the outer membrane, increase the fluidity of the cell membrane, and destroy the integrity of the cell membrane of P. fluorescens through lipid peroxidation, oxidative stress, and ion imbalance.
PXD035459	36072607	Multi-omics analysis of naive B cells of patients harboring the C104R mutation in TACI. 	Multi-omics Analysis of naive B cells of patients harboring the C104R mutation in TACI	ATAC-seq, CD40L stimulation, CVID, DNA accessibility, NF-ï«B, RNA-seq, TACI, TNFRSF13B, naÃ¯ve B cells, transcription factor	Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is the most prevalent form of symptomatic primary immunodeficiency in humans. The genetic cause of CVID is still unknown in about 70% of cases. Ten percent of CVID patients carry heterozygous mutations in the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily member 13B gene (TNFRSF13B), encoding TACI. Mutations in TNFRSF13B alone may not be sufficient for the development of CVID, as 1% of the healthy population carry these mutations. The common hypothesis is that TACI mutations are not fully penetrant and additional factors contribute to the development of CVID. To determine these additional factors, we investigated the perturbations of transcription factor (TF) binding and the transcriptome profiles in unstimulated and CD40L/IL21-stimulated naive B cells from CVID patients harboring the C104R mutation in TNFRSF13B and compared them to their healthy relatives with the same mutation. In addition, the proteome of stimulated naive B cells was investigated. For functional validation, intracellular protein concentrations were measured by flow cytometry. Our analysis revealed 8% less accessible chromatin in unstimulated naive B cells and 25% less accessible chromatin in class-switched memory B cells from affected and unaffected TACI mutation carriers compared to healthy donors. The most enriched TF binding motifs in TACI mutation carriers involved members from the ETS, IRF, and NF-kappaB TF families. Validation experiments supported dysregulation of the NF-kappaB and MAPK pathways. In steady state, naive B cells had increased cell death pathways and reduced cell metabolism pathways, while after stimulation, enhanced immune responses and decreased cell survival were detected. Using a multi-omics approach, our findings provide valuable insights into the impaired biology of naive B cells from TACI mutation carriers.
PXD031313	36074008	Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells Survive on the Ischemic TCA Cycle under Lethal Ischemic Conditions. 	The proteomics data of human umbilical vein endothelial cells under lethal ischemia condition	HUVECs, ischemia/reperfusion injury	It is generally believed that vascular endothelial cells (VECs) rely on glycolysis instead of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle under both normoxic and hypoxic conditions. However, the metabolic pattern of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) under extreme ischemia (hypoxia and nutrient deprivation) needs to be elucidated. We initiated a lethal ischemic model of HUVECs, performed proteomics and bioinformatics, and verified the metabolic pattern shift of HUVECs. Ischemic HUVECs displayed extensive aerobic respiration, including upregulation of the TCA cycle and mitochondrial respiratory chain in mitochondria and downregulation of glycolysis in cytoplasm. The TCA cycle was enhanced while the cell viability was decreased through the citrate synthase pathway when substrates of the TCA cycle (acetate and/or pyruvate) were added and vice versa when inhibitors of the TCA cycle (palmitoyl-CoA and/or avidin) were applied. The inconsistency of the TCA cycle level and cell viability suggested that the extensive TCA cycle can keep cells alive yet generate toxic substances that reduce cell viability. The data revealed that HUVECs depend on "ischemic TCA cycle" instead of glycolysis to keep cells alive under lethal ischemic conditions, but consideration must be given to relieve cell injury.
PXD029609	36074821	The human disease gene LYSET is essential for lysosomal enzyme transport and viral infection. 	The human disease gene TMEM251 is essential for lysosomal transport and viral infection	TMEM 251, data independent acquisition (DIA), label free quantification, mouse embryonic fibroblasts, parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), targeted MS	Lysosomes are key degradative compartments of the cell. Transport to lysosomes relies on GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase-mediated tagging of soluble enzymes with mannose 6-phosphate (M6P). GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase deficiency leads to the severe lysosomal storage disorder mucolipidosis II (MLII). Several viruses require lysosomal cathepsins to cleave structural proteins and thus depend on functional GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase. We used genome-scale CRISPR screens to identify lysosomal enzyme trafficking factor (LYSET, also named TMEM251) as essential for infection by cathepsin-dependent viruses including severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2). LYSET deficiency resulted in global loss of M6P tagging and mislocalization of GlcNAc-1-phosphotransferase from the Golgi complex to lysosomes. Lyset knockout mice exhibited MLII-like phenotypes, and human pathogenic LYSET alleles failed to restore lysosomal sorting defects. Thus, LYSET is required for correct functioning of the M6P trafficking machinery and mutations in LYSET can explain the phenotype of the associated disorder.
PXD024127	36075902	Structure-function analysis of enterovirus protease 2A in complex with its essential host factor SETD3. 	Structural, biochemical and functional characterization of the essential host factor SETD3 in complex with the enterovirus CV-B3 2A protease	2A protease, AP-MS, SETD3, enterovirus, host-pathogen interactions	Enteroviruses cause a number of medically relevant and widespread human diseases with no approved antiviral therapies currently available. Host-directed therapies present an enticing option for this diverse genus of viruses. We have previously identified the actin histidine methyltransferase SETD3 as a critical host factor physically interacting with the viral protease 2A. Here, we report the 3.5 Aa cryo-EM structure of SETD3 interacting with coxsackievirus B3 2A at two distinct interfaces, including the substrate-binding surface within the SET domain. Structure-function analysis revealed that mutations of key residues in the SET domain resulted in severely reduced binding to 2A and complete protection from enteroviral infection. Our findings provide insight into the molecular basis of the SETD3-2A interaction and a framework for the rational design of host-directed therapeutics against enteroviruses.
PXD027938	36077090	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Liver Tissues and Serum in db/db Mice. 	Leptin-deficient Mouse Liver TMT-label Discovery Proteomics Profiling	Liver, TMT-lable	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) affects one-quarter of individuals worldwide. Liver biopsy, as the current reliable method for NAFLD evaluation, causes low patient acceptance because of the nature of invasive sampling. Therefore, sensitive non-invasive serum biomarkers are urgently needed. RESULTS: The serum gene ontology (GO) classification and Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) analysis revealed the DEPs enriched in pathways including JAK-STAT and FoxO. GO analysis indicated that serum DEPs were mainly involved in the cellular process, metabolic process, response to stimulus, and biological regulation. Hepatic proteomic KEGG analysis revealed the DEPs were mainly enriched in the PPAR signaling pathway, retinol metabolism, glycine, serine, and threonine metabolism, fatty acid elongation, biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, glutathione metabolism, and steroid hormone biosynthesis. GO analysis revealed that DEPs predominantly participated in cellular, biological regulation, multicellular organismal, localization, signaling, multi-organism, and immune system processes. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) implied diverse clusters of the DEPs. Besides, the paralleled changes of the common upregulated and downregulated DEPs existed in both the liver and serum were validated in the mRNA expression of NRP1, MUP3, SERPINA1E, ALPL, and ALDOB as observed in our proteomic screening. METHODS: We conducted hepatic and serum proteomic analysis based on the leptin-receptor-deficient mouse (db/db), a well-established diabetic mouse model with overt obesity and NAFLD. The results show differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in hepatic and serum proteomic analysis. A parallel reaction monitor (PRM) confirmed the authenticity of the selected DEPs. CONCLUSION: These results are supposed to offer sensitive non-invasive serum biomarkers for diabetes and NAFLD.
PXD032739	36077319	Three-Dimensional Envelope and Subunit Interactions of the Plastid-Encoded RNA Polymerase from Sinapis alba. 	Characterization vy crosslinking-mass spectrometry of plastid-encoded RNA polymerase purified from Sinapis alba.	PEP associated proteins, chloroplast biogenesis, crosslinking, nanoLC-MS/MS, photomorphogenesis, photosynthesis, plastid-encoded RNA polymerase, transcription	RNA polymerases (RNAPs) are found in all living organisms. In the chloroplasts, the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase (PEP) is a prokaryotic-type multimeric RNAP involved in the selective transcription of the plastid genome. One of its active states requires the assembly of nuclear-encoded PEP-Associated Proteins (PAPs) on the catalytic core, producing a complex of more than 900 kDa, regarded as essential for chloroplast biogenesis. In this study, sequence alignments of the catalytic core subunits across various chloroplasts of the green lineage and prokaryotes combined with structural data show that variations are observed at the surface of the core, whereas internal amino acids associated with the catalytic activity are conserved. A purification procedure compatible with a structural analysis was used to enrich the native PEP from Sinapis alba chloroplasts. A mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomic analysis revealed the core components, the PAPs and additional proteins, such as FLN2 and pTAC18. MS coupled with crosslinking (XL-MS) provided the initial structural information in the form of protein clusters, highlighting the relative position of some subunits with the surfaces of their interactions. Using negative stain electron microscopy, the PEP three-dimensional envelope was calculated. Particles classification shows that the protrusions are very well-conserved, offering a framework for the future positioning of all the PAPs. Overall, the results show that PEP-associated proteins are firmly and specifically associated with the catalytic core, giving to the plastid transcriptional complex a singular structure compared to other RNAPs.
PXD029330	36077502	Cottonseed Meal Protein Isolate as a New Source of Alternative Proteins: A Proteomics Perspective. 	Proteomics analysis on cottonseed meal protein isolate extract-ed using improved gossypol removal method	acidified organic solvent-based gossypol removal, alka-line-based protein solubilisation, allergen, cottonseed meal, gossypol	Cottonseed meal (CSM) is a good source of dietary proteins but is unsuitable for human consumption due to its gossypol content. To unlock its potential, we developed a protein extraction process with a gossypol removal treatment to generate CSM protein isolate (CSMPI) with ultra-low gossypol content. This process successfully reduced the free and total gossypol content to 4.8 ppm and 147.2 ppm, respectively, far below the US FDA limit. In addition, the functional characterisation of CSMPI revealed a better oil absorption capacity and water solubility than pea protein isolate. Proteome profiling showed that the treatment improved protein identification, while SDS-PAGE analysis indicated that the treatment did not induce protein degradation. Amino acid analysis revealed that post-treated CSMPI was rich in branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs). Mass spectrometry analysis of various protein fractions obtained from an in vitro digestibility assay helped to establish the digestibility profile of CSM proteins. Several potential allergens in CSMPI were also found using allergenic prediction software, but further evaluation based on their digestibility profiles and literature reviews suggests that the likelihood of CSMPI allergenicity remains low. Overall, our results help to navigate and direct the application of CSMPIs as alternative proteins toward nutritive human food application.
PXD023876	36077593	Proteomic Analysis of HCC-1954 and MCF-7 Cell Lines Highlights Crosstalk between alphav and beta1 Integrins, E-Cadherin and HER-2. 	Proteomic analysis of HCC-1954 and MCF-7 cell lines highlights crosstalk between alphavbeta1 integrin, E-cadherin and HER-2	Breast cancer, HCC-1954, HER-2, MCF-7, membrane proteins	Overexpression of human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 (HER-2) occurs in 20% of all breast cancer subtypes, especially those that present the worst prognostic outcome through a very invasive and aggressive tumour. HCC-1954 (HER-2+) is a highly invasive, metastatic cell line, whereas MCF-7 is mildly aggressive and non-invasive. We investigated membrane proteins from both cell lines that could have a pivotal biological significance in metastasis. Membrane protein enrichment for HCC-1954 and MCF-7 proteomic analysis was performed. The samples were analysed and quantified by mass spectrometry. High abundance membrane proteins were confirmed by Western blot, immunofluorescence, and flow cytometry. Protein interaction prediction and correlations with the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) patient data were conducted by bioinformatic analysis. In addition, beta1 integrin expression was analysed by Western blot in cells upon trastuzumab treatment. The comparison between HCC-1954 and MCF-7 membrane-enriched proteins revealed that proteins involved in cytoskeleton organisation, such as HER-2, alphav and beta1 integrins, E-cadherin, and CD166 were more abundant in HCC-1954. beta1 integrin membrane expression was higher in the HCC-1954 cell line resistant after trastuzumab treatment. TCGA data analysis showed a trend toward a positive correlation between HER-2 and beta1 integrin in HER-2+ breast cancer patients. Differences in protein profile and abundance reflected distinctive capabilities for aggressiveness and invasiveness between HCC-1954 and MCF-7 cell line phenotypes. The higher membrane beta1 integrin expression after trastuzumab treatment in the HCC-1954 cell line emphasised the need for investigating the contribution of beta1 integrin modulation and its effect on the mechanism of trastuzumab resistance.
PXD034154	36077757	Identification of Src Family Kinases as Potential Therapeutic Targets for Chemotherapy-Resistant Triple Negative Breast Cancer. 	Src Family Kinases as potential therapeutic targets for chemotherapy-resistant triple negative breast cancer	Breast cancer, Chemotherapy resistance, Phosphoproteomics, Phosphotyrosine, TNBC	Neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) remains the cornerstone of the treatment for triple negative breast cancer (TNBC), with the goal of complete eradication of disease. However, for patients with residual disease after NAC, recurrence and mortality rates are high and the identification of novel therapeutic targets is urgently needed. We quantified tyrosine phosphorylation (pTyr)-mediated signaling networks in chemotherapy sensitive (CS) and resistant (CR) TNBC patient-derived xenografts (PDX), to gain novel therapeutic insights. The antitumor activity of SFK inhibition was examined in vivo. Treated tumors were further subjected to phosphoproteomic and RNAseq analysis, to identify the mechanism of actions of the drug. We identified Src Family Kinases (SFKs) as potential therapeutic targets in CR TNBC PDXs. Treatment with dasatinib, an FDA approved SFK inhibitor, led to inhibition of tumor growth in vivo. Further analysis of post-treatment PDXs revealed multiple mechanisms of actions of the drug, confirming the multi-target inhibition of dasatinib. Analysis of pTyr in tumor specimens suggested a low prevalence of SFK-driven tumors, which may provide insight into prior clinical trial results demonstrating a lack of dasatinib antitumor activity in unselected breast cancer patients. Taken together, these results underscore the importance of pTyr characterization of tumors, in identifying new targets, as well as stratifying patients based on their activated signaling networks for therapeutic options. Our data provide a strong rationale for studying SFK inhibitors in biomarker-selected SFK-driven TNBC.
PXD030549	36078064	The CaMKII/MLC1 Axis Confers Ca(2+)-Dependence to Volume-Regulated Anion Channels (VRAC) in Astrocytes. 	MLC phosphorylation by the kinase CaMKII	MLC Megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy phosphorylation mass spectrometry	Astrocytes, the main glial cells of the central nervous system, play a key role in brain volume control due to their intimate contacts with cerebral blood vessels and the expression of a distinctive equipment of proteins involved in solute/water transport. Among these is MLC1, a protein highly expressed in perivascular astrocytes and whose mutations cause megalencephalic leukoencephalopathy with subcortical cysts (MLC), an incurable leukodystrophy characterized by macrocephaly, chronic brain edema, cysts, myelin vacuolation, and astrocyte swelling. Although, in astrocytes, MLC1 mutations are known to affect the swelling-activated chloride currents (ICl,swell) mediated by the volume-regulated anion channel (VRAC), and the regulatory volume decrease, MLC1's proper function is still unknown. By combining molecular, biochemical, proteomic, electrophysiological, and imaging techniques, we here show that MLC1 is a Ca(2+)/Calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) target protein, whose phosphorylation, occurring in response to intracellular Ca(2+) release, potentiates VRAC-mediated ICl,swell. Overall, these findings reveal that MLC1 is a Ca(2+)-regulated protein, linking volume regulation to Ca(2+) signaling in astrocytes. This knowledge provides new insight into the MLC1 protein function and into the mechanisms controlling ion/water exchanges in the brain, which may help identify possible molecular targets for the treatment of MLC and other pathological conditions caused by astrocyte swelling and brain edema.
PXD034958	36080226	Prognostic Value of Molecular Intratumor Heterogeneity in Primary Oral Cancer and Its Lymph Node Metastases Assessed by Mass Spectrometry Imaging. 	Prognostic value of molecular intratumor heterogeneity in primary oral cancer and its lymph node metastases assessed by mass spectrometry imaging	cancer prognosis, head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, intratumor heterogeneity, long-term outcome, mass spectrometry imaging, tumor microenvironment	Different aspects of intra-tumor heterogeneity (ITH), which are associated with the development of cancer and its response to treatment, have postulated prognostic value. Here we searched for potential association between phenotypic ITH analyzed by mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) and prognosis of head and neck cancer. The study involved tissue specimens resected from 77 patients with locally advanced oral squamous cell carcinoma, including 37 patients where matched samples of primary tumor and synchronous lymph node metastases were analyzed. A 3-year follow-up was available for all patients which enabled their separation into two groups: with no evidence of disease (NED, n = 41) and with progressive disease (PD, n = 36). After on-tissue trypsin digestion, peptide maps of all cancer regions were segmented using an unsupervised approach to reveal their intrinsic heterogeneity. We found that intra-tumor similarity of spectra was higher in the PD group and diversity of clusters identified during image segmentation was higher in the NED group, which indicated a higher level of ITH in patients with more favorable outcomes. Signature of molecular components that correlated with long-term outcomes could be associated with proteins involved in the immune functions. Furthermore, a positive correlation between ITH and histopathological lymphocytic host response was observed. Hence, we proposed that a higher level of ITH revealed by MSI in cancers with a better prognosis could reflect the presence of heterotypic components of tumor microenvironment such as infiltrating immune cells enhancing the response to the treatment.
PXD035715	36081788	Differential effect of SARS-CoV-2 infection on stress granule formation in Vero and Calu-3 cells. 	SARS-CoV-2 N protein interacts with cellular G3BP	Calu-3, Covid-19, G3BP1, N protein, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2	Stress granule formation is induced by numerous environmental stressors, including sodium arsenite treatment and viral infection. Accordingly, stress granules can inhibit viral propagation and function as part of the antiviral host response to numerous viral infections. Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-2 (SARS-CoV-2) antagonizes stress granule formation, in part, via interaction between SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid (N) protein and Ras-GTPase-activating SH3-domain-binding protein 1 (G3BP1). However, it is unclear whether there are differential effects in different cell types. In this study, we assessed interaction between the N protein of SARS-CoV-2 S clade and G3BP1/2 in Vero and Calu-3 cells and investigated the effect of various SARS-CoV-2 strains on sodium arsenite-induced stress granule formation. Our data show that SARS-CoV-2 S clade N protein interacts with both G3BP1 and G3BP2 more strongly in Calu-3 vs. Vero cells. Consistent with this observation, infection with SARS-CoV-2 S clade induces stress granule formation in Vero but not in Calu-3 cells. However, infection with SARS-CoV-2 S clade, as well as other SARS-CoV-2 variants, inhibits sodium arsenite-induced stress granule formation in both cell lines. Taken together, our results show differential effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection on stress granule formation that is dependent on host cell type, rather than virus strain type.
PXD033660	36081986	Identification of Four Biomarkers of Human Skin Aging by Comprehensive Single Cell Transcriptome, Transcriptome, and Proteomics. 	Identification of four biomarkers of human skin aging by comprehensive single cell transcriptome, transcriptome, and proteomics	Senescence, fibroblast	Background: Aging is characterized by the gradual loss of physiological integrity, resulting in impaired function and easier death. This deterioration is a major risk factor for major human pathological diseases, including cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease and neurodegenerative diseases. It is very important to find biomarkers that can prevent aging. Methods: Q-Exactive-MS was used for proteomic detection of young and senescence fibroblast. The key senescence-related molecules (SRMs) were identified by integrating transcriptome and proteomics from aging tissue/cells, and the correlation between these differentially expressed genes and well-known aging-related pathways. Next, we validated the expression of these molecules using qPCR, and explored the correlation between them and immune infiltrating cells. Finally, the enriched pathways of the genes significantly related to the four differential genes were identified using the single cell transcriptome. Results: we first combined proteomics and transcriptome to identified four SRMs. Data sets including GSE63577, GSE64553, GSE18876, GSE85358, and qPCR confirmed that ETF1, PLBD2, ASAH1, and MOXD1 were identified as SRMs. Then the correlation between SRMs and aging-related pathways was excavated and verified. Next, we verified the expression of SRMs at the tissue level and qPCR, and explored the correlation between them and immune infiltrating cells. Finally, at the single-cell transcriptome level, we verified their expression and explored the possible pathway by which they lead to aging. Briefly, ETF1 may affect the changes of inflammatory factors such as IL-17, IL-6, and NFKB1 by indirectly regulating the enrichment and differentiation of immune cells. MOXD1 may regulate senescence by affecting the WNT pathway and changing the cell cycle. ASAH1 may affect development and regulate the phenotype of aging by affecting cell cycle-related genes. Conclusion: In general, based on the analysis of proteomics and transcriptome, we identified four SRMs that may affect aging and speculated their possible mechanisms, which provides a new target for preventing aging, especially skin aging.
PXD034564	36082605	Aging is associated with increased chromatin accessibility and reduced polymerase pausing in liver. 	Reduced polymerase pausing compensates for increased chromatin accessibility in the aging liver	TMT, aging, chromating, liver, polymerase	Regulation of gene expression is linked to the organization of the genome. With age, chromatin alterations occur on all levels of genome organization, accompanied by changes in the gene expression profile. However, little is known about the changes in the level of transcriptional regulation. Here, we used a multi-omics approach and integrated ATAC-, RNA- and NET-seq to identify age-related changes in the chromatin landscape of murine liver and to investigate how these are linked to transcriptional regulation. We provide the first systematic inventory of the connection between aging, chromatin accessibility, and transcriptional regulation in a whole tissue. Aging in murine liver is characterized by an increase in chromatin accessibility at promoter regions, but not in an increase in transcriptional output. Instead, aging is accompanied by a decrease in promoter-proximal pausing of RNA polymerase II (Pol II), while initiation of transcription is not decreased as assessed by RNA polymerase mapping using CUT&RUN. Based on the data reported, we propose that these age-related changes in transcriptional regulation are due to a reduced stability of the pausing complex.
PXD031800	36082775	Integrated changes in thermal stability and proteome abundance during altered nutrient states in Escherichia coli and human cells. 	Integrated changes in thermal stability and proteome abundance during altered growth and metabolic cell states.Integrated changes in thermal stability and proteome abundance during altered growth and metabolic cell states.	PISA, thermal proteomic profiling	Altered thermal solubility measurement techniques are emerging as powerful tools to assess ligand binding, post-translational modification, protein-protein interactions, and many other cellular processes that affect protein state under various cellular conditions. Thermal solubility or stability profiling techniques are enabled on a global proteomic scale by employing isobaric tagging reagents that facilitate multiplexing capacity required to measure changes in the proteome across thermal gradients. Key among these is thermal proteomic profiling (TPP), which requires 8-10 isobaric tags per gradient and generation of multiple proteomic datasets to measure different replicates and conditions. Furthermore, using TPP to measure protein thermal stability state across different conditions may also require measurements of differential protein abundance. Here, we use the proteome integral stability alteration (PISA) assay, a higher throughput version of TPP, to measure global changes in protein thermal stability normalized to their protein abundance. We explore the use of this approach to determine changes in protein state between logarithmic and stationary phase Escherichia coli as well as glucose-starved human Hek293T cells. We observed protein intensity-corrected PISA changes in 290 and 350 proteins due to stationary phase transition in E. coli and glucose starvation, respectively. These data reveal several examples of proteins that were not previously associated with nutrient states by abundance alone. These include E. coli proteins such as putative acyl-CoA dehydrogenase (aidB) and chaperedoxin (cnoX) as well as human RAB vesicle trafficking proteins and many others which may indicate their involvement in metabolic diseases such as cancer.
PXD034944	36082941	Arbidol inhibits human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma growth in vitro and in vivo through suppressing ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related protein kinase. 	Proteomics analysis report of esophageal squamous cell carcinoma treated by Arbidol	Arbidol, Cancer, ESCC	Human esophageal cancer has a global impact on human health due to its high incidence and mortality. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop new drugs to treat or prevent the prominent pathological subtype of esophageal cancer, esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Based upon the screening of drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration, we discovered that Arbidol could effectively inhibit the proliferation of human ESCC in vitro. Next, we conducted a series of cell-based assays and found that Arbidol treatment inhibited the proliferation and colony formation ability of ESCC cells and promoted G1-phase cell cycle arrest. Phosphoproteomics experiments, in vitro kinase assays and pull-down assays were subsequently performed in order to identify the underlying growth inhibitory mechanism. We verified that Arbidol is a potential ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related (ATR) inhibitor via binding to ATR kinase to reduce the phosphorylation and activation of minichromosome maintenance protein 2 at Ser108. Finally, we demonstrated Arbidol had the inhibitory effect of ESCC in vivo by a patient-derived xenograft model. All together, Arbidol inhibits the proliferation of ESCC in vitro and in vivo through the DNA replication pathway and is associated with the cell cycle.
PXD035630	36084256	An Exercise-Induced Metabolic Shield in Distant Organs Blocks Cancer Progression and Metastatic Dissemination. 	Exercise forms a metabolic-shield in distant organs blocking cancer progression and metastatic  dissemination-Part 1	Exercise, cancer, metabolism	Exercise prevents cancer incidence and recurrence, yet the underlying mechanism behind this relationship remains mostly unknown. Here we report that exercise induces the metabolic reprogramming of internal organs that increases nutrient demand and protects against metastatic colonization by limiting nutrient availability to the tumor, generating an exercise-induced metabolic shield. Proteomic and ex vivo metabolic capacity analyses of murine internal organs revealed that exercise induces catabolic processes, glucose uptake, mitochondrial activity, and GLUT expression. Proteomic analysis of routinely active human subject plasma demonstrated increased carbohydrate utilization following exercise. Epidemiologic data from a 20-year prospective study of a large human cohort of initially cancer-free participants revealed that exercise prior to cancer initiation had a modest impact on cancer incidence in low metastatic stages but significantly reduced the likelihood of highly metastatic cancer. In three models of melanoma in mice, exercise prior to cancer injection significantly protected against metastases in distant organs. The protective effects of exercise were dependent on mTOR activity, and inhibition of the mTOR pathway with rapamycin treatment ex vivo reversed the exercise-induced metabolic shield. Under limited glucose conditions, active stroma consumed significantly more glucose at the expense of the tumor. Collectively, these data suggest a clash between the metabolic plasticity of cancer and exercise-induced metabolic reprogramming of the stroma, raising an opportunity to block metastasis by challenging the metabolic needs of the tumor. SIGNIFICANCE: Exercise protects against cancer progression and metastasis by inducing a high nutrient demand in internal organs, indicating that reducing nutrient availability to tumor cells represents a potential strategy to prevent metastasis. See related commentary by Zerhouni and Piskounova, p. 4124.
PXD036032	36084281	Targeted Quantitative Profiling of Epitranscriptomic Reader, Writer, and Eraser Proteins Using Stable Isotope-Labeled Peptides. 	Targeted Quantitative Profiling of Epitranscriptomic Reader, Writer and Eraser Proteins Revealed Potential Crosstalk between N6-Methyladenosine and Other RNA Modifications	Epitranscriptomic Reader, LC-PRM, N6-Methyladenosine, Writer and Eraser Proteins	N(6)-Methyladenosine (m(6)A) and its reader, writer, and eraser (RWE) proteins assume crucial roles in regulating the splicing, stability, and translation of mRNA. Aside from m(6)A, RNA is known to carry many other types of chemical modifications; no systematic investigations, however, have been conducted about the crosstalk between m(6)A and other modified nucleosides in RNA. Here, we modified our recently established liquid chromatography-parallel-reaction monitoring (LC-PRM) method by incorporating stable isotope-labeled (SIL) peptides as internal or surrogate standards for profiling epitranscriptomic RWE proteins. We were able to detect reproducibly a total of 114 RWE proteins in HEK293T cells with the genes encoding m(6)A eraser proteins (i.e., ALKBH5, FTO) and the catalytic subunit of the major m(6)A writer complex (i.e., METTL3) being individually ablated. Notably, eight proteins, including writer proteins for 5-methylcytidine and pseudouridine, were altered by more than 1.5-fold in the opposite directions in HEK293T cells depleted of METTL3 and ALKBH5. Analysis of previously published m(6)A mapping results revealed the presence of m(6)A in the corresponding mRNAs for four of these proteins. Together, we integrated SIL peptides into our LC-PRM method for quantifying epitranscriptomic RWE proteins, and our work revealed potential crosstalks between m(6)A and other epitranscriptomic modifications. Our modified LC-PRM method with the use of SIL peptides should be applicable for high-throughput profiling of epitranscriptomic RWE proteins in other cell types and in tissues.
PXD030861	36084875	Comparative Proteomic Analysis Identifies Key Metabolic Regulators of Gemcitabine Resistance in Pancreatic Cancer. 	MIA PaCa-2 cells treated with Gemcitabine	Gemcitabine, PDAC, Pancreatic cancer	Pancreatic adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is highly refractory to treatment. Standard-of-care gemcitabine (Gem) provides only modest survival benefits, and development of Gem resistance (GemR) compromises its efficacy. Highly GemR clones of Gem-sensitive MIAPaCa-2 cells were developed to investigate the molecular mechanisms of GemR and implemented global quantitative differential proteomics analysis with a comprehensive, reproducible ion-current-based MS1 workflow to quantify ~6000 proteins in all samples. In GemR clone MIA-GR8, cellular metabolism, proliferation, migration, and 'drug response' mechanisms were the predominant biological processes altered, consistent with cell phenotypic alterations in cell cycle and motility. S100 calcium binding protein A4 was the most downregulated protein, as were proteins associated with glycolytic and oxidative energy production. Both responses would reduce tumor proliferation. Upregulation of mesenchymal markers was prominent, and cellular invasiveness increased. Key enzymes in Gem metabolism pathways were altered such that intracellular utilization of Gem would decrease. Ribonucleoside-diphosphate reductase large subunit was the most elevated Gem metabolizing protein, supporting its critical role in GemR. Lower Ribonucleoside-diphosphate reductase large subunit expression is associated with better clinical outcomes in PDAC, and its downregulation paralleled reduced MIAPaCa-2 proliferation and migration and increased Gem sensitivity. Temporal protein-level Gem responses of MIAPaCa-2 versus GemR cell lines (intrinsically GemR PANC-1 and acquired GemR MIA-GR8) implicate adaptive changes in cellular response systems for cell proliferation and drug transport and metabolism, which reduce cytotoxic Gem metabolites, in DNA repair, and additional responses, as key contributors to the complexity of GemR in PDAC. These findings additionally suggest targetable therapeutic vulnerabilities for GemR PDAC patients.
PXD030752	36087581	Signaling snapshots of a serotonin receptor activated by the prototypical psychedelic LSD. 	Signaling mechanisms of the prototypical psychedelic LSD		Serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine [5-HT]) 5-HT2-family receptors represent essential targets for lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) and all other psychedelic drugs. Although the primary psychedelic drug effects are mediated by the 5-HT2A serotonin receptor (HTR2A), the 5-HT2B serotonin receptor (HTR2B) has been used as a model receptor to study the activation mechanisms of psychedelic drugs due to its high expression and similarity to HTR2A. In this study, we determined the cryo-EM structures of LSD-bound HTR2B in the transducer-free, Gq-protein-coupled, and beta-arrestin-1-coupled states. These structures provide distinct signaling snapshots of LSD's action, ranging from the transducer-free, partially active state to the transducer-coupled, fully active states. Insights from this study will both provide comprehensive molecular insights into the signaling mechanisms of the prototypical psychedelic LSD and accelerate the discovery of novel psychedelic drugs.
PXD034541	36088326	A bloody interaction: plasma proteomics reveals gilthead sea bream (Sparus aurata) impairment caused by Sparicotyle chrysophrii. 	Plasma proteomics reveals gilthead sea bream (Sparus aurata) impairment evoked by Sparicotyle chrysophrii	SWATH MS, Sparicotyle chrysophrii, Sparus aurata, blood, cholesterol, haemoglobin, host-parasite interaction, immune system	BACKGROUND: Sparicotylosis is an enzootic parasitic disease that is well established across the Mediterranean Sea. It is caused by the polyopisthocotylean monogenean Sparicotyle chrysophrii and affects the gills of gilthead sea bream (GSB; Sparus aurata). Current disease management, mitigation and treatment strategies are limited against sparicotylosis. To successfully develop more efficient therapeutic strategies against this disease, understanding which molecular mechanisms and metabolic pathways are altered in the host is critical. This study aims to elucidate how S. chrysophrii infection modulates the plasma proteome of GSB and to identify the main altered biological processes involved. METHODS: Experimental infections were conducted in a recirculating aquaculture system (RAS) in which naive recipient GSB ([R]; 70 g; n = 50) were exposed to effluent water from S. chrysophrii-infected GSB (98 g; n = 50). An additional tank containing unexposed naive fish (control [C]; 70 g; n = 50) was maintained in parallel, but with the open water flow disconnected from the RAS. Haematological and infection parameters from sampled C and R fish were recorded for 10 weeks. Plasma samples from R fish were categorised into three different groups according to their infection intensity, which was based on the number of worms fish(-1): low (L: 1-50), medium (51-100) and high (H: > 100). Five plasma samples from each category and five C samples were selected and subjected to a SWATH-MS proteome analysis. Additional assays on haemoglobin, cholesterol and the lytic activity of the alternative complement pathway were performed to validate the proteome analysis findings. RESULTS: The discriminant analysis of plasma protein abundance revealed a clear separation into three groups (H, M/L and C). A pathway analysis was performed with the differentially quantified proteins, indicating that the parasitic infection mainly affected pathways related to haemostasis, the immune system and lipid metabolism and transport. Twenty-two proteins were significantly correlated with infection intensity, highlighting the importance of apolipoproteins, globins and complement component 3. Validation assays of blood and plasma (haemoglobin, cholesterol and lytic activity of alternative complement pathway) confirmed these correlations. CONCLUSIONS: Sparicotylosis profoundly alters the haemostasis, the innate immune system and the lipid metabolism and transport in GSB. This study gives a crucial global overview of the pathogenesis of sparicotylosis and highlights new targets for further research.
PXD035857	36088362	Immunologically "cold" triple negative breast cancers engraft at a higher rate in patient derived xenografts. 	Proteomic Profiling of Breast Cancer Patient-Derived Xenograft	Breast Cancer	TNBC is a heterogeneous subtype of breast cancer, and only a subset of TNBC can be established as PDXs. Here, we show that there is an engraftment bias toward TNBC with low levels of immune cell infiltration. Additionally, TNBC that failed to engraft show gene expression consistent with a cancer-promoting immunological state, leading us to hypothesize that the immunological state of the tumor and possibly the state of the immune system of the host may be essential for engraftment.
PXD032149	36089065	Sequential in vitro enzymatic N-glycoprotein modification reveals site-specific rates of glycoenzyme processing. 	Origin of N-glycan site-specific heterogeneity glycopeptide analysis by LC-MSMS	N-glycan heterogeneity glycopeptide LC-MSMS	N-glycosylation is an essential eukaryotic posttranslational modification that affects various glycoprotein properties, including folding, solubility, protein-protein interactions, and half-life. N-glycans are processed in the secretory pathway to form varied ensembles of structures, and diversity at a single site on a glycoprotein is termed 'microheterogeneity'. To understand the factors that influence glycan microheterogeneity, we hypothesized that local steric and electrostatic factors surrounding each site influence glycan availability for enzymatic modification. We tested this hypothesis via expression of reporter N-linked glycoproteins in N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase MGAT1-null HEK293 cells to produce immature Man5GlcNAc2 glycoforms (38 glycan sites total). These glycoproteins were then sequentially modified in vitro from high mannose to hybrid and on to biantennary, core-fucosylated, complex structures by a panel of N-glycosylation enzymes, and each reaction time course was quantified by LC-MS/MS. Substantial differences in rates of in vitro enzymatic modification were observed between glycan sites on the same protein, and differences in modification rates varied depending on the glycoenzyme being evaluated. In comparison, proteolytic digestion of the reporters prior to N-glycan processing eliminated differences in in vitro enzymatic modification. Furthermore, comparison of in vitro rates of enzymatic modification with the glycan structures found on the mature reporters expressed in WT cells correlated well with the enzymatic bottlenecks observed in vivo. These data suggest higher order local structures surrounding each glycosylation site contribute to the efficiency of modification both in vitro and in vivo to establish the spectrum of microheterogeneity in N-linked glycoproteins.
PXD032003	36089194	Ionizing Radiation Drives Key Regulators of Antigen Presentation and a Global Expansion of the Immunopeptidome. 	CT26 Proteome and Immunopeptidome treated with Ionizing Radiation	MHC, immunopeptidomics, interferon signaling, ionizing radiation, ligandomics	Little is known about the pathways regulating MHC antigen presentation and the identity of treatment-specific T cell antigens induced by ionizing radiation. For this reason, we investigated the radiation-specific changes in the colorectal tumor cell proteome. We found an increase in DDX58 and ZBP1 protein expression, two nucleic acid sensing molecules likely involved in induction of the dominant interferon response signature observed after genotoxic insult. We further observed treatment-induced changes in key regulators and effector proteins of the antigen processing and presentation machinery. Differential regulation of MHC allele expression was further driving the presentation of a significantly broader MHC-associated peptidome postirradiation, defining a radiation-specific peptide repertoire. Interestingly, treatment-induced peptides originated predominantly from proteins involved in catecholamine synthesis and metabolic pathways. A nuanced relationship between protein expression and antigen presentation was observed where radiation-induced changes in proteins do not correlate with increased presentation of associated peptides. Finally, we detected an increase in the presentation of a tumor-specific neoantigen derived from Mtch1. This study provides new insights into how radiation enhances antigen processing and presentation that could be suitable for the development of combinatorial therapies. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD032003.
PXD031455	36089606	Comprehensive comparison between azacytidine and decitabine treatment in an acute myeloid leukemia cell line. 	Comprehensive comparison between azacytidine and decitabine treatment in an acute myeloid leukemia cell line	5-Aza-2-deoxycytidine, 5-Aza-Cytidine, Cancer, DNA damage, DNA hypomethylation, epigenetics	Azacytidine (AzaC) and decitabine (AzadC) are cytosine analogs that covalently trap DNA methyltransferases, which place the important epigenetic mark 5-methyl-2'-deoxycytidine by methylating 2'-deoxycytidine (dC) at the C5 position. AzaC and AzadC are used in the clinic as antimetabolites to treat myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myeloid leukemia and are explored against other types of cancer. Although their principal mechanism of action is known, the downstream effects of AzaC and AzadC treatment are not well understood and the cellular prerequisites that determine sensitivity toward AzaC and AzadC remain elusive. Here, we investigated the effects and phenotype of AzaC and AzadC exposure on the acute myeloid leukemia cell line MOLM-13. We found that while AzaC and AzadC share many effects on the cellular level, including decreased global DNA methylation, increased formation of DNA double-strand breaks, transcriptional downregulation of important oncogenes and similar changes on the proteome level, AzaC failed in contrast to AzadC to induce apoptosis efficiently in MOLM-13. The only cellular marker that correlated with this clear phenotypical outcome was the level of hydroxy-methyl-dC, an additional epigenetic mark that is placed by TET enzymes and repressed in cancer cells. Whereas AzadC increased hmdC substantially in MOLM-13, AzaC treatment did not result in any increase at all. This suggests that hmdC levels in cancer cells should be monitored as a response toward AzaC and AzadC and considered as a biomarker to judge whether AzaC or AzadC treatment leads to cell death in leukemic cells.
PXD034776	36090055	Drug affinity-responsive target stability unveils filamins as biological targets for artemetin, an anti-cancer flavonoid. 	Drug Affinity Responsive Target Stability unveils Filamins as biological targets for Artemetin, an anti-cancer flavonoid.	Anti-Cancer., Bioactive Natural Compounds, Cytoskeleton, Drug Affinity Responsive Target Stability	Artemetin is a valuable 5-hydroxy-3,6,7,3',4'-pentamethoxyflavone present in many different medicinal plants with very good oral bioavailability and drug-likeness values, owing to numerous bioactivities, such as anti-inflammatory and anti-cancer ones. Here, a multi-disciplinary plan has been settled and applied for identifying the artemetin target(s) to inspect its mechanism of action, based on drug affinity-responsive target stability and targeted limited proteolysis. Both approaches point to the disclosure of filamins A and B as direct artemetin targets in HeLa cell lysates, also giving detailed insights into the ligand/protein-binding sites. Interestingly, also 8-prenyl-artemetin, which is an artemetin more permeable semisynthetic analog, directly interacts with filamins A and B. Both compounds alter filamin conformation in living HeLa cells with an effect on cytoskeleton disassembly and on the disorganization of the F-actin filaments. Both the natural compound and its derivative are able to block cell migration, expectantly acting on tumor metastasis occurrence and development.
PXD035706	36090256	Protein disulfide isomerase A6 promotes the repair of injured nerve through interactions with spastin. 	Protein Disulfide Isomerase A6 Promotes Injured Nerve Repair through Interactions with Spastin	Nerve repair, PDIA6, Spastin, Spinal cord injur	The maintenance of appropriate endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis is critical to effective spinal cord injury (SCI) repair. In previous reports, protein disulfide isomerase A6 (PDIA6) demonstrated to serve as a reversible functional modulator of ER stress responses, while spastin can coordinate ER organization through the modulation of the dynamic microtubule network surrounding this organelle. While both PDIA6 and spastin are thus important regulators of the ER, whether they interact with one another for SCI repair still needs to be determined. Here a proteomics analysis identified PDIA6 as being related to SCI repair, and protein interaction mass spectrometry further confirmed the ability of PDIA6 and spastin to interact with one another. Pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays were further performed to validate and characterize the interactions between these two proteins. The RNAi-based knockdown of PDIA6 in COS-7 cells inhibited the activity of spastin-dependent microtubule severing. PDIA6 was also found to promote injured neuron repair, while spastin knockdown reversed this reparative activity. Together, these results thus confirm that PDIA6 and spastin function together as critical mediators of nerve repair, highlighting their potential value as validated targets for efforts to promote SCI repair.
PXD036159	36091008	Serum peptidome profiles immune response of COVID-19 Vaccine administration. 	Serum Peptidome Profiles Immune Response of COVID-19 Vaccine Administration	COVID-19, immune response, peptidome, serum	Background: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has caused significant loss of life and property. In response to the serious pandemic, recently developed vaccines against SARS-CoV-2 have been administrated to the public. Nevertheless, the research on human immunization response against COVID-19 vaccines is insufficient. Although much information associated with vaccine efficacy, safety and immunogenicity has been reported by pharmaceutical companies based on laboratory studies and clinical trials, vaccine evaluation needs to be extended further to better understand the effect of COVID-19 vaccines on human beings. Methods: We performed a comparative peptidome analysis on serum samples from 95 participants collected at four time points before and after receiving CoronaVac. The collected serum samples were analyzed by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) to profile the serum peptides, and also subjected to humoral and cellular immune response analyses to obtain typical immunogenicity information. Results: Significant difference in serum peptidome profiles by MALDI-TOF MS was observed after vaccination. By supervised statistical analysis, a total of 13 serum MALDI-TOF MS feature peaks were obtained on day 28 and day 42 of vaccination. The feature peaks were identified as component C1q receptor, CD59 glycoprotein, mannose-binding protein C, platelet basic protein, CD99 antigen, Leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein, integral membrane protein 2B, platelet factor 4 and hemoglobin subunits. Combining with immunogenicity analysis, the study provided evidence for the humoral and cellular immune responses activated by CoronaVac. Furthermore, we found that it is possible to distinguish neutralizing antibody (NAbs)-positive from NAbs-negative individuals after complete vaccination using the serum peptidome profiles by MALDI-TOF MS together with machine learning methods, including random forest (RF), partial least squares-discriminant analysis (PLS-DA), linear support vector machine (SVM) and logistic regression (LR). Conclusions: The study shows the promise of MALDI-TOF MS-based serum peptidome analysis for the assessment of immune responses activated by COVID-19 vaccination, and discovered a panel of serum peptides biomarkers for COVID-19 vaccination and for NAbs generation. The method developed in this study can help not only in the development of new vaccines, but also in the post-marketing evaluation of developed vaccines.
PXD033627	36091838	Therapeutic effect of modified zengye decoction on primary Sjogren's syndrome and its effect on plasma exosomal proteins. 	effect of chinese madicine on plasma exosomal proteins in Primary Sjogren's syndrome	plasma exosome	Background: Modified Zengye Decoction (MZD), a traditional Chinese medicine, is an effective treatment for patients with primary Sjoegren's syndrome (pSS). Purpose: To evaluate the efficacy of MZD and investigate its effect on plasma exosomal proteins. Methods: Eighteen pSS patients were treated with MZD for 2 weeks. The therapeutic effect was evaluated by observing the changes in clinical symptoms, laboratory parameters, and plasma cytokines before and after treatment. Then, the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the plasma exosomes before and after treatment were identified via label-free proteomics, while Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment were used to analyze the possible biological functions and signaling pathways involved in the exosomal DEPs. Results: MZD can effectively relieve the clinical symptoms of pSS patients, downregulate the plasma IgG and IgM levels, and inhibit plasma cytokine production. Thirteen DEPs were identified via label-free proteomics in the plasma exosomes before and after MZD treatment, of which 12 were downregulated proteins. GO analysis showed that these downregulated proteins were mainly related to the insulin response involved in dryness symptoms and the Gram-negative bacterial defense response and proteoglycan binding involved in infection. KEGG enrichment analysis showed that these downregulated proteins were primarily associated with the porphyrin metabolism involved in oteoarthrosis and the NF-kappaB and TLR4 pathways involved in infection. Conclusion: MZD can effectively alleviate SS symptoms, while its mechanism may be associated with the reduced protein expression in insulin response, porphyrin metabolism, and the TLR4/NF-kappaB pathway.
PXD030221	36093432	Human amniotic epithelial cell-derived extracellular vesicles provide an extracellular matrix-based microenvironment for corneal injury repair. 	Proteomics analysis of human amniotic epithelial cell-derived extracellular vesicles	extracellular vesicles, human amniotic epithelial cell	To study the biological functions and applications of human amniotic epithelial cell-derived extracellular vesicles (hAEC-EVs), the cargos of hAEC-EVs were analyzed using miRNA sequencing and proteomics analysis. The hAECs and hAEC-EVs in this study had specific characteristics. Multi-omics analyses showed that extracellular matrix (ECM) reorganization, inhibition of excessive myofibroblasts, and promotion of target cell adhesion to the ECM were their primary functions. We evaluated the application of hAEC-EVs for corneal alkali burn healing in rabbits and elucidated the fundamental mechanisms. Slit-lamp images revealed that corneal alkali burns induced central epithelial loss, stromal haze, iris, and pupil obscurity in rabbits. Slit-lamp examination and histological findings indicated that hAEC-EVs facilitated re-epithelialization of the cornea after alkali burns, reduced scar formation and promoted the restoration of corneal tissue transparency. Significantly fewer alpha-SMA-positive myofibroblasts were observed in the hAEC-EV-treated group than the PBS group. HAEC-EVs effectively promoted the proliferation and migration of hCECs and hCSCs in vitro and activated the focal adhesion signaling pathway. We demonstrated that hAEC-EVs were excellent cell-free candidates for the treatment of ECM lesion-based diseases, including corneal alkali burns. HAEC-EVs promoted ECM reorganization and cell adhesion of target tissues or cells via orderly activation of the focal adhesion signaling pathway.
PXD025020	36094045	A Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Time-of-Flight Assay Identifies Nilotinib as an Inhibitor of Inflammation in Acute Myeloid Leukemia. 	A MALDI-TOF assay identifies nilotinib as an inhibitor of inflammation	Drug discovery, MALDI-TOF, inhibitors of inflammation, nilotinib, temperature proteome profiling	Inflammatory responses are important in cancer, particularly in the context of monocyte-rich aggressive myeloid neoplasm. We developed a label-free cellular phenotypic drug discovery assay to identify anti-inflammatory drugs in human monocytes derived from acute myeloid leukemia (AML), by tracking several features ionizing from only 2500 cells using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry. A proof-of-concept screen showed that the BCR-ABL inhibitor nilotinib, but not the structurally similar imatinib, blocks inflammatory responses. In order to identify the cellular (off-)targets of nilotinib, we performed thermal proteome profiling (TPP). Unlike imatinib, nilotinib and other later-generation BCR-ABL inhibitors bind to p38alpha and inhibit the p38alpha-MK2/3 signaling axis, which suppressed pro-inflammatory cytokine expression, cell adhesion, and innate immunity markers in activated monocytes derived from AML. Thus, our study provides a tool for the discovery of new anti-inflammatory drugs, which could contribute to the treatment of inflammation in myeloid neoplasms and other diseases.
PXD025558	36094925	Proteomic analysis of rat colonic mucosa following acupuncture treatment for irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea. 	Proteomic Analysis of rattus norvegicus colonic mucosa following acupuncture treatment for irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea by label-free LC-MS/MS	Rat, acupuncture, colonic mucosa	To investigate the molecular pathological mechanisms of irritable bowel syndrome with diarrhea (IBS-D) and elucidate the effects of acupuncture on IBS-D colonic mucosa protein abundance in rats, a label-free high-throughput liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS)-based proteomics analysis was used to survey the global changes of colonic mucosa proteins between different groups. Sixteen Sprague-Dawley (SD) male rats were randomly divided into four groups: the control group (C); the IBS-D model group (M); the syndrome differentiation acupuncture group (SD) and the traditional acupuncture group (T). IBS-D model rats were obtained using the CAS (chronic acute combining stress model) method. Comparative bioinformatics analysis of the proteomic data was analyzed using MaxQuant software, Perseus software, online tools DAVID, VENNY and STRING. Functional enrichment and network analyses revealed a close relationship between IBS-D and several biological processes including energy metabolism, muscular excitation/contraction, and both traditional acupuncture and syndrome differentiation acupuncture can reverse the impairments of normal energy metabolism. Moreover, the syndrome differentiation acupuncture can regulate the protein cluster relating inflammation, wound repair and cell protection against oxidative stress which is associated with acupuncture analgesic effect. Differentially expressed proteins Atp5a1 and Bpnt1 were selected as representative proteins and subjected to western blotting. In conclusion, our study provides further insight into the pathological and molecular mechanisms of IBS-D and acupuncture treatments, and serves as an experimental basis for clinical applications.
PXD022184	36095118	The KdmB-EcoA-RpdA-SntB chromatin complex binds regulatory genes and coordinates fungal development with mycotoxin synthesis. 	The KdmB-EcoA-RpdA-SntB chromatin complex binds regulatory genes and coordinates fungal development with mycotoxin synthesis	A. nidulans	Chromatin complexes control a vast number of epigenetic developmental processes. Filamentous fungi present an important clade of microbes with poor understanding of underlying epigenetic mechanisms. Here, we describe a chromatin binding complex in the fungus Aspergillus nidulans composing of a H3K4 histone demethylase KdmB, a cohesin acetyltransferase (EcoA), a histone deacetylase (RpdA) and a histone reader/E3 ligase protein (SntB). In vitro and in vivo evidence demonstrate that this KERS complex is assembled from the EcoA-KdmB and SntB-RpdA heterodimers. KdmB and SntB play opposing roles in regulating the cellular levels and stability of EcoA, as KdmB prevents SntB-mediated degradation of EcoA. The KERS complex is recruited to transcription initiation start sites at active core promoters exerting promoter-specific transcriptional effects. Interestingly, deletion of any one of the KERS subunits results in a common negative effect on morphogenesis and production of secondary metabolites, molecules important for niche securement in filamentous fungi. Consequently, the entire mycotoxin sterigmatocystin gene cluster is downregulated and asexual development is reduced in the four KERS mutants. The elucidation of the recruitment of epigenetic regulators to chromatin via the KERS complex provides the first mechanistic, chromatin-based understanding of how development is connected with small molecule synthesis in fungi.
PXD035068	36095193	A common vesicle proteome drives fungal biofilm development. 	Vesicle proteomics during fungal biofilm development in Candida	Candida, Extracellular vesicles, biofilm	Extracellular vesicles mediate community interactions among cells ranging from unicellular microbes to complex vertebrates. Extracellular vesicles of the fungal pathogen Candida albicans are vital for biofilm communities to produce matrix, which confers environmental protection and modulates community dispersion. Infections are increasingly due to diverse Candida species, such as the emerging pathogen Candida auris, as well as mixed Candida communities. Here, we define the composition and function of biofilm-associated vesicles among five species across the Candida genus. We find similarities in vesicle size and release over the biofilm lifespan. Whereas overall cargo proteomes differ dramatically among species, a group of 36 common proteins is enriched for orthologs of C. albicans biofilm mediators. To understand the function of this set of proteins, we asked whether mutants in select components were important for key biofilm processes, including drug tolerance and dispersion. We found that the majority of these cargo components impact one or both biofilm processes across all five species. Exogenous delivery of wild-type vesicle cargo returned mutant phenotypes toward wild type. To assess the impact of vesicle cargo on interspecies interactions, we performed cross-species vesicle addition and observed functional complementation for both biofilm phenotypes. We explored the biologic relevance of this cross-species biofilm interaction in mixed species and mutant studies examining the drug-resistance phenotype. We found a majority of biofilm interactions among species restored the community's wild-type behavior. Our studies indicate that vesicles influence the development of protective monomicrobial and mixed microbial biofilm communities.
PXD030446	36096433	Effect of dietary Spirulina (Arthrospira platensis) on the intestinal function of post-weaned piglet: An approach combining proteomics, metabolomics and histological studies. 	The effect of dietary Spirulina microalga on the intestinal function of the post-weaned piglet	Spirulina, intestine, label-based proteomics, piglets	The effect of dietary Spirulina (Arthrospira platensis) and CAZyme supplementation was assessed on the gut of weaned piglets, using an integrated NMR-metabolomics approach combined with Tandem Mass Tag labelled proteomics. Thirty weaned male piglets were assigned to one of the three following diets (n = 10): cereal and soybean meal basal diet (Control), basal diet with 10% Spirulina inclusion (SP) and SP diet supplemented with 0.01% lysozyme (SP + L). The experiment lasted 4 weeks and, upon slaughter, small intestine samples were collected for histological, metabolomic and proteomic analysis. No significant differences were found for the histology and metabolomics analysis between the three experimental groups. Lactate, glutamate, glycine and myo-inositol were the most abundant metabolites. Proteomics results showed 1502 proteins identified in the intestine tissue. A total of 23, 78, 27 differentially abundant proteins were detected respectively for the SP vs. Control, SP + L vs. Control and SP + L vs. SP comparisons. The incorporation of Spirulina and supplementation of lysozyme in the piglet's diets is associated to intestinal proteomic changes. These include increased protein synthesis and abundance of contractile apparatus proteins, related with increased nutrient availability, which has beneficial (increased glucose uptake) and detrimental (increased digesta viscosity) metabolic effects. SIGNIFICANCE: The use of conventional feedstuffs becomes increasingly prohibitive due to its environmental toll. To increase the sustainability of the livestock sector, novel feedstuffs such as microalgae need to be considered. However, its recalcitrant cell wall has antinutritional effects that can inhibit high dietary inclusion levels. The supplementation with CAZymes is a possible solution to this issue. The small intestine is a central piece in monogastric digestion and of particular importance for the weaned piglet. Studying the effect of dietary Spirulina and CAZyme supplementation on its histomorphology, metabolome and proteome allows studying relevant physiological adaptations to these diets.
PXD030480	36096799	Comparative analyses of vertebrate CPEB proteins define two subfamilies with coordinated yet distinct functions in post-transcriptional gene regulation. 	Comparative analyses of vertebrate CPEB-family of proteins define two sub-families with distinct, but coordinated, functions in post-transcriptional regulation of gene expressionComparative analyses of vertebrate CPEB-family of proteins define two sub-fam	3'UTR, BioID, CCR4-NOT complex, CPEB, deadenylation, mRNA translation, phase-separation, phosphorylation	BACKGROUND: Vertebrate CPEB proteins bind mRNAs at cytoplasmic polyadenylation elements (CPEs) in their 3' UTRs, leading to cytoplasmic changes in their poly(A) tail lengths; this can promote translational repression or activation of the mRNA. However, neither the regulation nor the mechanisms of action of the CPEB family per se have been systematically addressed to date. RESULTS: Based on a comparative analysis of the four vertebrate CPEBs, we determine their differential regulation by phosphorylation, the composition and properties of their supramolecular assemblies, and their target mRNAs. We show that all four CPEBs are able to recruit the CCR4-NOT deadenylation complex to repress the translation. However, their regulation, mechanism of action, and target mRNAs define two subfamilies. Thus, CPEB1 forms ribonucleoprotein complexes that are remodeled upon a single phosphorylation event and are associated with mRNAs containing canonical CPEs. CPEB2-4 are regulated by multiple proline-directed phosphorylations that control their liquid-liquid phase separation. CPEB2-4 mRNA targets include CPEB1-bound transcripts, with canonical CPEs, but also a specific subset of mRNAs with non-canonical CPEs. CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, these results show how, globally, the CPEB family of proteins is able to integrate cellular cues to generate a fine-tuned adaptive response in gene expression regulation through the coordinated actions of all four members.
PXD032766	36097051	Integrated multi-omics analysis of adverse cardiac remodeling and metabolic inflexibility upon ErbB2 and ERRalpha deficiency. 	Integrated multi-omics analysis of adverse cardiac remodelling and metabolic inflexibility upon ErbB2 and ERRâº deficiency	ErbB2, cardiac, dilated cardiomyopathy, estrogen related receptor, heart, phosphoproteome	Functional oncogenic links between ErbB2 and ERRalpha in HER2+ breast cancer patients support a therapeutic benefit of co-targeted therapies. However, ErbB2 and ERRalpha also play key roles in heart physiology, and this approach could pose a potential liability to cardiovascular health. Herein, using integrated phosphoproteomic, transcriptomic and metabolic profiling, we uncovered molecular mechanisms associated with the adverse remodeling of cardiac functions in mice with combined attenuation of ErbB2 and ERRalpha activity. Genetic disruption of both effectors results in profound effects on cardiomyocyte architecture, inflammatory response and metabolism, the latter leading to a decrease in fatty acyl-carnitine species further increasing the reliance on glucose as a metabolic fuel, a hallmark of failing hearts. Furthermore, integrated omics signatures of ERRalpha loss-of-function and doxorubicin treatment exhibit common features of chemotherapeutic cardiotoxicity. These findings thus reveal potential cardiovascular risks in discrete combination therapies in the treatment of breast and other cancers.
PXD032981	36097143	Integrated proteome and acetylome analyses unveil protein features of gestational diabetes mellitus and preeclampsia. 	Integrating multi-omics analyses unveil protein features of gestational diabetes mellitus and preeclampsia	Gestational diabetes mellitus, lysine acetylation, oxidative stress, preeclampsia	Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) and preeclampsia (PE) are associated with maternal and infant health. Although the pathogenesis of PE and GDM remains controversial, oxidative stress is involved in the underlying pathology of GDM and PE. Protein lysine acetylation (Kac) plays an important regulatory role in biological processes. There is little data regarding the association of the maternal acetylome with GDM and PE. This study aimed to assess the potential value of the proteome and acetylome for GDM and PE. In our study, we included placental tissues from healthy individuals (n = 6), GDM patients (n = 6), and PE patients (n = 6) to perform 4D-label free quantification proteomics analysis and PRM analysis. We identified 22 significantly regulated proteins and 192 significantly regulated acetylated proteins between the GDM and PE groups. Furthermore, 192 significantly regulated acetylated proteins were mainly enriched in endoplasmic reticulum stress (ERS) and ferroptosis pathways. Seventeen acetylated sites in these two pathways were verified by PRM analysis. Our comprehensive analysis revealed key features of GDM/PE-significantly regulated acetylated proteins in the placentas from GDM and PE. The results of signaling pathway analysis focused on ERS and ferroptosis. These findings may help explore the underlying pathology, new biomarkers, and therapeutic targets of GDM and PE.
PXD035850	36097154	Polyvinyl chloride degradation by a bacterium isolated from the gut of insect larvae. 	Protein mass spectrometry data of Klebsiella sp.	Bacteria protein, Extracellular, Intracellular	Evidence for microbial degradation of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) has previously been reported, but little is known about the degrading strains and enzymes. Here, we isolate a PVC-degrading bacterium from the gut of insect larvae and shed light on the PVC degradation pathway using a multi-omic approach. We show that the larvae of an insect pest, Spodoptera frugiperda, can survive by feeding on PVC film, and this is associated with enrichment of Enterococcus, Klebsiella and other bacteria in the larva's gut microbiota. A bacterial strain isolated from the larval intestine (Klebsiella sp. EMBL-1) is able to depolymerize and utilize PVC as sole energy source. We use genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analyses to identify genes and proteins potentially involved in PVC degradation (e.g., catalase-peroxidase, dehalogenases, enolase, aldehyde dehydrogenase and oxygenase), and propose a PVC biodegradation pathway. Furthermore, enzymatic assays using the purified catalase-peroxidase support a role in PVC depolymerization.
PXD029719	36097178	Strategies to inhibit FGFR4 V550L-driven rhabdomyosarcoma. 	Strategies to inhibit FGFR4 V550L-driven rhabdomyosarcoma	FGFR4, V550L, rhabdomyosarcoma	BACKGROUND: Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) is a paediatric cancer driven either by fusion proteins (e.g., PAX3-FOXO1) or by mutations in key signalling molecules (e.g., RAS or FGFR4). Despite the latter providing opportunities for precision medicine approaches in RMS, there are currently no such treatments implemented in the clinic. METHODS: We evaluated biologic properties and targeting strategies for the FGFR4 V550L activating mutation in RMS559 cells, which have a high allelic fraction of this mutation and are oncogenically dependent on FGFR4 signalling. Signalling and trafficking of FGFR4 V550L were characterised by confocal microscopy and proteomics. Drug effects were determined by live-cell imaging, MTS assay, and in a mouse model. RESULTS: Among recently developed FGFR4-specific inhibitors, FGF401 inhibited FGFR4 V550L-dependent signalling and cell proliferation at low nanomolar concentrations. Two other FGFR4 inhibitors, BLU9931 and H3B6527, lacked potent activity against FGFR4 V550L. Alternate targeting strategies were identified by RMS559 phosphoproteomic analyses, demonstrating that RAS/MAPK and PI3K/AKT are essential druggable pathways downstream of FGFR4 V550L. Furthermore, we found that FGFR4 V550L is HSP90-dependent, and HSP90 inhibitors efficiently impeded RMS559 proliferation. In a RMS559 mouse xenograft model, the pan-FGFR inhibitor, LY2874455, did not efficiently inhibit growth, whereas FGF401 potently abrogated growth. CONCLUSIONS: Our results pave the way for precision medicine approaches against FGFR4 V550L-driven RMS.
PXD032098	36097293	Visualizing maturation factor extraction from the nascent ribosome by the AAA-ATPase Drg1. 	Structure of the AAA-ATPase Drg1 during extraction of Rlp24 from pre-60S particles	AAA-ATPases, Ribosome biogenesis, large ribosomal subunit, single particle cryo-EM, substrate recognition, substrate translocation mechanism	The AAA-ATPase Drg1 is a key factor in eukaryotic ribosome biogenesis that initiates cytoplasmic maturation of the large ribosomal subunit. Drg1 releases the shuttling maturation factor Rlp24 from pre-60S particles shortly after nuclear export, a strict requirement for downstream maturation. The molecular mechanism of release remained elusive. Here, we report a series of cryo-EM structures that captured the extraction of Rlp24 from pre-60S particles by Saccharomyces cerevisiae Drg1. These structures reveal that Arx1 and the eukaryote-specific rRNA expansion segment ES27 form a joint docking platform that positions Drg1 for efficient extraction of Rlp24 from the pre-ribosome. The tips of the Drg1 N domains thereby guide the Rlp24 C terminus into the central pore of the Drg1 hexamer, enabling extraction by a hand-over-hand translocation mechanism. Our results uncover substrate recognition and processing by Drg1 step by step and provide a comprehensive mechanistic picture of the conserved modus operandi of AAA-ATPases.
PXD031384	36097295	Selective inhibitors of JAK1 targeting an isoform-restricted allosteric cysteine. 	Selective inhibitors of JAK1 targeting a subtype-restricted allosteric cysteine	ABPP, JAK1 inhibitor, PBMC, allosteric, cysteine, kinase, splenocyte	The Janus tyrosine kinase (JAK) family of non-receptor tyrosine kinases includes four isoforms (JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, and TYK2) and is responsible for signal transduction downstream of diverse cytokine receptors. JAK inhibitors have emerged as important therapies for immun(onc)ological disorders, but their use is limited by undesirable side effects presumed to arise from poor isoform selectivity, a common challenge for inhibitors targeting the ATP-binding pocket of kinases. Here we describe the chemical proteomic discovery of a druggable allosteric cysteine present in the non-catalytic pseudokinase domain of JAK1 (C817) and TYK2 (C838), but absent from JAK2 or JAK3. Electrophilic compounds selectively engaging this site block JAK1-dependent trans-phosphorylation and cytokine signaling, while appearing to act largely as 'silent' ligands for TYK2. Importantly, the allosteric JAK1 inhibitors do not impair JAK2-dependent cytokine signaling and are inactive in cells expressing a C817A JAK1 mutant. Our findings thus reveal an allosteric approach for inhibiting JAK1 with unprecedented isoform selectivity.
PXD034364	36102038	N-glycoproteomics reveals distinct glycosylation alterations in NGLY1-deficient patient-derived dermal fibroblasts. 	N-glycoproteomics and proteomics in NGLY1 deficient patient-derived dermal fibroblasts	Fibroblasts, NGLY1, congenital disorder of deglycosylation, congenital disorder of glycosylation, glycoproteomics	Congenital disorders of glycosylation are genetic disorders that occur due to defects in protein and lipid glycosylation pathways. A deficiency of N-glycanase 1, encoded by the NGLY1 gene, results in a congenital disorder of deglycosylation. The NGLY1 enzyme is mainly involved in cleaving N-glycans from misfolded, retro-translocated glycoproteins in the cytosol from the endoplasmic reticulum before their proteasomal degradation or activation. Despite the essential role of NGLY1 in deglycosylation pathways, the exact consequences of NGLY1 deficiency on global cellular protein glycosylation have not yet been investigated. We undertook a multiplexed tandem mass tags-labeling-based quantitative glycoproteomics and proteomics analysis of fibroblasts from NGLY1-deficient individuals carrying different biallelic pathogenic variants in NGLY1. This quantitative mass spectrometric analysis detected 8041 proteins and defined a proteomic signature of differential expression across affected individuals and controls. Proteins that showed significant differential expression included phospholipid phosphatase 3, stromal cell-derived factor 1, collagen alpha-1 (IV) chain, hyaluronan and proteoglycan link protein 1, and thrombospondin-1. We further detected a total of 3255 N-glycopeptides derived from 550 glycosylation sites of 407 glycoproteins by multiplexed N-glycoproteomics. Several extracellular matrix glycoproteins and adhesion molecules showed altered abundance of N-glycopeptides. Overall, we observed distinct alterations in specific glycoproteins, but our data revealed no global accumulation of glycopeptides in the patient-derived fibroblasts, despite the genetic defect in NGLY1. Our findings highlight new molecular and system-level insights for understanding NGLY1-CDDG.
PXD023960	36102188	The Amino Acid Homoarginine Inhibits Atherogenesis by Modulating T-Cell Function. 	The amino acid homoarginine inhibits atherogenesis by modulating T-cell function	Atherosclerosis, T cells, actin cytoskeleton, amino acids, homoarginine	BACKGROUND: Amino acid metabolism is crucial for inflammatory processes during atherogenesis. The endogenous amino acid homoarginine is a robust biomarker for cardiovascular outcome and mortality with high levels being protective. However, the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. We investigated the effect of homoarginine supplementation on atherosclerotic plaque development with a particular focus on inflammation. METHODS: Female ApoE-deficient mice were supplemented with homoarginine (14 mg/L) in drinking water starting 2 weeks before and continuing throughout a 6-week period of Western-type diet feeding. Control mice received normal drinking water. Immunohistochemistry and flow cytometry were used for plaque- and immunological phenotyping. T cells were characterized using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, by functional in vitro approaches, for example, proliferation and migration/chemotaxis assays as well as by super-resolution microscopy. RESULTS: Homoarginine supplementation led to a 2-fold increase in circulating homoarginine concentrations. Homoarginine-treated mice exhibited reduced atherosclerosis in the aortic root and brachiocephalic trunk. A substantial decrease in CD3(+) T cells in the atherosclerotic lesions suggested a T-cell-related effect of homoarginine supplementation, which was mainly attributed to CD4(+) T cells. Macrophages, dendritic cells, and B cells were not affected. CD4(+) T-cell proteomics and subsequent pathway analysis together with in vitro studies demonstrated that homoarginine profoundly modulated the spatial organization of the T-cell actin cytoskeleton and increased filopodia formation via inhibition of Myh9 (myosin heavy chain 9). Further mechanistic studies revealed an inhibition of T-cell proliferation as well as a striking impairment of the migratory capacities of T cells in response to relevant chemokines by homoarginine, all of which likely contribute to its atheroprotective effects. CONCLUSIONS: Our study unravels a novel mechanism by which the amino acid homoarginine reduces atherosclerosis, establishing that homoarginine modulates the T-cell cytoskeleton and thereby mitigates T-cell functions important during atherogenesis. These findings provide a molecular explanation for the beneficial effects of homoarginine in atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.
PXD027290	36103151	Microscopic and biochemical monitoring of endosomal trafficking and extracellular vesicle secretion in an endogenous in vivo model. 	Microscopic and biochemical monitoring of endosomal trafficking and extracellular vesicle secretion in an endogenous in vivo model	Drosophila, Rab11, Rab35, Tsp96F, exosomes, fat body, hemolymph, intercellular communication	Extracellular vesicle (EV) secretion enables cell-cell communication in multicellular organisms. During development, EV secretion and the specific loading of signalling factors in EVs contributes to organ development and tissue differentiation. Here, we present an in vivo model to study EV secretion using the fat body and the haemolymph of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. The system makes use of tissue-specific EV labelling and is amenable to genetic modification by RNAi. This allows the unique combination of microscopic visualisation of EVs in different organs and quantitative biochemical purification to study how EVs are generated within the cells and which factors regulate their secretion in vivo. Characterisation of the system revealed that secretion of EVs from the fat body is mainly regulated by Rab11 and Rab35, highlighting the importance of recycling Rab GTPase family members for EV secretion. We furthermore discovered a so far unknown function of Rab14 along with the kinesin Klp98A in EV biogenesis and secretion.
PXD036044	36103633	S100A8/A9, an Upregulated Host Factor in BK Virus Infection after Kidney Transplantation, Is Associated with Allograft Function Impairment. 	Proteomic  data from BKV-infected recipients of kidney transplantation	BKV, kidney transplantation	BK virus (BKV) is one of the most common pathogens in post-transplantation infections. For kidney transplantation, BKV infection results in the impairment of allograft function and thus increases the risk of allograft loss. However, clinical evaluation of the prognosis of BKV-associated allograft impairment is difficult. In the present study, differential plasma proteins were screened using proteomic methods from ten patients with a transition from BKV-negative to BKV activation. We identified 12 differentially expressed proteins, and S100A8 and S100A9 were the top two upregulated proteins. Data from a cross-sectional study with 66 BKV-negative and 66 BKV-positive recipients of renal transplantation indicated that plasma S100A8/A9 was upregulated in BKV-infected recipients. Plasma S100A8/A9 positively correlated with the 1 month creatinine increase (rho = 0.499, P = 0.021) and negatively correlated with the 1 month estimated glomerular filtration rate change (rho = -0.618, P = 0.003) in recipients with BK viremia. Using least absolute shrinkage and selection operator regression models, we found that S100A8/A9 was an independent risk factor for the decrease in allograft function after BKV infection. In conclusion, S100A8/A9 is a potential host biomarker for the clinical evaluation of BKV-associated allograft function impairment in kidney transplantation.
PXD028404	36103635	An Integrated Proteomic Strategy to Identify SHP2 Substrates. 	Systematic Identification of SHP2 Phosphatase Substrates	LC-MS, Phosphoproteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, SHP2, tyrosine phosphatase substrates	Protein phosphatases play an essential role in normal cell physiology and the development of diseases such as cancer. The innate challenges associated with studying protein phosphatases have limited our understanding of their substrates, molecular mechanisms, and unique functions within highly coordinated networks. Here, we introduce a novel strategy using substrate-trapping mutants coupled with quantitative proteomics methods to identify physiological substrates of Src homology 2 containing protein tyrosine phosphatase 2 (SHP2) in a high-throughput manner. The technique integrates three parallel mass spectrometry-based proteomics experiments, including affinity isolation of substrate-trapping mutant complex using wild-type and SHP2 KO cells, in vivo global quantitative phosphoproteomics, and in vitro phosphatase reaction. We confidently identified 18 direct substrates of SHP2 in the epidermal growth factor receptor signaling pathways, including both known and novel SHP2 substrates. Docking protein 1 was further validated using biochemical assays as a novel SHP2 substrate, providing a mechanism for SHP2-mediated Ras activation. This advanced workflow improves the systemic identification of direct substrates of protein phosphatases, facilitating our understanding of the equally important roles of protein phosphatases in cellular signaling.
PXD031784	36103879	Proteomic and functional characterization of intra-tumor heterogeneity in human endometrial cancer. 	Proteomic and functional characterization of intra-tumor heterogeneity in human endometrial cancer.	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Endometrial Cancer, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP)	Endometrial cancer is one of the most frequently diagnosed gynecological cancers worldwide, and its prevalence has increased by more than 50% over the last two decades. Despite the understanding of the major signaling pathways driving the growth and metastasis of endometrial cancer, clinical trials targeting these signals have reported poor outcomes. The heterogeneous nature of endometrial cancer is suspected to be one of the key reasons for the failure of targeted therapies. In this study, we perform a sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra (SWATH)-based comparative proteomic analysis of 63 tumor biopsies collected from 20 patients and define differences in protein signature in multiple regions of the same tumor. We develop organoids from multiple biopsies collected from the same tumor and show that organoids capture heterogeneity in endometrial cancer growth. Overall, using quantitative proteomics and patient-derived organoids, we define the heterogeneous nature of endometrial cancer within a patient's tumor.
PXD033976	36104325	In situ analysis of nanoparticle soft corona and dynamic evolution. 	In situ Analysis of Nanoparticle Soft Corona and Dynamic Evolution	mouse serum, protein corona	How soft corona, the protein corona's outer layer, contributes to biological identity of nanomaterials is largely because capturing protein composition of the soft corona in situ remains challenging. We herein develop an in situ Fishing method that can monitor the dynamic formation of protein corona on ultra-small chiral Cu2S nanoparticles (NPs) allowing us to directly separate and identify the corona protein composition. Our method detects spatiotemporal processes in the evolution of hard and soft coronas on chiral NPs, revealing subtle differences in NP - protein interactions even within several minutes. This study highlights the importance of in situ and dynamic analysis of soft/hard corona, provides insights into the role of soft corona in mediating biological responses of NPs, and offers a universal strategy to characterize soft corona to guide the rational design of biomedical nanomaterials.
PXD034075	36105101	Serum differential proteomic profiling of patients with isolated methylmalonic acidemia by iTRAQ. 	Serum differential proteomic profiling of patients with isolated methylmalonic acidemia by iTRAQ	Methylmalonic acidemia, serum	Isolated methylmalonic acidemia (MMA) is an inherited organic acid metabolic disorder in an autosomal recessive manner, caused by mutations in the methylmalonyl coenzyme A mutase gene, and the isolated MMA patients often suffer from multi-organ damage. The present study aimed to profile the differential proteome of serum between isolated MAA patients and healthy control. The in vivo proteome of isolated MAA patients and healthy subjects was detected by an isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ). A total of 94 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified between MMA patients and healthy control, including 58 upregulated and 36 downregulated DEPs in MMA patients. Among them, the most significantly upregulated proteins were CRP and immunoglobulins, and the top five most significantly downregulated proteins were all different types of immunoglobulins in MMA patients. GO analysis showed that these DEPs were mainly enriched in immune-related function and membrane protein-related function. KEGG revealed that these DEPs were mainly enriched in lysosome and cholesterol metabolism pathways. Also, these DEPs were predicted to contribute to lipid metabolic diseases. We addressed the proteomes of isolated MMA patients and identified DEPs. Our study expands our current understanding of MMA, and the DEPs could be valuable for designing alternative therapies to alleviate MMA symptoms.
PXD035891	36105595	Activity-based protein profiling of human and plasmodium serine hydrolases and interrogation of potential antimalarial targets. 	Activity-Based Protein Profiling of Human and Plasmodium Serine Hydrolases and Interrogation of Potential Antimalarial Targets	ABP, ABPP, Plasmodium falciparum, chemical proteomics, fluorophosphonate, malaria, serine hydrolase	Malaria remains a global health issue requiring the identification of novel therapeutic targets to combat drug resistance. Metabolic serine hydrolases are druggable enzymes playing essential roles in lipid metabolism. However, very few have been investigated in malaria-causing parasites. Here, we used fluorophosphonate broad-spectrum activity-based probes and quantitative chemical proteomics to annotate and profile the activity of more than half of predicted serine hydrolases in P. falciparum across the erythrocytic cycle. Using conditional genetics, we demonstrate that the activities of four serine hydrolases, previously annotated as essential (or important) in genetic screens, are actually dispensable for parasite replication. Of importance, we also identified eight human serine hydrolases that are specifically activated at different developmental stages. Chemical inhibition of two of them blocks parasite replication. This strongly suggests that parasites co-opt the activity of host enzymes and that this opens a new drug development strategy against which the parasites are less likely to develop resistance.
PXD034458	36105703	Absolute and relative quantitation of amylase/trypsin-inhibitors by LC-MS/MS from wheat lines obtained by CRISPR-Cas9 and RNAi. 	Quantitation of ATIs in Wheat by LC-MS/MS - LFQ Orbitrap	Amylase/Trypsin Inhibitor, CRSIPR-Cas9, RNAi, Wheat	Quantitation of wheat proteins is still a challenge, especially regarding amylase/trypsin-inhibitors (ATIs). A selection of ATIs was silenced in the common wheat cultivar Bobwhite and durum wheat cultivar Svevo by RNAi and gene editing, respectively, in order to reduce the amounts of ATIs. The controls and silenced lines were analyzed after digestion to peptides by LC-MS/MS with different approaches to evaluate changes in composition of ATIs. First, a targeted method with stable isotope dilution assay (SIDA) using labeled peptides as internal standards was applied. Additionally, four different approaches for relative quantitation were conducted, in detail, iTRAQ labeled and label free quantitation (LFQ) combined with data dependent acquisition (DDA) and data independent acquisition (DIA). Quantitation was performed manually (Skyline and MASCOT) and with different proteomics software tools (PLGS, MaxQuant, and PEAKS X Pro). To characterize the wheat proteins on protein level, complementary techniques as high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and gel electrophoresis were performed. The targeted approach with SIDA was able to quantitate all ATIs, even at low levels, but an optimized extraction is necessary. The labeled iTRAQ approach revealed an indistinct performance. LFQ with low resolution equipment (IonTrap) showed similar results for major ATIs, but low abundance ATIs as CM1, were not detectable. DDA measurements with an Orbitrap system and evaluation using MaxQuant showed that the relative quantitation was dependent on the wheat species. The combination of manual curation of the MaxQuant search with Skyline revealed a very good performance. The DIA approach with analytical flow found similar results compared to absolute quantitation except for some minor ATIs, which were not detected. Comparison of applied methods revealed that peptide selection is a crucial step for protein quantitation. Wheat proteomics faces challenges due to the high genetic complexity, the close relationship to other cereals and the incomplete, redundant protein database requiring sensitive, precise and accurate LC-MS/MS methods.
PXD029723	36107633	Glutamine prevents acute kidney injury by modulating oxidative stress and apoptosis in tubular epithelial cells. 	Glutamine attenuates renal ischemia-reperfusion injury and prevents acute kidney damage	acute kidney injury, apoptosis, glutamine, inflammation, mitochondrial respiration, neutrophil recruitment	Acute kidney injury (AKI) represents a common complication in critically ill patients that is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. In a murine AKI model induced by ischemia/reperfusion injury (IRI), we show that glutamine significantly decreases kidney damage and improves kidney function. We demonstrate that glutamine causes transcriptomic and proteomic reprogramming in murine renal tubular epithelial cells (TECs), resulting in decreased epithelial apoptosis, decreased neutrophil recruitment, and improved mitochondrial functionality and respiration provoked by an ameliorated oxidative phosphorylation. We identify the proteins glutamine gamma glutamyltransferase 2 (Tgm2) and apoptosis signal-regulating kinase (Ask1) as the major targets of glutamine in apoptotic signaling. Furthermore, the direct modulation of the Tgm2-HSP70 signalosome and reduced Ask1 activation resulted in decreased JNK activation, leading to diminished mitochondrial intrinsic apoptosis in TECs. Glutamine administration attenuated kidney damage in vivo during AKI and TEC viability in vitro under inflammatory or hypoxic conditions.
PXD030720	36107770	High-throughput identification of RNA localization elements in neuronal cells. 	High-throughput identification of RNA localization elements reveals a regulatory role for A/G rich sequences		Hundreds of RNAs are enriched in the projections of neuronal cells. For the vast majority of them, though, the sequence elements that regulate their localization are unknown. To identify RNA elements capable of directing transcripts to neurites, we deployed a massively parallel reporter assay that tested the localization regulatory ability of thousands of sequence fragments drawn from endogenous mouse 3' UTRs. We identified peaks of regulatory activity within several 3' UTRs and found that sequences derived from these peaks were both necessary and sufficient for RNA localization to neurites in mouse and human neuronal cells. The localization elements were enriched in adenosine and guanosine residues. They were at least tens to hundreds of nucleotides long as shortening of two identified elements led to significantly reduced activity. Using RNA affinity purification and mass spectrometry, we found that the RNA-binding protein Unk was associated with the localization elements. Depletion of Unk in cells reduced the ability of the elements to drive RNAs to neurites, indicating a functional requirement for Unk in their trafficking. These results provide a framework for the unbiased, high-throughput identification of RNA elements and mechanisms that govern transcript localization in neurons.
PXD033777	36108102	Evaluation of Variant-Specific Peptides for Detection of SARS-CoV-2 Variants of Concern. 	Proteotypic peptides for SARS-CoV-2 variant detection	Covid-19, LCMS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2	The SARS-CoV-2 omicron variant presented significant challenges to the global effort to counter the pandemic. SARS-CoV-2 is predicted to remain prevalent for the foreseeable future, making the ability to identify SARS-CoV-2 variants imperative in understanding and controlling the pandemic. The predominant variant discovery method, genome sequencing, is time-consuming, insensitive, and expensive. Ultraperformance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS) offers an exciting alternative detection modality provided that variant-containing peptide markers are sufficiently detectable from their tandem mass spectra (MS/MS). We have synthesized model tryptic peptides of SARS-CoV-2 variants alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and omicron and evaluated their signal intensity, HCD spectra, and reverse phase retention time. Detection limits of 781, 781, 65, and 65 amol are obtained for the molecular ions of the proteotypic peptides, beta (QIAPGQTGNIADYNYK), gamma (TQLPSAYTNSFTR), delta (VGGNYNYR), and omicron (TLVKQLSSK), from neat solutions. These detection limits are on par with the detection limits of a previously reported proteotypic peptide from the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, HTPINLVR. This study demonstrates the potential to differentiate SARS-CoV-2 variants through their proteotypic peptides with an approach that is broadly applicable across a wide range of pathogens.
PXD032350	36109170	In Vivo Prenylomic Profiling in the Brain of a Transgenic Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease Reveals Increased Prenylation of a Key Set of Proteins. 	In vivo prenylomic profiling in the brain of a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease reveals increased prenylation of a key set of proteins	Mice, altzhimers Disease, brain, prenylation, prenylomics	Dysregulation of protein prenylation has been implicated in many diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Prenylomic analysis, the combination of metabolic incorporation of an isoprenoid analogue (C15AlkOPP) into prenylated proteins with a bottom-up proteomic analysis, has allowed the identification of prenylated proteins in various cellular models. Here, transgenic AD mice were administered with C15AlkOPP through intracerebroventricular (ICV) infusion over 13 days. Using prenylomic analysis, 36 prenylated proteins were enriched in the brains of AD mice. Importantly, the prenylated forms of 15 proteins were consistently upregulated in AD mice compared to nontransgenic wild-type controls. These results highlight the power of this in vivo metabolic labeling approach to identify multiple post-translationally modified proteins that may serve as potential therapeutic targets for a disease that has proved refractory to treatment thus far. Moreover, this method should be applicable to many other types of protein modifications, significantly broadening its scope.
PXD035358	36109564	Induction of functional xeno-free MSCs from human iPSCs via a neural crest cell lineage. 	Quantitative protein profiling of conditioned medium cultured with various mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (MSCs)	Mesenchymal stem/stromal cell (MSC), conditioned medium, iPSC, mTRAQ	Mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (MSCs) are adult multipotent stem cells. Here, we induced MSCs from human induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) via a neural crest cell (NCC) lineage under xeno-free conditions and evaluated their in vivo functions. We modified a previous MSC induction method to work under xeno-free conditions. Bovine serum albumin-containing NCC induction medium and fetal bovine serum-containing MSC induction medium were replaced with xeno-free medium. Through our optimized method, iPSCs differentiated into MSCs with high efficiency. To evaluate their in vivo activities, we transplanted the xeno-free-induced MSCs (XF-iMSCs) into mouse models for bone and skeletal muscle regeneration and confirmed their regenerative potency. These XF-iMSCs mainly promoted the regeneration of surrounding host cells, suggesting that they secrete soluble factors into affected regions. We also found that the peroxidasin and IGF2 secreted by the XF-iMSCs partially contributed to myotube differentiation. These results suggest that XF-iMSCs are important for future applications in regenerative medicine.
PXD031816	36109645	Conoid extrusion regulates glideosome assembly to control motility and invasion in Apicomplexa. 	Conoid extrusion serves as gatekeeper for entry of glideosome components into the pellicular space to control motility and invasion in Apicomplexa	AlphaFold, Apicomplexa, F-actin, HDX-MS, Plasmodium berghei, Toxoplasma gondii, conoid extrusion, egress, invasion, micronemes, motility, preconoidal rings	Members of Apicomplexa are defined by apical cytoskeletal structures and secretory organelles, tailored for motility, invasion and egress. Gliding is powered by actomyosin-dependent rearward translocation of apically secreted transmembrane adhesins. In the human parasite Toxoplasma gondii, the conoid, composed of tubulin fibres and preconoidal rings (PCRs), is a dynamic organelle of undefined function. Here, using ultrastructure expansion microscopy, we established that PCRs serve as a hub for glideosome components including Formin1. We also identified components of the PCRs conserved in Apicomplexa, Pcr4 and Pcr5, that contain B-box zinc-finger domains, assemble in heterodimer and are essential for the formation of the structure. The fitness conferring Pcr6 tethers the PCRs to the cone of tubulin fibres. F-actin produced by Formin1 is used by Myosin H to generate the force for conoid extrusion which directs the flux of F-actin to the pellicular space, serving as gatekeeper to control parasite motility.
PXD036331	36110841	CRISPR/Cas9 based blockade of IL-10 signaling impairs lipid and tissue homeostasis to accelerate atherosclerosis. 	syrian hamster plasma FPLC data	hamster plasma FPLC IL10	Interleukin-10 (IL-10) is a widely recognized immunosuppressive factor. Although the concept that IL-10 executes an anti-inflammatory role is accepted, the relationship between IL-10 and atherosclerosis is still unclear, thus limiting the application of IL-10-based therapies for this disease. Emerging evidence suggests that IL-10 also plays a key role in energy metabolism and regulation of gut microbiota; however, whether IL-10 can affect atherosclerotic lesion development by integrating lipid and tissue homeostasis has not been investigated. In the present study, we developed a human-like hamster model deficient in IL-10 using CRISPR/Cas9 technology. Our results showed that loss of IL-10 changed the gut microbiota in hamsters on chow diet, leading to an increase in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) production and elevated concentration of LPS in plasma. These changes were associated with systemic inflammation, lipodystrophy, and dyslipidemia. Upon high cholesterol/high fat diet feeding, IL-10-deficient hamsters exhibited abnormal distribution of triglyceride and cholesterol in lipoprotein particles, impaired lipid transport in macrophages and aggravated atherosclerosis. These findings show that silencing IL-10 signaling in hamsters promotes atherosclerosis by affecting lipid and tissue homeostasis through a gut microbiota/adipose tissue/liver axis.
PXD033569	36110943	La protein regulates protein expression by binding with the mRNAs of target genes and participates the pathological process of ovarian cancer. 	La protein plays its RNA chaperone function by binding with the mRNAs of target genes and participates the pathological process of ovarian cancer	La protein, ovarian cancer, quantitative proteomics	Research on the mechanism and new targets of ovarian cancer is of great significance to reduce the high mortality and drug resistance of ovarian cancer. Human La protein has been found to be highly expressed in a variety of malignant tumors and plays a role in tumorigenesis and development through its RNA-binding function. However, its role and mechanism in ovarian cancer are not completely clear. The present study showed that La protein was highly expressed in serum and tissues of patients with ovarian cancer by ELISA and immunohistochemistry, and the high expression of La protein was associated with the increased degree of malignancy and poor prognosis by searching the KM plotter database. Interference of the La gene resulted in a significant decrease in the proliferation, migration, and invasion of ovarian cancer cells with growth block in the G1 phase and increasing apoptosis. By RNA binding protein immunoprecipitation, transcriptome sequencing, and proteomics, 14 downstream target genes were screened. The La protein might affect the protein expression of these 14 genes by binding with the mRNAs. Therefore, it played a role in the pathological process of ovarian cancer.
PXD034594	36111245	A comprehensive mouse brain acetylome-the cellular-specific distribution of acetylated brain proteins. 	Profiling of mouse brain acetylome and proteome	Brain, acetylome	Nepsilon-lysine acetylation is a reversible posttranslational modification (PTM) involved in multiple physiological functions. Genetic and animal studies have documented the critical roles of protein acetylation in brain development, functions, and various neurological disorders. However, the underlying cellular and molecular mechanism are still partially understood. Here, we profiled and characterized the mouse brain acetylome and investigated the cellular distribution of acetylated brain proteins. We identified 1,818 acetylated proteins, including 5,196 acetylation modification sites, using a modified workflow comprising filter-aided sample preparation (FSAP), acetylated peptides enrichment, and MS analysis without pre- or post-fraction. Bioinformatics analysis indicated these acetylated mouse brain proteins were mainly located in the myelin sheath, mitochondrial inner membrane, and synapse, as well as their involvement in multiple neurological disorders. Manual annotation revealed that a set of brain-specific proteins were acetylation-modified. The acetylation of three brain-specific proteins was verified, including neurofilament light polypeptide (NEFL), 2',3'-cyclic-nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (CNP), and neuromodulin (GAP43). Further immunofluorescence staining illustrated that acetylated proteins were mainly distributed in the nuclei of cortex neurons and axons of hippocampal neurons, sparsely distributed in the nuclei of microglia and astrocytes, and the lack of distribution in both cytoplasm and nuclei of cerebrovascular endothelial cells. Together, this study provided a comprehensive mouse brain acetylome and illustrated the cellular-specific distribution of acetylated proteins in the mouse brain. These data will contribute to understanding and deciphering the molecular and cellular mechanisms of protein acetylation in brain development and neurological disorders. Besides, we proposed some problems that need to be solved in future brain acetylome research.
PXD034255	36112031	Coupling High-Field Asymmetric Ion Mobility Spectrometry with Capillary Electrophoresis-Electrospray Ionization-Tandem Mass Spectrometry Improves Protein Identifications in Bottom-Up Proteomic Analysis of Low Nanogram Samples. 	Coupling high-field asymmetric ion mobility spectrometry with capillary electrophoresis-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry improves protein identifications in bottom-up proteomic analysis of low nanogram samples	CE-MS/MS, FAIMS, bottom-up proteomics, capillary electrophoresis, tandem mass spectrometry, ultra-sensitive proteomics	In this work, we pioneered the assessment of coupling high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) with ultrasensitive capillary electrophoresis hyphenated with tandem mass spectrometry (CE-MS/MS) to achieve deeper proteome coverage of low nanogram amounts of digested cell lysates. An internal stepping strategy using three or four compensation voltages per analytical run with varied cycle times was tested to determine optimal FAIMS settings and MS parameters for the CE-FAIMS-MS/MS method. The optimized method applied to bottom-up proteomic analysis of 1 ng of HeLa protein digest standard identified 1314 +/- 30 proteins, 4829 +/- 200 peptide groups, and 7577 +/- 163 peptide spectrum matches (PSMs) corresponding to a 16, 25, and 22% increase, respectively, over CE-MS/MS alone, without FAIMS. Furthermore, the percentage of acquired MS/MS spectra that resulted in PSMs increased nearly 2-fold with CE-FAIMS-MS/MS. Label-free quantitation of proteins and peptides was also assessed to determine the precision of replicate analyses from FAIMS methods with increased cycle times. Our results also identified from 1 ng of HeLa protein digest without any prior enrichment 76 +/- 9 phosphopeptides, 18% of which were multiphosphorylated. These results represent a 46% increase in phosphopeptide identifications over the control experiments without FAIMS yielding 2.5-fold more multiphosphorylated peptides.
PXD035866	36113479	Targeted protein degradation reveals RNA Pol II heterogeneity and functional diversity. 	Targeted protein degradation reveals Pol II heterogeneity and functional diversity	ChIP-MS, Pol II subunits, Transcription	RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) subunits are thought to be involved in various transcription-associated processes, but it is unclear whether they play different regulatory roles in modulating gene expression. Here, we performed nascent and mature transcript sequencing after the acute degradation of 12 mammalian RNA Pol II subunits and profiled their genomic binding sites and protein interactomes to dissect their molecular functions. We found that RNA Pol II subunits contribute differently to RNA Pol II cellular localization and transcription processes and preferentially regulate RNA processing (such as RNA splicing and 3' end maturation). Genes sensitive to the depletion of different RNA Pol II subunits tend to be involved in diverse biological functions and show different RNA half-lives. Sequences, associated protein factors, and RNA structures are correlated with RNA Pol II subunit-mediated differential gene expression. These findings collectively suggest that the heterogeneity of RNA Pol II and different genes appear to depend on some of the subunits.
PXD036007	36113480	Developmental and housekeeping transcriptional programs in Drosophila require distinct chromatin remodelers. 	Developmental and housekeeping transcriptional programs in Drosophila require distinct chromatin remodelers	Brd7, Chromatin Remodelers, Drosophila, SWI/SNF, Transcription	Gene transcription is a highly regulated process in all animals. In Drosophila, two major transcriptional programs, housekeeping and developmental, have promoters with distinct regulatory compatibilities and nucleosome organization. However, it remains unclear how the differences in chromatin structure relate to the distinct regulatory properties and which chromatin remodelers are required for these programs. Using rapid degradation of core remodeler subunits in Drosophila melanogaster S2 cells, we demonstrate that developmental gene transcription requires SWI/SNF-type complexes, primarily to maintain distal enhancer accessibility. In contrast, wild-type-level housekeeping gene transcription requires the Iswi and Ino80 remodelers to maintain nucleosome positioning and phasing at promoters. These differential remodeler dependencies relate to different DNA-sequence-intrinsic nucleosome affinities, which favor a default ON state for housekeeping but a default OFF state for developmental gene transcription. Overall, our results demonstrate how different transcription-regulatory strategies are implemented by DNA sequence, chromatin structure, and remodeler activity.
PXD034927	36114190	A small molecule antagonist of SMN disrupts the interaction between SMN and RNAP II. 	Identification of the target proteins for compound 1	Orbitrap Eclipse, compound 1	Survival of motor neuron (SMN) functions in diverse biological pathways via recognition of symmetric dimethylarginine (Rme2s) on proteins by its Tudor domain, and deficiency of SMN leads to spinal muscular atrophy. Here we report a potent and selective antagonist with a 4-iminopyridine scaffold targeting the Tudor domain of SMN. Our structural and mutagenesis studies indicate that both the aromatic ring and imino groups of compound 1 contribute to its selective binding to SMN. Various on-target engagement assays support that compound 1 specifically recognizes SMN in a cellular context and prevents the interaction of SMN with the R1810me2s of RNA polymerase II subunit POLR2A, resulting in transcription termination and R-loop accumulation mimicking SMN depletion. Thus, in addition to the antisense, RNAi and CRISPR/Cas9 techniques, potent SMN antagonists could be used as an efficient tool to understand the biological functions of SMN.
PXD028813	36114200	Electrostatic and steric effects underlie acetylation-induced changes in ubiquitin structure and function. 	p300 acetylates Ub and linear Ub dimers	Ub, acetylation, acetyltransferase p300	Covalent attachment of ubiquitin (Ub) to proteins is a highly versatile posttranslational modification. Moreover, Ub is not only a modifier but itself is modified by phosphorylation and lysine acetylation. However, the functional consequences of Ub acetylation are poorly understood. By generation and comprehensive characterization of all seven possible mono-acetylated Ub variants, we show that each acetylation site has a particular impact on Ub structure. This is reflected in selective usage of the acetylated variants by different E3 ligases and overlapping but distinct interactomes, linking different acetylated variants to different cellular pathways. Notably, not only electrostatic but also steric effects contribute to acetylation-induced changes in Ub structure and, thus, function. Finally, we provide evidence that p300 acts as a position-specific Ub acetyltransferase and HDAC6 as a general Ub deacetylase. Our findings provide intimate insights into the structural and functional consequences of Ub acetylation and highlight the general importance of Ub acetylation.
PXD032405	36114358	Uterine extracellular vesicles as multi-signal messengers during maternal recognition of pregnancy in the mare. 	Uterine extracellular vesicles in the mare.	Equus caballus, Uterine extracellular vesicles, pregancy	In contrast to other domestic mammals, the embryo-derived signal(s) leading to maternal recognition of pregnancy (MRP) are still unknow in the mare. We hypothesize that these embryonic signals could be packed into uterine extracellular vesicles (uEVs), acting as multi-signal messengers between the conceptus and the maternal tract, and contributing to MRP. To unveil these signals, the RNA and protein cargos of uEVs isolated from uterine lavages collected from pregnant mares (P; day 10, 11, 12 and 13 after ovulation) and cyclic control mares (C; day 10 and 13 after ovulation) were analyzed. Our results showed a fine-tuned regulation of the uEV cargo (RNAs and proteins), by the day of pregnancy, the estrous cycle, and even the size of the embryo. A particular RNA pattern was identified with specific increase on P12 related to immune system and hormonal response. Besides, a set of proteins as well as RNAs was highly enriched in EVs on P12 and P13. Differential abundance of miRNAs was also identified in P13-derived uEVs. Their target genes were linked to down- or upregulated genes in the embryo and the endometrium, exposing their potential origin. Our study identified for first time specific molecules packed in uEVs, which were previously associated to MRP in the mare, and thus bringing added value to the current knowledge. Further integrative and functional analyses will help to confirm the role of these molecules in uEVs during MRP in the mare.
PXD019269	36114575	Phosphorylation of beta-catenin at Serine552 correlates with invasion and recurrence of non-functioning pituitary neuroendocrine tumours. 	Phospho beta-catenin Serine552 Predicts Recurrence of Non-Functioning Pituitary Tumors After Surgery	NFPT, Non-Functioning Pituitary Tumors, PTM, Pituitary tumors, phospho, phosphoproteomics	Non-functioning pituitary tumours (NF-PitNETs) are common intracranial benign neoplasms that can exhibit aggressive behaviour by invading neighbouring structures and, in some cases, have multiple recurrences. Despite resulting in severe co-morbidities, no predictive biomarkers of recurrence have been identified for NF-PitNETs. In this study we have used high-throughput mass spectrometry-based analysis to examine the phosphorylation pattern of different subsets of NF-PitNETs. Based on histopathological, radiological, surgical and clinical features, we have grouped NF-PitNETs into non-invasive, invasive, and recurrent disease groups. Tumour recurrence was determined based on regular clinical and radiological data of patients for a mean follow-up of 10 years (SD +/- 5.4 years). Phosphoproteomic analyses identified a unique phosphopeptide enrichment pattern which correlates with disease recurrence. Candidate phosphorylated proteins were validated in a large cohort of NF-PitNET patients by western blot and immunohistochemistry. We identified a cluster of 22 phosphopeptides upregulated in recurrent NF-PitNETs compared to non-invasive and invasive subgroups. We reveal significant phosphorylation of the beta-catenin at Ser552 in recurrent and invasive NF-PitNETs, compared to non-invasive/non-recurrent NF-PitNET subgroup. Moreover, beta-catenin pSer552 correlates with the recurrence free survival among 200 patients with NF-PitNET. Together, our results suggest that the phosphorylation status of beta-catenin at Ser552 could act as potential biomarker of tumour recurrence in NF-PitNETs.
PXD033205	36115020	Direct Observation of "Elongated" Conformational States in alpha-Synuclein upon Liquid-Liquid Phase Separation. 	First direct observation of elongated conformational states in alpha-synuclein upon liquid-liquid phase separation	Cross-linking Mass spectrometry Liquid-liquid phase separation alpha-synuclein	alpha-Synuclein (alpha-syn) is an intrinsically disordered protein (IDP) that undergoes liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS), fibrillation, and forms insoluble intracellular Lewy bodies in neurons, which are the hallmark of Parkinson's Disease (PD). Neurotoxicity precedes the formation of aggregates and might be related to alpha-syn LLPS. The molecular mechanisms underlying the early stages of LLPS are still elusive. To obtain structural insights into alpha-syn upon LLPS, we take advantage of cross-linking/mass spectrometry (XL-MS) and introduce an innovative approach, termed COMPASS (COMPetitive PAiring StatisticS). In this work, we show that the conformational ensemble of alpha-syn shifts from a "hairpin-like" structure towards more "elongated" conformational states upon LLPS. We obtain insights into the critical initial stages of LLPS and establish a novel mass spectrometry-based approach that will aid to solve open questions in LLPS structural biology.
PXD032014	36115344	ATP-site inhibitors induce unique conformations of the acute myeloid leukemia-associated Src-family kinase, Fgr. 	ATP-site inhibitors induce unique conformations of the Src-family kinase, Fgr	HDX MS, Src-family kinase, acute myeloid leukemia, hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry	The Src-family kinase Fgr is expressed primarily in myeloid hematopoietic cells and contributes to myeloid leukemia. Here, we present X-ray crystal structures of Fgr bound to the ATP-site inhibitors A-419259 and TL02-59, which show promise as anti-leukemic agents. A-419259 induces a closed Fgr conformation, with the SH3 and SH2 domains engaging the SH2-kinase linker and C-terminal tail, respectively. In the Fgr:A-419259 complex, the activation loop of one monomer inserts into the active site of the other, providing a snapshot of trans-autophosphorylation. By contrast, TL02-59 binding induced SH2 domain displacement from the C-terminal tail and SH3 domain release from the linker. Solution studies using HDX MS were consistent with the crystal structures, with A-419259 reducing and TL02-59 enhancing solvent exposure of the SH3 domain. These structures demonstrate that allosteric connections between the kinase and regulatory domains of Src-family kinases are regulated by the ligand bound to the active site.
PXD027743	36115835	Quantitative fragmentomics allow affinity mapping of interactomes. 	Quantitative fragmentomics to map affinities of interactomes	PDZ, complexome, domain-motif interaction, interactome	Human protein networks have been widely explored but most binding affinities remain unknown, hindering quantitative interactome-function studies. Yet interactomes rely on minimal interacting fragments displaying quantifiable affinities. Here, we measure the affinities of 65,000 interactions involving PDZ domains and their target PDZ-binding motifs (PBM) within a human interactome region particularly relevant for viral infection and cancer. We calculate interactomic distances, identify hot spots for viral interference, generate binding profiles and specificity logos, and explain selected cases by crystallographic studies. Mass spectrometry experiments on cell extracts and literature surveys show that quantitative fragmentomics effectively complements protein interactomics by providing affinities and completeness of coverage, putting a full human interactome affinity survey within reach. Finally, we show that interactome hijacking by the viral PBM of human papillomavirus E6 oncoprotein substantially impacts the host cell proteome beyond immediate E6 binders, illustrating the complex system-wide relationship between interactome and function.
PXD009807	36115843	PFKFB4 interacts with FBXO28 to promote HIF-1alpha signaling in glioblastoma. 	Glycolysis enzyme PFKFB4 enhances HIF1a transcriptional activity by blocking the ubiquitin E3 ligase FBXO28 in glioblastoma	Human. glioblastoma	Glioblastoma is a highly aggressive brain tumor for which there is no cure. The metabolic enzyme 6-Phosphofructo-2-Kinase/Fructose-2,6-Biphosphatase 4 (PFKFB4) is essential for glioblastoma stem-like cell (GSC) survival but its mode of action is unclear. Understanding the role of PFKFB4 in tumor cell survival could allow it to be leveraged in a cancer therapy. Here, we show the importance of PFKFB4 for glioblastoma growth in vivo in an orthotopic patient derived mouse model. In an evaluation of patient tumor samples of different cancer entities, PFKFB4 protein was found to be overexpressed in prostate, lung, colon, mammary and squamous cell carcinoma, with expression level correlating with tumor grade. Gene expression profiling in PFKFB4-silenced GSCs revealed a downregulation of hypoxia related genes and Western blot analysis confirmed a dramatic reduction of HIF (hypoxia inducible factor) protein levels. Through mass spectrometric analysis of immunoprecipitated PFKFB4, we identified the ubiquitin E3 ligase, F-box only protein 28 (FBXO28), as a new interaction partner of PFKFB4. We show that PFKFB4 regulates the ubiquitylation and subsequent proteasomal degradation of HIF-1alpha, which is mediated by the ubiquitin ligase activity of FBXO28. This newly discovered function of PFKFB4, coupled with its cancer specificity, provides a new strategy for inhibiting HIF-1alpha in cancer cells.
PXD031662	36115844	Oncogenic RAS commandeers amino acid sensing machinery to aberrantly activate mTORC1 in multiple myeloma. 	Characterization of RAS and SLC3A2 signaling in multiple myeloma	BioID2, KRAS, NRAS, SLC3A2, multiple myeloma, phosphoproteomes	Oncogenic RAS mutations are common in multiple myeloma (MM), an incurable malignancy of plasma cells. However, the mechanisms of pathogenic RAS signaling in this disease remain enigmatic and difficult to inhibit therapeutically. We employ an unbiased proteogenomic approach to dissect RAS signaling in MM. We discover that mutant isoforms of RAS organize a signaling complex with the amino acid transporter, SLC3A2, and MTOR on endolysosomes, which directly activates mTORC1 by co-opting amino acid sensing pathways. MM tumors with high expression of mTORC1-dependent genes are more aggressive and enriched in RAS mutations, and we detect interactions between RAS and MTOR in MM patient tumors harboring mutant RAS isoforms. Inhibition of RAS-dependent mTORC1 activity synergizes with MEK and ERK inhibitors to quench pathogenic RAS signaling in MM cells. This study redefines the RAS pathway in MM and provides a mechanistic and rational basis to target this mode of RAS signaling.
PXD035128	36116133	Reduced endosomal microautophagy activity in aging associates with enhanced exocyst-mediated protein secretion. 	Reduced endosomal microautophagy activity in aging associates with enhanced exocyst-mediated protein secretion	aging, autophagy, chaperones, proteostasis	Autophagy is essential for protein quality control and regulation of the functional proteome. Failure of autophagy pathways with age contributes to loss of proteostasis in aged organisms and accelerates the progression of age-related diseases. In this work, we show that activity of endosomal microautophagy (eMI), a selective type of autophagy occurring in late endosomes, declines with age and identify the sub-proteome affected by this loss of function. Proteomics of late endosomes from old mice revealed an aberrant glycation signature for Hsc70, the chaperone responsible for substrate targeting to eMI. Age-related Hsc70 glycation reduces its stability in late endosomes by favoring its organization into high molecular weight protein complexes and promoting its internalization/degradation inside late endosomes. Reduction of eMI with age associates with an increase in protein secretion, as late endosomes can release protein-loaded exosomes upon plasma membrane fusion. Our search for molecular mediators of the eMI/secretion switch identified the exocyst-RalA complex, known for its role in exocytosis, as a novel physiological eMI inhibitor that interacts with Hsc70 and acts directly at the late endosome membrane. This inhibitory function along with the higher exocyst-RalA complex levels detected in late endosomes from old mice could explain, at least in part, reduced eMI activity with age. Interaction of Hsc70 with components of the exocyst-RalA complex places this chaperone in the switch from eMI to secretion. Reduced intracellular degradation in favor of extracellular release of undegraded material with age may be relevant to the spreading of proteotoxicity associated with aging and progression of proteinopathies.
PXD019869	36116512	Reduced SPAG17 Expression in Systemic Sclerosis Triggers Myofibroblast Transition and Drives Fibrosis. 	Matrisome of neonatal mouse dermal fibroblasts	ECM, Fibroblast, Fibrosis, Matrisome, SPAG17, Skin	Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a clinically heterogeneous fibrotic disease with no effective treatment. Myofibroblasts are responsible for unresolving synchronous skin and internal organ fibrosis in SSc, but the drivers of sustained myofibroblast activation remain poorly understood. Using unbiased transcriptome analysis of skin biopsies, we identified the downregulation of SPAG17 in multiple independent cohorts of patients with SSc, and by orthogonal approaches, we observed a significant negative correlation between SPAG17 and fibrotic gene expression. Fibroblasts and endothelial cells explanted from SSc skin biopsies showed reduced chromatin accessibility at the SPAG17 locus. Remarkably, mice lacking Spag17 showed spontaneous skin fibrosis with increased dermal thickness, collagen deposition and stiffness, and altered collagen fiber alignment. Knockdown of SPAG17 in human and mouse fibroblasts and microvascular endothelial cells was accompanied by spontaneous myofibroblast transformation and markedly heightened sensitivity to profibrotic stimuli. These responses were accompanied by constitutive TGF-beta pathway activation. Thus, we discovered impaired expression of SPAG17 in SSc and identified, to our knowledge, a previously unreported cell-intrinsic role for SPAG17 in the negative regulation of fibrotic responses. These findings shed fresh light on the pathogenesis of SSc and may inform the search for innovative therapies for SSc and other fibrotic conditions through SPAG17 signaling.
PXD035221	36119606	Alternative splicing of Arabidopsis G6PD5 recruits NADPH-producing OPPP reactions to the endoplasmic reticulum. 	Alternative splicing of Arabidopsis G6PD5 can recruits the NADPH-producing OPPP reactions to the endoplasmic reticulum	Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, oxidative pentose-phosphate pathway	Glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase is the rate-limiting enzyme of the oxidative pentose-phosphate pathway (OPPP). The OPPP mainly provides NADPH and sugar-phosphate building blocks for anabolic pathways and is present in all eukaryotes. In plant cells, the irreversible part of the OPPP is found in several compartments. Among the isoforms catalyzing the first OPPP step in Arabidopsis, G6PD1 to G6PD4 target plastids (with G6PD1 being also directed to peroxisomes), whereas G6PD5 and G6PD6 operate in the cytosol. We noticed that alternative splice forms G6PD5.4 and G6PD5.5 encode N-terminally extended proteoforms. Compared to G6PD5.1, RT-PCR signals differed and fluorescent reporter fusions expressed in Arabidopsis protoplasts accumulated in distinct intracellular sites. Co-expression with organelle-specific markers revealed that the G6PD5.4 and G6PD5.5 proteoforms label different subdomains of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and analysis of C-terminal roGFP fusions showed that their catalytic domains face the cytosol. In g6pd5-1 g6pd6-2 mutant protoplasts lacking cytosolic G6PDH activity, the ER-bound proteoforms were both active and thus able to form homomers. Among the Arabidopsis 6-phosphogluconolactonases (catalyzing the second OPPP step), we noticed that isoform PGL2 carries a C-terminal CaaX motif that may be prenylated for membrane attachment. Reporter-PGL2 fusions co-localized with G6PD5.4 in ER subdomains, which was abolished by Cys-to-Ser exchange in the (256)CSIL motif. Among the Arabidopsis 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenases (catalyzing the third OPPP step), S-acylated peptides were detected for all three isoforms in a recent palmitoylome, with dual cytosolic/peroxisomal PGD2 displaying three sites. Co-expression of GFP-PGD2 diminished crowding of OFP-G6PD5.4 at the ER, independent of PGL2's presence. Upon pull-down of GFP-G6PD5.4, not only unlabeled PGD2 and PGL2 were enriched, but also enzymes that depend on NADPH provision at the ER, indicative of physical interaction with the OPPP enzymes. When membrane-bound G6PD5.5 and 5.4 variants were co-expressed with KCR1 (ketoacyl-CoA reductase, involved in fatty acid elongation), ATR1 (NADPH:cytochrome-P450 oxidoreductase), or pulled C4H/CYP73A5 (cinnamate 4-hydroxylase) as indirectly (via ATR) NADPH-dependent cytochrome P450 enzyme, co-localization in ER subdomains was observed. Thus, alternative splicing of G6PD5 can direct the NADPH-producing OPPP reactions to the cytosolic face of the ER, where they may operate as membrane-bound metabolon to support several important biosynthetic pathways of plant cells.
PXD035894	36119614	Multi-omics analysis of the regulatory effects of low-phosphorus stress on phosphorus transport in soybean roots. 	Multi-omics analysis of application on regulation of phosphorus transport in soybean root	low phosphorus stress,phosphorus transport,transcriptomics,proteomics,metabonomics	The regulatory effects of uneven phosphorus supplies on phosphorus transport in soybean roots are still unclear. To further analyze the regulatory effects of low-phosphorus stress on phosphorus transport in soybean roots and the effects of uneven phosphorus application on the physiological mechanism of phosphorus transport in soybean roots, dual-root soybean plants were prepared via grafting, and a sand culture experiment was performed. From the unfolded cotyledon stage to the initial flowering stage, one side of each dual-root soybean system was irrigated with a low-phosphorus-concentration solution (phosphorus-application [P+] side), and the other side was irrigated with a phosphorus-free nutrient solution (phosphorus-free [P-] side); this setup allowed the study of the effects of different phosphorus supply levels on the expression of genes and proteins and the accumulation of metabolites in soybean roots on the P- side to clarify the method through which phosphorus transport is regulated in soybean roots and to provide a theoretical basis for improving the use rate of phosphorus fertilizer. The results revealed that the unilateral supply of low-concentration phosphorus promoted the uptake of phosphorus by soybean roots and the transport of phosphorus from the P+ side to the P- side. Compared with the normal concentration of phosphorus supply and the phosphorus-free supply, the low concentration phosphorus supply affected the regulation of the metabolic pathways involved in starch and sucrose metabolism, glycolysis, fructose, and mannose metabolism, etc., thereby affecting soybean root phosphorus transport. The low-phosphorus stress inhibited fructose synthesis and sucrose synthase synthesis in the soybean roots and the synthesis of hexokinase (HK) and fructose kinase, which catalyzes the conversion of fructose to fructose-6-phosphate. Low-phosphorus stress promoted the synthesis of sucrose invertase and the conversion of sucrose into maltose by the activity of starch synthase (StS) and stimulated the synthesis of UDPG pyrophosphorylase (UGP) and phosphoglucose isomerase (GP1), which is involved in the conversion of UDP-glucose to glucose-6-phosphate. The phosphorus transport pathway of soybean roots was then affected, which promoted phosphorus allocation to UTP and glucose-6-phosphate. Additionally, low-phosphorus stress hastened glycolysis in the soybean roots and inhibited the synthesis of malic acid, thereby promoting the transport of phosphorus in the roots. In addition, low-phosphorus stress inhibited the synthesis of fructose, mannose, and mannose-1-phosphate and the synthesis of other enzymes involved in phosphorus transport as well as invertase, thereby inhibiting the transport and synthesis of several organic phosphorus-containing compounds.
PXD035737	36120045	Cross-Talk of Protein Expression and Lysine Acetylation in Response to TMV Infection in Nicotiana benthamiana. 	Crosstalk of Protein Expression and Lysine Acetylation in Response to TMV Infection in Nicotiana benthamiana	Nicotiana benthamiana, TMV, lysine acetylation	Lysine acetylation (K(ac)), a reversible PTM, plays an essential role in various biological processes, including those involving metabolic pathways, pathogen resistance, and transcription, in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. TMV, the major factor that causes the poor quality of Solanaceae crops worldwide, directly alters many metabolic processes in tobacco. However, the extent and function of K(ac) during TMV infection have not been determined. The validation test to detect K(ac) level and viral expression after TMV infection and Nicotinamide (NAM) treatment clarified that acetylation was involved in TMV infection. Furthermore, we comprehensively analyzed the changes in the proteome and acetylome of TMV-infected tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) seedlings via LC-MS/MS in conjunction with highly sensitive immune-affinity purification. In total, 2082 lysine-acetylated sites on 1319 proteins differentially expressed in response to TMV infection were identified. Extensive bioinformatic studies disclosed changes in acetylation of proteins engaged in cellular metabolism and biological processes. The vital influence of K(ac) in fatty acid degradation and alpha-linolenic acid metabolism was also revealed in TMV-infected seedlings. This study first revealed K(ac) information in N. benthamiana under TMV infection and expanded upon the existing landscape of acetylation in pathogen infection.
PXD035671	36120304	Protective effects of mitochondrial fission inhibition on ox-LDL induced VSMC foaming via metabolic reprogramming. 	Protective Effects of Mitochondrial Fission Inhibition on Ox-LDL Induced VSMC Foaming via Metabolic Reprogramming	Atherosclerosisï¼›lipid deposition, foaming, metabolic reprogramming, mitochondrial fission	Atherosclerosis (AS) is one of the most common diseases in middle-age and elderly population. Lipid metabolism disorder induced foaming of vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) is an important pathological process of AS. Mitochondria plays an important role in lipids metabolism. While it is not known whether regulating mitochondrial function can protect ox-LDL induced VSMC foaming via metabolic reprogramming. With ox-LDL induced mouse model of VSMC injury, the injury effect of ox-LDL and the protective effect of mdivi-1, the mitochondrial fission inhibitor on mitochondrial morphology and function of VSMC, and the formation of lipid droplet were observed. With metabonomics and proteomics techniques, the main lipid metabolites and regulation proteins were identified. The results showed that Ox-LDL induced a significant mitochondrial fission and fragmentation of VSMC, and mitochondrial function disorder along with lipid deposition and foaming. Mdivi-1 significantly antagonized the damage effect of ox-LDL on mitochondrial morphology and function of VSMC, and blocked the lipid deposition. Metabonomics analysis found 848 different metabolites between ox-LDL and mdivi-1 treatment group, in which the lipid metabolites were the main, and heptadecanoic acid, palmitoleic acid and myristic acid were the critical metabolites changed most. Proteomics results showed that there were 125 differential expressed proteins between ox-LDL and mdivi-1 treatment, acetyl -CoA carboxylase1 and fatty acid synthase were the main differential expressed proteins. This study suggest that Mitochondrial fission plays an important role in VSMC lipid deposition and foaming. Inhibition of mitochondrial fission may effectively fight against ox-LDL induced lipid deposition and foaming of VSMC via improving mitochondrial function and metabolic reprogramming. This finding provides a new insight for prevention and treatment of AS.
PXD035823	36120378	Salvia chinensia Benth induces autophagy in esophageal cancer cells via AMPK/ULK1 signaling pathway. 	Salvia chinensia Benth induces autophagy in esophageal cancer cells via AMPK/ULK1 signaling pathway	AMPK/ULK1 pathway, Autophagy, Esophageal cancer, Herbal Medicine, Salvia chinensia Benth., SensGFP-StubRFP-LC3	Salvia chinensia Benth (Shijianchuan in Chinese, SJC) has been used as a traditional anti-cancer herb. SJC showed good anti-esophageal cancer efficacy based on our clinical application. However, the current research on SJC is minimal, and its anti-cancer effect lacks scientific certification. This study aims to clarify the inhibitory effect of SJC on esophageal cancer and explore its underlying mechanism. Q-Orbitrap high-resolution LC/MS was used to identify the primary chemical constituents in SJC. Cell proliferation and colony formation assays showed that SJC could effectively inhibit the growth of esophageal tumor cells in vitro. To clarify its mechanism of action, proteomic and bioinformatic analyses were carried out by combining tandem mass labeling and two-dimensional liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD035823. The results indicated that SJC could activate AMPK signaling pathway and effectively promote autophagy in esophageal cancer cells. Therefore, we further used western blotting to confirm that SJC activated autophagy in esophageal cancer cells through the AMPK/ULK1 signaling pathway. The results showed that P-AMPK and P-ULK1 were significantly up-regulated after the treatment with SJC. The ratio of autophagosomes marker proteins LC3II/I was significantly increased. In addition, the expression of the autophagy substrate protein P62 decreased with the degradation of autophagosomes. Using lentiviral transfection of fluorescent label SensGFP-StubRFP-LC3 protein and revalidation of LC3 expression before and after administration by laser confocal microscopy. Compared with the control group, the fluorescence expression of the SJC group was significantly enhanced, indicating that it promoted autophagy in esophageal cancer cells. Cell morphology and the formation of autophagosomes were observed by transmission electron microscopy. Our study shows that the tumor suppressor effect of SJC is related to promoting autophagy in esophageal tumor cells via the AMPK/ULK1 signaling pathway.
PXD035645	36120566	PBC, an easy and efficient strategy for high-throughput protein C-terminome profiling. 	PBC, an easy and efficient strategy for high-throughput protein C-terminome profiling	C-terminome, high-throughput	High-throughput profiling of protein C-termini is still a challenging task. Proteomics provides a powerful technology for systematic and high-throughput study of protein C-termini. Various C-terminal peptide enrichment strategies based on chemical derivatization and chromatography separation have been reported. However, they are still costly and time-consuming, with low enrichment efficiency for C-terminal peptides. In this study, by taking advantage of the high reaction selectivity of 2-pyridinecarboxaldehyde (2-PCA) with an alpha-amino group on peptide N-terminus and high affinity between biotin and streptavidin, we developed a 2-PCA- and biotin labeling-based C-terminomic (PBC) strategy for a high-efficiency and high-throughput analysis of protein C-terminome. Triplicates of PBC experiments identified a total of 1,975 C-terminal peptides corresponding to 1,190 proteins from 293 T cell line, which is 180% higher than the highest reported number of C-terminal peptides identified from mammalian cells by chemical derivatization-based C-terminomics study. The enrichment efficiency (68%) is the highest among the C-terminomics methods currently reported. In addition, we not only uncovered 50 proteins with truncated C-termini which were significantly enriched in extracellular exosome, vesicle, and ribosome by a bioinformatic analysis but also systematically characterized the whole PTMs on C-terminal in 293 T cells, suggesting PBC as a powerful tool for protein C-terminal degradomics and PTMs investigation. In conclusion, the PBC strategy would benefit high-efficiency and high-throughput profiling of protein C-terminome.
PXD015676	36122347	Phosphorylation of the receptor protein Pex5p modulates import of proteins into peroxisomes. 	Phosphorylation of the receptor protein Pex5p modulates import of PTS1 cargoes into peroxisomesPhosphorylation of the receptor protein Pex5p modulates import of PTS1 cargoes into peroxisomes	Peroxisomal Protein Import, Pex5p, Phosphoproteomics, Phosphorylation	Peroxisomes are organelles with vital functions in metabolism and their dysfunction is associated with human diseases. To fulfill their multiple roles, peroxisomes import nuclear-encoded matrix proteins, most carrying a peroxisomal targeting signal (PTS) 1. The receptor Pex5p recruits PTS1-proteins for import into peroxisomes; whether and how this process is posttranslationally regulated is unknown. Here, we identify 22 phosphorylation sites of Pex5p. Yeast cells expressing phospho-mimicking Pex5p-S507/523D (Pex5p(2D)) show decreased import of GFP with a PTS1. We show that the binding affinity between a PTS1-protein and Pex5p(2D) is reduced. An in vivo analysis of the effect of the phospho-mimicking mutant on PTS1-proteins revealed that import of most, but not all, cargos is affected. The physiological effect of the phosphomimetic mutations correlates with the binding affinity of the corresponding extended PTS1-sequences. Thus, we report a novel Pex5p phosphorylation-dependent mechanism for regulating PTS1-protein import into peroxisomes. In a broader view, this suggests that posttranslational modifications can function in fine-tuning the peroxisomal protein composition and, thus, cellular metabolism.
PXD035013	36122374	Missense mutations in PIEZO1, which encodes the Piezo1 mechanosensor protein, define Er red blood cell antigens. 	Mass spectrometry of immunoprecipitations from control and Er blood group	LCMS, red blood cells	Despite the identification of the high-incidence red cell antigen Era nearly 40 years ago, the molecular background of this antigen, together with the other 2 members of the Er blood group collection, has yet to be elucidated. Whole exome and Sanger sequencing of individuals with serologically defined Er alloantibodies identified several missense mutations within the PIEZO1 gene, encoding amino acid substitutions within the extracellular domain of the Piezo1 mechanosensor ion channel. Confirmation of Piezo1 as the carrier molecule for the Er blood group antigens was demonstrated using immunoprecipitation, CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene knockout, and expression studies in an erythroblast cell line. We report the molecular bases of 5 Er blood group antigens: the recognized Era, Erb, and Er3 antigens and 2 novel high-incidence Er antigens, described here as Er4 and Er5, establishing a new blood group system. Anti-Er4 and anti-Er5 are implicated in severe hemolytic disease of the fetus and newborn. Demonstration of Piezo1, present at just a few hundred copies on the surface of the red blood cell, as the site of a new blood group system highlights the potential antigenicity of even low-abundance membrane proteins and contributes to our understanding of the in vivo characteristics of this important and widely studied protein in transfusion biology and beyond.
PXD034819	36123372	Angiocrine extracellular vesicles impose mesenchymal reprogramming upon proneural glioma stem cells. 	Angiocrine extracellular vesicles impose mesenchymal reprogramming upon proneural glioma stem cells	Endothelial cells, Extracellular Vesicles, Glioblastoma, glioblastoma stem cells, heterogeneity, invasion, mesenchymal, migration, proneural	Glioblastoma (GBM) is an incurable form of primary astrocytic brain tumor driven by glioma stem cell (GSC) compartment closely associated with the vascular niche. GSC phenotypes are heterogeneous and range from proneural to mesenchymal-like, the latter characterised by greater invasiveness. Here we document the secretory (angiocrine) role of endothelial cells and their derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) as drivers of proneural-to-mesenchymal reprogramming of GSCs. These changes involve activation of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and NFkappaB, and inactivation of NOTCH, while altering responsiveness to chemotherapy and driving infiltrative growth in the brain. Our findings suggest that EV-mediated angiocrine interactions impact the nature of cellular stemness in GBM with implications for disease biology and therapy.
PXD035624	36124643	The oncogenic transcription factor FOXQ1 is a differential regulator of Wnt target genes. 	The oncogenic transcription factor FOXQ1 is a bimodal regulator of Wnt target genes	HEK293T, LC MS/MS	The forkhead box transcription factor FOXQ1 contributes to the pathogenesis of carcinomas. In colorectal cancers, FOXQ1 promotes tumour metastasis by inducing epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) of cancer cells. FOXQ1 may exacerbate cancer by activating the oncogenic Wnt/beta-catenin signalling pathway. However, the role of FOXQ1 in the Wnt pathway remains to be resolved. Here, we report that FOXQ1 is an activator of Wnt-induced transcription and regulator of beta-catenin target gene expression. Upon Wnt pathway activation, FOXQ1 synergises with the beta-catenin nuclear complex to boost the expression of major Wnt targets. In parallel, we find that FOXQ1 controls the differential expression of various Wnt target genes in a beta-catenin-independent manner. Using RNA sequencing of colorectal cancer cell lines, we show that Wnt signalling and FOXQ1 converge on a transcriptional programme linked to EMT and cell migration. Additionally, we demonstrate that FOXQ1 occupies Wnt-responsive elements in beta-catenin target gene promoters and recruits a similar set of co-factors to the beta-catenin-associated transcription factor Tcf7l1. Taken together, our results indicate a multifaceted role of FOXQ1 in Wnt/beta-catenin signalling, which may drive the metastasis of colorectal cancers.
PXD030769	36124662	The high mobility group protein HMG20A cooperates with the histone reader PHF14 to modulate TGFbeta and Hippo pathways. 	The high mobility group protein HMG20A cooperates with the histone reader PHF14 to modulate cancer signaling pathways.	cancer, high mobility group proteins	High mobility group (HMG) proteins are chromatin regulators with essential functions in development, cell differentiation and cell proliferation. The protein HMG20A is predicted by the AlphaFold2 software to contain three distinct structural elements, which we have functionally characterized: i) an amino-terminal, intrinsically disordered domain with transactivation activity; ii) an HMG box with higher binding affinity for double-stranded, four-way-junction DNA than for linear DNA; and iii) a long coiled-coil domain. Our proteomic study followed by a deletion analysis and structural modeling demonstrates that HMG20A forms a complex with the histone reader PHF14, via the establishment of a two-stranded alpha-helical coiled-coil structure. siRNA-mediated knockdown of either PHF14 or HMG20A in MDA-MB-231 cells causes similar defects in cell migration, invasion and homotypic cell-cell adhesion ability, but neither affects proliferation. Transcriptomic analyses demonstrate that PHF14 and HMG20A share a large subset of targets. We show that the PHF14-HMG20A complex modulates the Hippo pathway through a direct interaction with the TEAD1 transcription factor. PHF14 or HMG20A deficiency increases epithelial markers, including E-cadherin and the epithelial master regulator TP63 and impaired normal TGFbeta-trigged epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Taken together, these data indicate that PHF14 and HMG20A cooperate in regulating several pathways involved in epithelial-mesenchymal plasticity.
PXD027211	36127323	Primary cilia contribute to the aggressiveness of atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumors. 	Primary cilia contribute to the aggressiveness of atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumors	Atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor, STAT1/DR5 signaling, primary cilia, targeted therapy	Atypical teratoid/rhabdoid tumor (AT/RT) is a highly malignant brain tumor in infants that is characterized by loss of nuclear expression of SMARCB1 or SMARCA4 proteins. Recent studies show that AT/RTs comprise three molecular subgroups, namely AT/RT-TYR, AT/RT-MYC and AT/RT-SHH. The subgroups show distinct expression patterns of genes involved in ciliogenesis, however, little is known about the functional roles of primary cilia in the biology of AT/RT. Here, we show that primary cilia are present across all AT/RT subgroups with specific enrichment in AT/RT-TYR patient samples. Furthermore, we demonstrate that primary ciliogenesis contributes to AT/RT biology in vitro and in vivo. Specifically, we observed a significant decrease in proliferation and clonogenicity following disruption of primary ciliogenesis in AT/RT cell line models. Additionally, apoptosis was significantly increased via the induction of STAT1 and DR5 signaling, as detected by proteogenomic profiling. In a Drosophila model of SMARCB1 deficiency, concomitant knockdown of several cilia-associated genes resulted in a substantial shift of the lethal phenotype with more than 20% of flies reaching adulthood. We also found significantly extended survival in an orthotopic xenograft mouse model of AT/RT upon disruption of primary ciliogenesis. Taken together, our findings indicate that primary ciliogenesis or its downstream signaling contributes to the aggressiveness of AT/RT and, therefore, may constitute a novel therapeutic target.
PXD031977	36127339	An EGFR/HER2-targeted conjugate sensitizes gemcitabine-sensitive and resistant pancreatic cancer through different SMAD4-mediated mechanisms. 	An antibody drug conjugate-like agent DTLL sensitizes gemcitabine-sensitive/resistant pancreatic cancer on basis of SMAD4 profiles	Antibody drug conjugate (ADC), Chemoresistance, Dual-targeting ligand-based lidamycin (DTLL), Gemcitabine, Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), SMAD4	Chemoresistance limits its clinical implementation for pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). We previously generated an EGFR/HER2 targeted conjugate, dual-targeting ligand-based lidamycin (DTLL), which shows a highly potent antitumor effect. To overcome chemoresistance in PDAC, we aim to study DTLL efficacy when combined with gemcitabine and explore its mechanisms of action. DTLL in combination with gemcitabine show a superior inhibitory effect on the growth of gemcitabine-resistant/sensitive tumors. DTLL sensitizes gemcitabine efficacy via distinct action mechanisms mediated by mothers against decapentaplegic homolog 4 (SMAD4). It not only prevents neoplastic proliferation via ATK/mTOR blockade and NF-kappaB impaired function in SMAD4-sufficient PDACs, but also restores SMAD4 bioactivity to trigger downstream NF-kappaB-regulated signaling in SMAD4-deficient tumors and to overcome chemoresistance. DTLL seems to act as a SMAD4 module that normalizes its function in PDAC, having a synergistic effect in combination with gemcitabine. Our findings provide insight into a rational SMAD4-directed precision therapy in PDAC.
PXD022653	36128481	Acute Intravenous NaCl and Volume Expansion Reduces Sodium-Chloride Cotransporter Abundance and Phosphorylation in Urinary Extracellular Vesicles. 	Quantitative proteome of urinary extracellular vesicles (uEVs) from hypertensive patients with raised aldosterone-to-renin ratios (ARRs) that underwent seated saline suppression testing (SSST)	kidney, urinary extracellular vesicle, urine	Background: Sodium chloride (NaCl) loading and volume expansion suppress the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system to reduce renal tubular reabsorption of NaCl and water, but effects on the sodium-chloride cotransporter (NCC) and relevant renal transmembrane proteins that are responsible for this modulation in humans are less well investigated. Methods: We used urinary extracellular vesicles (uEVs) as an indirect readout to assess renal transmembrane proteins involved in NaCl and water homeostasis in 44 patients with hypertension who had repeatedly raised aldosterone/renin ratios undergoing infusion of 2 L of 0.9% saline over 4 hours. Results: When measured by mass spectrometry in 13 patients, significant decreases were observed in NCC (median fold change [FC]=0.70); pendrin (FC=0.84); AQP2 (FC=0.62); and uEV markers, including ALIX (FC=0.65) and TSG101 (FC=0.66). Immunoblotting reproduced the reduction in NCC (FC=0.54), AQP2 (FC=0.42), ALIX (FC=0.52), and TSG101 (FC=0.55) in the remaining 31 patients, and demonstrated a significant decrease in phosphorylated NCC (pNCC; FC=0.49). However, after correction for ALIX, the reductions in NCC (FC=0.90) and pNCC (FC=1.00) were no longer apparent, whereas the significant decrease in AQP2 persisted (FC=0.62). Conclusion: We conclude that (1) decreases in NCC and pNCC, induced by acute NaCl loading and volume expansion, may be due to diluted post-test urines; (2) the lack of change of NCC and pNCC when corrected for ALIX, despite a fall in plasma aldosterone, may be due to the lack of change in plasma K(+); and (3) the decrease in AQP2 may be due to a decrease in vasopressin in response to volume expansion.
PXD033478	36129736	The histone code of the fungal genus Aspergillus uncovered by evolutionary and proteomic analyses. 	Histone post-translational modification analysis of Aspergillus strains	Aspergillus, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, histone post-translational modifications	Chemical modifications of DNA and histone proteins impact the organization of chromatin within the nucleus. Changes in these modifications, catalysed by different chromatin-modifying enzymes, influence chromatin organization, which in turn is thought to impact the spatial and temporal regulation of gene expression. While combinations of different histone modifications, the histone code, have been studied in several model species, we know very little about histone modifications in the fungal genus Aspergillus, whose members are generally well studied due to their importance as models in cell and molecular biology as well as their medical and biotechnological relevance. Here, we used phylogenetic analyses in 94 Aspergilli as well as other fungi to uncover the occurrence and evolutionary trajectories of enzymes and protein complexes with roles in chromatin modifications or regulation. We found that these enzymes and complexes are highly conserved in Aspergilli, pointing towards a complex repertoire of chromatin modifications. Nevertheless, we also observed few recent gene duplications or losses, highlighting Aspergillus species to further study the roles of specific chromatin modifications. SET7 (KMT6) and other components of PRC2 (Polycomb Repressive Complex 2), which is responsible for methylation on histone H3 at lysine 27 in many eukaryotes including fungi, are absent in Aspergilli as well as in closely related Penicillium species, suggesting that these lost the capacity for this histone modification. We corroborated our computational predictions by performing untargeted MS analysis of histone post-translational modifications in Aspergillus nidulans. This systematic analysis will pave the way for future research into the complexity of the histone code and its functional implications on genome architecture and gene regulation in fungi.
PXD034938	36129980	FBXO42 facilitates Notch signaling activation and global chromatin relaxation by promoting K63-linked polyubiquitination of RBPJ. 	FBXO42 facilitates Notch signaling activation and global chromatin relaxation by promoting K63-linked polyubiquitination of RBPJ	Notch signaling, RBPJ, ubiquitination	Dysregulation of the Notch-RBPJ (recombination signal-binding protein of immunoglobulin kappa J region) signaling pathway has been found associated with various human diseases including cancers; however, precisely how this key signaling pathway is fine-tuned via its interactors and modifications is still largely unknown. In this study, using a proteomic approach, we identified F-box only protein 42 (FBXO42) as a previously unidentified RBPJ interactor. FBXO42 promotes RBPJ polyubiquitination on lysine-175 via lysine-63 linkage, which enhances the association of RBPJ with chromatin remodeling complexes and induces a global chromatin relaxation. Genetically depleting FBXO42 or pharmacologically targeting its E3 ligase activity attenuates the Notch signaling-related leukemia development in vivo. Together, our findings not only revealed FBXO42 as a critical regulator of the Notch pathway by modulating RBPJ-dependent global chromatin landscape changes but also provided insights into the therapeutic intervention of the Notch pathway for leukemia treatment.
PXD035512	36129988	The adipocyte-enriched secretory protein tetranectin exacerbates type 2 diabetes by inhibiting insulin secretion from beta cells. 	Proteomics Analysis of Human Obesity and Metabolic Syndrome Serum	Metabolic Syndrome, biomarker, obesity	Pancreatic beta cell failure is a hallmark of diabetes. However, the causes of beta cell failure remain incomplete. Here, we report the identification of tetranectin (TN), an adipose tissue-enriched secretory molecule, as a negative regulator of insulin secretion in beta cells in diabetes. TN expression is stimulated by high glucose in adipocytes via the p38 MAPK/TXNIP/thioredoxin/OCT4 signaling pathway, and elevated serum TN levels are associated with diabetes. TN treatment greatly exacerbates hyperglycemia in mice and suppresses glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in islets. Conversely, knockout of TN or neutralization of TN function notably improves insulin secretion and glucose tolerance in high-fat diet-fed mice. Mechanistically, TN binds with high selectivity to beta cells and inhibits insulin secretion by blocking L-type Ca(2+) channels. Our study uncovers an adipocyte-beta cell cross-talk that contributes to beta cell dysfunction in diabetes and suggests that neutralization of TN levels may provide a new treatment strategy for type 2 diabetes.
PXD035181	36130519	Erythropoietin-driven dynamic proteome adaptations during erythropoiesis prevent iron overload in the developing embryo. 	Proteome of BaF3-mEpoR cells stimulated with 5 U/ml Epo, 10 ng/ml IL-3 or left untreated	BaF3, erythropoietin, interleukin-3	Erythropoietin (Epo) ensures survival and proliferation of colony-forming unit erythroid (CFU-E) progenitor cells and their differentiation to hemoglobin-containing mature erythrocytes. A lack of Epo-induced responses causes embryonic lethality, but mechanisms regulating the dynamic communication of cellular alterations to the organismal level remain unresolved. By time-resolved transcriptomics and proteomics, we show that Epo induces in CFU-E cells a gradual transition from proliferation signature proteins to proteins indicative for differentiation, including heme-synthesis enzymes. In the absence of the Epo receptor (EpoR) in embryos, we observe a lack of hemoglobin in CFU-E cells and massive iron overload of the fetal liver pointing to a miscommunication between liver and placenta. A reduction of iron-sulfur cluster-containing proteins involved in oxidative phosphorylation in these embryos leads to a metabolic shift toward glycolysis. This link connecting erythropoiesis with the regulation of iron homeostasis and metabolic reprogramming suggests that balancing these interactions is crucial for protection from iron intoxication and for survival.
PXD036548	36130923	VAL1 acts as an assembly platform co-ordinating co-transcriptional repression and chromatin regulation at Arabidopsis FLC. 	VAL1 acts as an assembly platform co-ordinating co-transcriptional repression and chromatin 2 regulation at Arabidopsis FLC	ASAP, Epigenetics, Gene silencing, Orbitrap Fusion, PRC1, chromatin regulation, polycomb, transcription factor, vernalisation	Polycomb (PcG) silencing is crucial for development, but how targets are specified remains incompletely understood. The cold-induced Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 (PRC2) silencing of Arabidopsis thaliana FLOWERING LOCUS C (FLC) provides an excellent system to elucidate PcG regulation. Association of the DNA binding protein VAL1 to FLC PcG nucleation regionis an important step. VAL1 co-immunoprecipitates APOPTOSIS AND SPLICING ASSOCIATED PROTEIN (ASAP) complex and PRC1. Here, we show that ASAP and PRC1 are necessary for co-transcriptional repression and chromatin regulation at FLC. ASAP mutants affect FLC transcription in warm conditions, but the rate of FLC silencing in the cold is unaffected. PRC1-mediated H2Aub accumulation increases at the FLC nucleation region during cold, but unlike the PRC2-delivered H3K27me3, does not spread across the locus. H2Aub thus involved in the transition to epigenetic silencing at FLC, facilitating H3K27me3 accumulation and long-term epigenetic memory. Overall, our work highlights the importance of VAL1 as an assembly platform co-ordinating activities necessary for epigenetic silencing at FLC.
PXD029176	36130931	Reaction-based fluorogenic probes for detecting protein cysteine oxidation in living cells. 	Reaction-based fluorogenic probes for selective detection of cysteinyl oxidation in living cells	Reaction-based fluorogenic probe, cysteinyl oxidation	'Turn-on' fluorescence probes for detecting H2O2 in cells are established, but equivalent tools to monitor the products of its reaction with protein cysteines have not been reported. Here we describe fluorogenic probes for detecting sulfenic acid, a redox modification inextricably linked to H2O2 signaling and oxidative stress. The reagents exhibit excellent cell permeability, rapid reactivity, and high selectivity with minimal cytotoxicity. We develop a high-throughput assay for measuring S-sulfenation in cells and use it to screen a curated kinase inhibitor library. We reveal a positive association between S-sulfenation and inhibition of TK, AGC, and CMGC kinase group members including GSK3, a promising target for neurological disorders. Proteomic mapping of GSK3 inhibitor-treated cells shows that S-sulfenation sites localize to the regulatory cysteines of antioxidant enzymes. Our studies highlight the ability of kinase inhibitors to modulate the cysteine sulfenome and should find broad application in the rapidly growing field of redox medicine.
PXD036270	36130971	Differential dysregulation of granule subsets in WASH-deficient neutrophil leukocytes resulting in inflammation. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of the neutrophil secretome (Gelatinase/Specific granules)	Neutrophil, exocytosis, gelatinase granule, secretion	Dysregulated secretion in neutrophil leukocytes associates with human inflammatory disease. The exocytosis response to triggering stimuli is sequential; gelatinase granules modulate the initiation of the innate immune response, followed by the release of pro-inflammatory azurophilic granules, requiring stronger stimulation. Exocytosis requires actin depolymerization which is actively counteracted under non-stimulatory conditions. Here we show that the actin nucleator, WASH, is necessary to maintain azurophilic granules in their refractory state by granule actin entrapment and interference with the Rab27a-JFC1 exocytic machinery. On the contrary, gelatinase granules of WASH-deficient neutrophil leukocytes are characterized by decreased Rac1, shortened granule-associated actin comets and impaired exocytosis. Rac1 activation restores exocytosis of these granules. In vivo, WASH deficiency induces exacerbated azurophilic granule exocytosis, inflammation, and decreased survival. WASH deficiency thus differentially impacts neutrophil granule subtypes, impairing exocytosis of granules that mediate the initiation of the neutrophil innate response while exacerbating pro-inflammatory granule secretion.
PXD018624	36131016	CLN3 is required for the clearance of glycerophosphodiesters from lysosomes. 	The Batten disease gene product CLN3 is required for the efflux of glycerophosphodiesters from lysosomes	Batten disease, CLN3, liver, lysosome	Lysosomes have many roles, including degrading macromolecules and signalling to the nucleus(1). Lysosomal dysfunction occurs in various human conditions, such as common neurodegenerative diseases and monogenic lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs)(2-4). For most LSDs, the causal genes have been identified but, in some, the function of the implicated gene is unknown, in part because lysosomes occupy a small fraction of the cellular volume so that changes in lysosomal contents are difficult to detect. Here we develop the LysoTag mouse for the tissue-specific isolation of intact lysosomes that are compatible with the multimodal profiling of their contents. We used the LysoTag mouse to study CLN3, a lysosomal transmembrane protein with an unknown function. In children, the loss of CLN3 causes juvenile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (Batten disease), a lethal neurodegenerative LSD. Untargeted metabolite profiling of lysosomes from the brains of mice lacking CLN3 revealed a massive accumulation of glycerophosphodiesters (GPDs)-the end products of glycerophospholipid catabolism. GPDs also accumulate in the lysosomes of CLN3-deficient cultured cells and we show that CLN3 is required for their lysosomal egress. Loss of CLN3 also disrupts glycerophospholipid catabolism in the lysosome. Finally, we found elevated levels of glycerophosphoinositol in the cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Batten disease, suggesting the potential use of glycerophosphoinositol as a disease biomarker. Our results show that CLN3 is required for the lysosomal clearance of GPDs and reveal Batten disease as a neurodegenerative LSD with a defect in glycerophospholipid metabolism.
PXD034402	36131112	Human Hepatic Transporter Signature Peptides for Quantitative Targeted Absolute Proteomics: Selection, Digestion Efficiency, and Peptide Stability. 	Digestion time course of human liver plasma membrane	DIA, SWATH, liver	PURPOSE: Quantitative targeted absolute proteomics (QTAP) quantifies proteins by measuring the signature peptides produced from target proteins by trypsin digestion. The selection of signature peptides is critical for reliable peptide quantification. The purpose of this study was to comprehensively assess the digestion efficiency and stability of tryptic peptides and to identify optimal signature peptides for human hepatic transporters and membrane marker proteins. METHODS: The plasma membrane fraction of the human liver was digested at different time points and the peptides were comprehensively quantified using quantitative proteomics. Transporters and membrane markers were quantified using the signature peptides by QTAP. RESULTS: Tryptic peptides were classified into clusters with low digestion efficiency, low stability, and high digestion efficiency and stability. Using the cluster information, we found that a proline residue next to the digestion site or the peptide position in or close to the transmembrane domains lowers digestion efficiency. A peptide containing cysteine at the N-terminus or arginine-glycine lowers peptide stability. Based on this information and the time course of peptide quantification, optimal signature peptides were identified for human hepatic transporters and membrane markers. The quantification of transporters with multiple signature peptides yielded consistent absolute values with less than 30% of coefficient variants in human liver microsomes and homogenates. CONCLUSIONS: The signature peptides selected in the present study enabled the reliable quantification of human hepatic transporters. The QTAP protocol using these optimal signature peptides provides quantitative data on hepatic transporters usable for integrated pharmacokinetic studies.
PXD033031	36131238	Transcription and proteome changes involved in re-innervation muscle following nerve crush in rats. 	re-innervation muscle in nerve crush rats	rats, re-innervation	Severe peripheral nerve injury leads to the irreparable disruption of nerve fibers. This leads to disruption of synapses with the designated muscle, which consequently go through progressive atrophy and damage of muscle function. The molecular mechanism that underlies the re-innervation process has yet to be evaluated using proteomics or transcriptomics. In the present study, multi-dimensional data were therefore integrated with transcriptome and proteome profiles in order to investigate the mechanism of re-innervation in muscles. Two simulated nerve injury muscle models in the rat tibial nerve were compared: the nerve was either cut (denervated, DN group) or crushed but with the nerve sheath intact (re-innervated, RN group). The control group had a preserved and intact tibial nerve. At 4 weeks, the RN group showed better tibial nerve function and recovery of muscle atrophy compared to the DN group. As the high expression of Myh3, Postn, Col6a1 and Cfi, the RN group demonstrated superior re-innervation as well. Both differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and proteins (DEPs) were enriched in the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) signaling pathway, as well as the energy metabolism. This study provides basic information regarding DEGs and DEPs during re-innervation-induced muscle atrophy. Furthermore, the crucial genes and proteins can be detected as possible treatment targets in the future.
PXD036394	36134711	LncRNA-Smad7 mediates cross-talk between Nodal/TGF-beta and BMP signaling to regulate cell fate determination of pluripotent and multipotent cells. 	LncRNA-Smad7 mediates cross-talk between Nodal/TGF-beta and BMP signaling to regulate cell fate determination of pluripotent and multipotent cells	mouse LC-MS/MS mESCs ChIRP	Transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) superfamily proteins are potent regulators of cellular development and differentiation. Nodal/Activin/TGF-beta and BMP ligands are both present in the intra- and extracellular milieu during early development, and cross-talk between these two branches of developmental signaling is currently the subject of intense research focus. Here, we show that the Nodal induced lncRNA-Smad7 regulates cell fate determination via repression of BMP signaling in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs). Depletion of lncRNA-Smad7 dramatically impairs cardiomyocyte differentiation in mESCs. Moreover, lncRNA-Smad7 represses Bmp2 expression through binding with the Bmp2 promoter region via (CA)12-repeats that forms an R-loop. Importantly, Bmp2 knockdown rescues defects in cardiomyocyte differentiation induced by lncRNA-Smad7 knockdown. Hence, lncRNA-Smad7 antagonizes BMP signaling in mESCs, and similarly regulates cell fate determination between osteocyte and myocyte formation in C2C12 mouse myoblasts. Moreover, lncRNA-Smad7 associates with hnRNPK in mESCs and hnRNPK binds at the Bmp2 promoter, potentially contributing to Bmp2 expression repression. The antagonistic effects between Nodal/TGF-beta and BMP signaling via lncRNA-Smad7 described in this work provides a framework for understanding cell fate determination in early development.
PXD033590	36135623	Evidencing New Roles for the Glycosyl-Transferase Cps1 in the Phytopathogenic Fungus Botrytis cinerea. 	Comparative proteomic analysis of the exoproteome of a wild type and cps1 mutant strains of the filamentous fungus Botrytis cinerea.	Botrytis cinerea, Fungal cell wall, Secretomics.	The fungal cell wall occupies a central place in the interaction between fungi and their environment. This study focuses on the role of the putative polysaccharide synthase Cps1 in the physiology, development and virulence of the grey mold-causing agent Botrytis cinerea. Deletion of the Bccps1 gene does not affect the germination of the conidia (asexual spores) or the early mycelial development, but it perturbs hyphal expansion after 24 h, revealing a two-phase hyphal development that has not been reported so far. It causes a severe reduction of mycelial growth in a solid medium and modifies hyphal aggregation into pellets in liquid cultures. It strongly impairs plant penetration, plant colonization and the formation of sclerotia (survival structures). Loss of the BcCps1 protein associates with a decrease in glucans and glycoproteins in the fungus cell wall and the up-accumulation of 132 proteins in the mutant's exoproteome, among which are fungal cell wall enzymes. This is accompanied by an increased fragility of the mutant mycelium, an increased sensitivity to some environmental stresses and a reduced adhesion to plant surface. Taken together, the results support a significant role of Cps1 in the cell wall biology of B. cinerea.
PXD035019	36135690	Biotransformation of the Fluoroquinolone, Levofloxacin, by the White-Rot Fungus Coriolopsis gallica. 	Shotgun proteomic analysis of the secretomes from white-rot fungus Coriolopsis gallica in presence or absence of levofloxacin.	antibiotic, degradative enzymes, exoproteome, fluoroquinolone, fungus, secretome	The wastewater from hospitals, pharmaceutical industries and more generally human and animal dejections leads to environmental releases of antibiotics that cause severe problems for all living organisms. The aim of this study was to investigate the capacity of three fungal strains to biotransform the fluoroquinolone levofloxacin. The degradation processes were analyzed in solid and liquid media. Among the three fungal strains tested, Coriolopsis gallica strain CLBE55 (BRFM 3473) showed the highest removal efficiency, with a 15% decrease in antibiogram zone of inhibition for Escherichia coli cultured in solid medium and 25% degradation of the antibiotic in liquid medium based on high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Proteomic analysis suggested that laccases and dye-decolorizing peroxidases such as extracellular enzymes could be involved in levofloxacin degradation, with a putative major role for laccases. Degradation products were proposed based on mass spectrometry analysis, and annotation suggested that the main product of biotransformation of levofloxacin by Coriolopsis gallica is an N-oxidized derivative.
PXD033645	36136114	O-Glycoproteomic analysis of engineered heavily glycosylated fusion proteins using nanoHILIC-MS. 	O-Glycoproteomic Analysis of Engineered Heavily-Glycosylated Fusion Proteins using NanoHILIC-MS	fusion proteins, glycoproteomics	Recombinant protein engineering design affects therapeutic properties including protein efficacy, safety, and immunogenicity. Importantly, glycosylation modulates glycoprotein therapeutic pharmacokinetics, pharmacodynamics, and effector functions. Furthermore, the development of fusion proteins requires in-depth characterization of the protein integrity and its glycosylation to evaluate their critical quality attributes. Fc-fusion proteins can be modified by complex glycosylation on the active peptide, the fragment crystallizable (Fc) domain, and the linker peptides. Moreover, the type of glycosylation and the glycan distribution at a given glycosite depend on the host cell line and the expression system conditions that significantly impact safety and efficacy. Because of the inherent heterogeneity of glycosylation, it is necessary to assign glycan structural detail for glycoprotein quality control. Using conventional reversed-phase LC-MS methods, the different glycoforms at a given glycosite elute over a narrow retention time window, and glycopeptide ionization is suppressed by co-eluting non-modified peptides. To overcome this drawback, we used nanoHILIC-MS to characterize the complex glycosylation of UTI-Fc, a fusion protein that greatly increases the half-life of ulinastatin. By this methodology, we identified and characterized ulinastatin glycopeptides at the Fc domain and linker peptide. The results described herein demonstrate the advantages of nanoHILIC-MS to elucidate glycan features on glycotherapeutics that fail to be detected using traditional reversed-phase glycoproteomics.
PXD014661	36136309	Identification of Inflammatory Proteomics Networks of Toll-like Receptor 4 through Immunoprecipitation-Based Chemical Cross-Linking Proteomics. 	Identification of Toll-like receptor 4 interacting partner through immunoprecipitation-based chemical cross-linking proteomics	HEK293, LPS, Statin, TLR, Toll Like Receptor	Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) is a receptor on an immune cell that can recognize the invasion of bacteria through their attachment with bacterial lipopolysaccharides (LPS). Hence, LPS is a pro-immune response stimulus. On the other hand, statins are lipid-lowering drugs and can also lower immune cell responses. We used human embryonic kidney (HEK 293) cells engineered to express HA-tagged TLR-4 upon treatment with LPS, statin, and both statin and LPS to understand the effect of pro- and anti-inflammatory responses. We performed a monoclonal antibody (mAb) directed co-immunoprecipitation (CO-IP) of HA-tagged TLR4 and its interacting proteins in the HEK 293 extracted proteins. We utilized an ETD cleavable chemical cross-linker to capture weak and transient interactions with TLR4 protein. We tryptic digested immunoprecipitated and cross-linked proteins on beads, followed by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis of the peptides. Thus, we utilized the label-free quantitation technique to measure the relative expression of proteins between treated and untreated samples. We identified 712 proteins across treated and untreated samples and performed protein network analysis using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software to reveal their protein networks. After filtering and evaluating protein expression, we identified macrophage myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate (MARCKSL1) and creatine kinase proteins as a potential part of the inflammatory networks of TLR4. The results assumed that MARCKSL1 and creatine kinase proteins might be associated with a statin-induced anti-inflammatory response due to possible interaction with the TLR4.
PXD034851	36136311	Viral Biomarker Detection and Validation Using MALDI Mass Spectrometry Imaging (MSI). 	Viral biomarker detection and validation using MALDI Mass Spectrometry Imaging (MSI)	MALDI, Mass Spectrometry Imaging, Peptide identification	(1) Background: MALDI imaging is a technique that still largely depends on time of flight (TOF)-based instrument such as the Bruker UltrafleXtreme. While capable of performing targeted MS/MS, these instruments are unable to perform fragmentation while imaging a tissue section necessitating the reliance of MS1 values for peptide level identifications. With this premise in mind, we have developed a hybrid bioinformatic/image-based method for the identification and validation of viral biomarkers. (2) Methods: Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded (FFPE) mouse samples were sectioned, mounted and prepared for mass spectrometry imaging using our well-established methods. Peptide identification was achieved by first extracting confident images corresponding to theoretical viral peptides. Next, those masses were used to perform a Peptide Mmass Fingerprint (PMF) searched against known viral FASTA sequences against a background mouse FASTA database. Finally, a correlational analysis was performed with imaging data to confirm pixel-by-pixel colocalization and intensity of viral peptides. (3) Results: 14 viral peptides were successfully identified with significant PMF Scores and a correlational result of >0.79 confirming the presence of the virus and distinguishing it from the background mouse proteins. (4) Conclusions: this novel approach leverages the power of mass spectrometry imaging and provides confident identifications for viral proteins without requiring MS/MS using simple MALDI Time Of Flight/Time Of Flight (TOF/TOF) instrumentation.
PXD035933	36136472	Fractionated Proton Irradiation Does Not Impair Hippocampal-Dependent Short-Term or Spatial Memory in Female Mice. 	Fractionated Proton Irradiation does not Impair Hippocampal Dependent Short Term or Spatial Memory in Female Mice	behavior, hippocampus, radiation, space	The environment outside the Earth's protective magnetosphere is a much more threatening and complex space environment. The dominant causes for radiation exposure, solar particle events and galactic cosmic rays, contain high-energy protons. In space, astronauts need healthy and highly functioning cognitive abilities, of which the hippocampus plays a key role. Therefore, understanding the effects of (1)H exposure on hippocampal-dependent cognition is vital for developing mitigative strategies and protective countermeasures for future missions. To investigate these effects, we subjected 6-month-old female CD1 mice to 0.75 Gy fractionated (1)H (250 MeV) whole-body irradiation at the NASA Space Radiation Laboratory. The cognitive performance of the mice was tested 3 months after irradiation using Y-maze and Morris water maze tests. Both sham-irradiated and (1)H-irradiated mice significantly preferred exploration of the novel arm compared to the familiar and start arms, indicating intact spatial and short-term memory. Both groups statistically spent more time in the target quadrant, indicating spatial memory retention. There were no significant differences in neurogenic and gliogenic cell counts after irradiation. In addition, proteomic analysis revealed no significant upregulation or downregulation of proteins related to behavior, neurological disease, or neural morphology. Our data suggests (1)H exposure does not impair hippocampal-dependent spatial or short-term memory in female mice.
PXD030749	36138777	A High-Throughput Search for SFXN1 Physical Partners Led to the Identification of ATAD3, HSD10 and TIM50. 	Identification of SFXN1 partners LC-MSMS	CoIP/LC-MSMS, MCF-7, Mitochondria	Sideroflexins (SFXN, SLC56) are a family of evolutionarily conserved mitochondrial carriers potentially involved in iron homeostasis. One member of the SFXN family is SFXN1, recently identified as a human mitochondrial serine transporter. However, little is known about the SFXN1 interactome, necessitating a high-throughput search to better characterize SFXN1 mitochondrial functions. Via co-immunoprecipitation followed by shotgun mass spectrometry (coIP-MS), we identified 96 putative SFXN1 interactors in the MCF7 human cell line. Our in silico analysis of the SFXN1 interactome highlights biological processes linked to mitochondrial organization, electron transport chains and transmembrane transport. Among the potential physical partners, ATAD3A and 17beta-HSD10, two proteins associated with neurological disorders, were confirmed using different human cell lines. Nevertheless, further work will be needed to investigate the significance of these interactions.
PXD031276	36139350	Proteome and Glycoproteome Analyses Reveal the Protein N-Linked Glycosylation Specificity of STT3A and STT3B. 	Proteome and glycoproteome analyses reveal the proteinProteome and glycoproteome analyses reveal the protein N-linked glycosylation specificity of STT3A and STT3B N-linked glycosylation specificity of STT3A and STT3B	OST, glycoproteomics,mass spectrometry	STT3A and STT3B are the main catalytic subunits of the oligosaccharyltransferase complex (OST-A and OST-B in mammalian cells), which primarily mediate cotranslational and post-translocational N-linked glycosylation, respectively. To determine the specificity of STT3A and STT3B, we performed proteomic and glycoproteomic analyses in the gene knock-out (KO) and wild-type HEK293 cells. In total, 3961 proteins, 4265 unique N-linked intact glycopeptides and 629 glycosites representing 349 glycoproteins were identified from all these cells. Deletion of the STT3A gene had a greater impact on the protein expression than deletion of STT3B, especially on glycoproteins. In addition, total mannosylated N-glycans were reduced and fucosylated N-glycans were increased in STT3A-KO cells, which were caused by the differential expression of glycan-related enzymes. Interestingly, hyperglycosylated proteins were identified in KO cells, and the hyperglycosylation of ENPL was caused by the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress due to the STT3A deletion. Furthermore, the increased expression of the ATF6 and PERK indicated that the unfolded protein response also happened in STT3A-KO cells. Overall, the specificity of STT3A and STT3B revealed that defects in the OST subunit not only broadly affect N-linked glycosylation of the protein but also affect protein expression.
PXD035884	36139528	Assessment of a Large-Scale Unbiased Malignant Pleural Effusion Proteomics Study of a Real-Life Cohort. 	Unbiased undepleted malignant pleural effusion proteomics study	biomarker, malignant, pleural effusion, real life clinical cohort	BACKGROUND: Pleural effusion (PE) is common in advanced-stage lung cancer patients and is related to poor prognosis. Identification of cancer cells is the standard method for the diagnosis of a malignant PE (MPE). However, it only has moderate sensitivity. Thus, more sensitive diagnostic tools are urgently needed. METHODS: The present study aimed to discover potential protein targets to distinguish malignant pleural effusion (MPE) from other non-malignant pathologies. We have collected PE from 97 patients to explore PE proteomes by applying state-of-the-art liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) to identify potential biomarkers that correlate with immunohistochemistry assessment of tumor biopsy or with survival data. Functional analyses were performed to elucidate functional differences in PE proteins in malignant and benign samples. Results were integrated into a clinical risk prediction model to identify likely malignant cases. Sensitivity, specificity, and negative predictive value were calculated. RESULTS: In total, 1689 individual proteins were identified by MS-based proteomics analysis of the 97 PE samples, of which 35 were diagnosed as malignant. A comparison between MPE and benign PE (BPE) identified 58 differential regulated proteins after correction of the p-values for multiple testing. Furthermore, functional analysis revealed an up-regulation of matrix intermediate filaments and cellular movement-related proteins. Additionally, gene ontology analysis identified the involvement of metabolic pathways such as glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, pyruvate metabolism and cysteine and methionine metabolism. CONCLUSION: This study demonstrated a partial least squares regression model with an area under the curve of 98 and an accuracy of 0.92 when evaluated on the holdout test data set. Furthermore, highly significant survival markers were identified (e.g., PSME1 with a log-rank of 1.68 x 10(-6)).
PXD025949	36139779	Serum Proteomic and Oxidative Modification Profiling in Mice Exposed to Total Body X-Irradiation. 	Quantification of oxidative modification of mouse serum albumin by MRM-HR	MRM-HR, serum	The details of the dose-dependent response of serum proteins exposed to ionizing radiation, especially the oxidative modification response in amino acid sequences of albumin, the most abundant protein, are unknown. Thus, a proteomic analysis of the serum components from mice exposed to total body X-irradiation (TBI) ranging from 0.5 Gy to 3.0 Gy was conducted using LC-MS/MS. The analysis of oxidative modification sequences of albumin (mOMSA) in TBI mouse serum revealed significant moderate or strong correlations between the X-irradiation exposure dose and modification of 11 mOMSAs (especially the 97th, 267th and 499th lysine residues, 159th methionine residue and 287th tyrosine residues). In the case of X-irradiation of serum alone, significant correlations were also found in the 14 mOMSAs. In addition, a dose-dependent variation in six proteins (Angiotensinogen, Odorant-binding protein 1a, Serine protease inhibitor A3K, Serum paraoxonase/arylesterase 1, Prothrombin and Epidermal growth factor receptor) was detected in the serum of mice exposed to TBI. These findings suggest the possibility that the protein variation and serum albumin oxidative modification responses found in exposed individuals are important indicators for considering the effects of radiation on living organisms, along with DNA damage, and suggests their possible application as biomarkers of radiation dose estimation.
PXD035515	36140585	A Comprehensive 2D-LC/MS/MS Profile of the Normal Human Urinary Metabolome. 	Comprehensive 2D-LC/MS/MS profile of normal human urinary metabolome	human urinary metabolome	Profiling bodily fluids is crucial for monitoring and discovering metabolic markers of disease. In this study, a comprehensive analysis approach based on 1D-LC-MS/MS and 2D-LC-MS/MS was applied to profile normal human urine metabolites from 348 children and 315 adults. A total of 2357 metabolites were identified, including 1831 endogenous metabolites and 526 exogenous ones. In total, 1005 metabolites were identified in urine for the first time. The urinary metabolites were mainly involved in amino acid metabolism, small molecule biochemistry, lipid metabolism and cellular compromise. The comparison of adult's and children's urine metabolomes showed adults urine had more metabolites involved in immune response than children's, but the function of binding of melatonin, which belongs to the endocrine system, showed a higher expression in children. The urine metabolites detected by the 1D-LC-MS/MS method were mainly related to amino acid metabolism and lipid metabolism, and the 2D-LC-MS/MS method not only explored metabolites from 1D-LC-MS/MS but also metabolites related to cell signaling, cell function and maintenance, etc. Our analysis comprehensively profiled and functionally annotated the metabolome of normal human urine, which would benefit the application of urinary metabolome to clinical research.
PXD031669	36142271	Proteomic and Biochemical Approaches Elucidate the Role of Millimeter-Wave Irradiation in Wheat Growth under Flooding Stress. 	SK13_Wheat: Proteomic and biological analyses reveal the effect on growth under flooding stress of wheat irradiated with millimeter waves.	flooding, millimeter waves, wheat	Flooding impairs wheat growth and considerably affects yield productivity worldwide. On the other hand, irradiation with millimeter waves enhanced the growth of chickpea and soybean under flooding stress. In the current work, millimeter-wave irradiation notably enhanced wheat growth, even under flooding stress. To explore the protective mechanisms of millimeter-wave irradiation on wheat under flooding, quantitative proteomics was performed. According to functional categorization, proteins whose abundances were changed significantly with and without irradiation under flooding stress were correlated to glycolysis, reactive-oxygen species scavenging, cell organization, and hormonal metabolism. Immunoblot analysis confirmed that fructose-bisphosphate aldolase and beta tubulin accumulated in root and leaf under flooding; however, even in such condition, their accumulations were recovered to the control level in irradiated wheat. The abundance of ascorbate peroxidase increased in leaf under flooding and recovered to the control level in irradiated wheat. Because the abundance of auxin-related proteins changed with millimeter-wave irradiation, auxin was applied to wheat under flooding, resulting in the application of auxin improving its growth, even in such condition. These results suggest that millimeter-wave irradiation on wheat seeds improves the recovery of plant growth from flooding via the regulation of glycolysis, reactive-oxygen species scavenging, and cell organization. Additionally, millimeter-wave irradiation could promote tolerance against flooding through the regulation of auxin contents in wheat.
PXD036068	36142365	Proteomic Analysis Identifies Molecular Players and Biological Processes Specific to SARS-CoV-2 Exposure in Endothelial Cells. 	Proteomic analysis identifies molecular players and biological processes specific to SARS-CoV-2 exposure in endothelial cells	Covid-19, Endothelial Cells, HUVEC, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2	Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has been responsible for the severe pandemic of acute respiratory disease, coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), experienced in the 21st century. The clinical manifestations range from mild symptoms to abnormal blood coagulation and severe respiratory failure. In severe cases, COVID-19 manifests as a thromboinflammatory disease. Damage to the vascular compartment caused by SARS-CoV-2 has been linked to thrombosis, triggered by an enhanced immune response. The molecular mechanisms underlying endothelial activation have not been fully elucidated. We aimed to identify the proteins correlated to the molecular response of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) after exposure to SARS-CoV-2, which might help to unravel the molecular mechanisms of endothelium activation in COVID-19. In this direction, we exposed HUVECs to SARS-CoV-2 and analyzed the expression of specific cellular receptors, and changes in the proteome of HUVECs at different time points. We identified that HUVECs exhibit non-productive infection without cytopathic effects, in addition to the lack of expression of specific cell receptors known to be essential for SARS-CoV-2 entry into cells. We highlighted the enrichment of the protein SUMOylation pathway and the increase in SUMO2, which was confirmed by orthogonal assays. In conclusion, proteomic analysis revealed that the exposure to SARS-CoV-2 induced oxidative stress and changes in protein abundance and pathways enrichment that resembled endothelial dysfunction.
PXD036341	36142452	TRIB3 Modulates PPARgamma-Mediated Growth Inhibition by Interfering with the MLL Complex in Breast Cancer Cells. 	Trib3 modulates PPARï§-mediated growth inhibition by interfering with the MLL complex in breast cancer cells	MLL complex, PPARï§, Trib3, breast cancer cells	Aberrant expression or activity of proteins are amongst the best understood mechanisms that can drive cancer initiation and progression, as well as therapy resistance. TRIB3, a member of the Tribbles family of pseudokinases, is often dysregulated in cancer and has been associated with breast cancer initiation and metastasis formation. However, the underlying mechanisms by which TRIB3 contributes to these events are unclear. In this study, we demonstrate that TRIB3 regulates the expression of PPARgamma, a transcription factor that has gained attention as a potential drug target in breast cancer for its antiproliferative actions. Proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses together with classical biochemical assays indicate that TRIB3 interferes with the MLL complex and reduces MLL-mediated H3K4 trimethylation of the PPARG locus, thereby reducing PPARgamma mRNA expression. Consequently, the overexpression of TRIB3 blunts the antiproliferative effect of PPARgamma ligands in breast cancer cells, while reduced TRIB3 expression gives the opposite effect. In conclusion, our data implicate TRIB3 in epigenetic gene regulation and suggest that expression levels of this pseudokinase may serve as a predictor of successful experimental treatments with PPARgamma ligands in breast cancer.
PXD035320	36142717	Extended N-Terminal Acetyltransferase Naa50 in Filamentous Fungi Adds to Naa50 Diversity. 	Chaetomium thermophilum Naa50 and Naa15 TMT-labeled LC-MSMS	Naa50 Naa15 LC-MSMS TMT Chaetomium thermophilum	Most eukaryotic proteins are N-terminally acetylated by a set of Nalpha acetyltransferases (NATs). This ancient and ubiquitous modification plays a fundamental role in protein homeostasis, while mutations are linked to human diseases and phenotypic defects. In particular, Naa50 features species-specific differences, as it is inactive in yeast but active in higher eukaryotes. Together with NatA, it engages in NatE complex formation for cotranslational acetylation. Here, we report Naa50 homologs from the filamentous fungi Chaetomium thermophilum and Neurospora crassa with significant N- and C-terminal extensions to the conserved GNAT domain. Structural and biochemical analyses show that CtNaa50 shares the GNAT structure and substrate specificity with other homologs. However, in contrast to previously analyzed Naa50 proteins, it does not form NatE. The elongated N-terminus increases Naa50 thermostability and binds to dynein light chain protein 1, while our data suggest that conserved positive patches in the C-terminus allow for ribosome binding independent of NatA. Our study provides new insights into the many facets of Naa50 and highlights the diversification of NATs during evolution.
PXD036435	36142880	Proteomic Characterization of Virulence Factors and Related Proteins in Enterococcus Strains from Dairy and Fermented Food Products. 	Proteomic Characterization of Virulence Factors and Related Proteins in Enterococcus strains from Dairy and Fermented Food Products	Enterococcus spp., LC-ESI-MS/MS, antibiotic pro-duction, antibiotic resistance peptides, dairy, fermented food products, virulence factors	Enterococcus species are Gram-positive bacteria that are normal gastrointestinal tract inhabitants that play a beneficial role in the dairy and meat industry. However, Enterococcus species are also the causative agents of health care-associated infections that can be found in dairy and fermented food products. Enterococcal infections are led by strains of Enterococcus faecalis and Enterococcus faecium, which are often resistant to antibiotics and biofilm formation. Enterococci virulence factors attach to host cells and are also involved in immune evasion. LC-MS/MS-based methods offer several advantages compared with other approaches because one can directly identify microbial peptides without the necessity of inferring conclusions based on other approaches such as genomics tools. The present study describes the use of liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (LC-ESI-MS/MS) to perform a global shotgun proteomics characterization for opportunistic pathogenic Enterococcus from different dairy and fermented food products. This method allowed the identification of a total of 1403 nonredundant peptides, representing 1327 proteins. Furthermore, 310 of those peptides corresponded to proteins playing a direct role as virulence factors for Enterococcus pathogenicity. Virulence factors, antibiotic sensitivity, and proper identification of the enterococcal strain are required to propose an effective therapy. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD036435. Label-free quantification (LFQ) demonstrated that the majority of the high-abundance proteins corresponded to E. faecalis species. Therefore, the global proteomic repository obtained here can be the basis for further research into pathogenic Enterococcus species, thus facilitating the development of novel therapeutics.
PXD014188	36143193	Protein Succinylation and Malonylation as Potential Biomarkers in Schizophrenia. 	Investigating the Succinylome and Malonylome of Schizophrenia	antipsychotics, malonylation, mk-801, schizophrenia, succinylation	Two protein post-translational modifications, lysine succinylation and malonylation, are implicated in protein regulation, glycolysis, and energy metabolism. The precursors of these modifications, succinyl-CoA and malonyl-CoA, are key players in central metabolic processes. Both modification profiles have been proven to be responsive to metabolic stimuli, such as hypoxia. As mitochondrial dysfunction and metabolic dysregulation are implicated in schizophrenia and other psychiatric illnesses, these modification profiles have the potential to reveal yet another layer of protein regulation and can furthermore represent targets for biomarkers that are indicative of disease as well as its progression and treatment. In this work, data from shotgun mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics were compiled and analyzed to probe the succinylome and malonylome of postmortem brain tissue from patients with schizophrenia against controls and the human oligodendrocyte precursor cell line MO3.13 with the dizocilpine chemical model for schizophrenia, three antipsychotics, and co-treatments. Several changes in the succinylome and malonylome were seen in these comparisons, revealing these modifications to be a largely under-studied yet important form of protein regulation with broad potential applications.
PXD023808	36144346	Effect of Water Activity on Conidia Germination in Aspergillus flavus. 	Effect of water activity in Aspergillus flavus spore germination	Water activity Aspergillus flavus	In this study, we explored the mechanism underlying Aspergillus flavus conidia germination inhibited by decreased water activity. The impact of low water activity was analyzed at 4 h, 8 h and 12 h. Additionally, we demonstrated that low water activity affected cell shape and decreased cell sizes. Transcriptomics found numerous differentially expressed genes (DEGs) during the first 12 h of germination, with 654 DEGs observed among 4 h, 8 h and 12 h. In particular, more DEGs were detected at 8 h of germinating. Therefore, proteomics was performed at 8 h, and 209 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were speculated, with 94 up-regulated and 115 down-regulated. Combined analysis of KEGG of transcriptomics and proteomics demonstrated that the dominant pathways were nutrient metabolism and translation. We also found several DEGs and DEPs in the Mitogen Activated Protein Kinase (MAPK) pathway. Therefore, we concluded that low water activity inhibited conidia germination, causing unregular morphology. In addition, low water activity influenced expression of creA, TreB in carbohydrate metabolism, Clr4, RmtA in amino acid metabolism and RPL37, RPL3 in translation in Aspergillus flavus.
PXD031969	36144669	Correlates with Vaccine Protective Capacity and COVID-19 Disease Symptoms Identified by Serum Proteomics in Vaccinated Individuals. 	Serum proteomics covid-19 vaccine	Biomarker, COVID-19, Covid-19, Immunology, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, Vaccine	In the last two years, the coronavirus disease 19 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has been a scientific and social challenge worldwide. Vaccines have been the most effective intervention for reducing virus transmission and disease severity. However, genetic virus variants are still circulating among vaccinated individuals with different disease symptomatology. Understanding the protective- or disease-associated mechanisms in vaccinated individuals is relevant to advances in vaccine development and implementation. To address this objective, serum-protein profiles were characterized by quantitative proteomics and data-analysis algorithms in four cohorts of uninfected and SARS-CoV-2-infected vaccinated individuals with asymptomatic, non-severe, and severe disease symptomatology. The results show that immunoglobulins were the most overrepresented proteins in infected cohorts when compared to PCR-negative individuals. The immunoglobulin profile varied between different infected cohorts and correlated with protective- or disease-associated capacity. Overrepresented immunoglobulins in PCR-positive individuals correlated with protective response against SARS-CoV-2, other viruses, and thrombosis in asymptomatic cases. In non-severe cases, correlates of protection against SARS-CoV-2 and HBV together with risk of myasthenia gravis and allergy and autoantibodies were observed. Patients with severe symptoms presented risk for allergy, chronic idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura, and autoantibodies. The analysis of underrepresented immunoglobulins in PCR-positive compared to PCR-negative individuals identified vaccine-induced protective epitopes in various coronavirus proteins, including the spike receptor-binding domain RBD. Non-immunoglobulin proteins were associated with COVID-19 symptoms and biological processes. These results evidence host-associated differences in response to vaccination and the possibility of improving vaccine efficacy against SARS-CoV-2.
PXD022502	36144759	Comparative Proteomic Analysis of Potato Roots from Resistant and Susceptible Cultivars to Spongospora subterranea Zoospore Root Attachment In Vitro. 	Identification of root surface proteins from potato strains susceptible and resistant to Spongospora subterranea infection	Spongospora subterranea, disease resistance, potato, zoospore	Potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) exhibits broad variations in cultivar resistance to tuber and root infections by the soilborne, obligate biotrophic pathogen Spongospora subterranea. Host resistance has been recognised as an important approach in potato disease management, whereas zoospore root attachment has been identified as an effective indicator for the host resistance to Spongospora root infection. However, the mechanism of host resistance to zoospore root attachment is currently not well understood. To identify the potential basis for host resistance to S. subterranea at the molecular level, twelve potato cultivars differing in host resistance to zoospore root attachment were used for comparative proteomic analysis. In total, 3723 proteins were quantified from root samples across the twelve cultivars using a data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry approach. Statistical analysis identified 454 proteins that were significantly more abundant in the resistant cultivars; 626 proteins were more abundant in the susceptible cultivars. In resistant cultivars, functional annotation of the proteomic data indicated that Gene Ontology terms related to the oxidative stress and metabolic processes were significantly over-represented. KEGG pathway analysis identified that the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathway was associated with the resistant cultivars, suggesting the potential role of lignin biosynthesis in the host resistance to S. subterranea. Several enzymes involved in pectin biosynthesis and remodelling, such as pectinesterase and pectin acetylesterase, were more abundant in the resistant cultivars. Further investigation of the potential role of root cell wall pectin revealed that the pectinase treatment of roots resulted in a significant reduction in zoospore root attachment in both resistant and susceptible cultivars. This study provides a comprehensive proteome-level overview of resistance to S. subterranea zoospore root attachment across twelve potato cultivars and has identified a potential role for cell wall pectin in regulating zoospore root attachment.
PXD035499	36146698	Identification of MHC-I-Presented Porcine Respiratory and Reproductive Syndrome Virus (PRRSV) Peptides Reveals Immunogenic Epitopes within Several Non-Structural Proteins Recognized by CD8(+) T Cells. 	Identification of MHC-I presented porcine respiratory and re-productive syndrome virus (PRRSV) peptides reveals immu-nogenic epitopes within several non-structural proteins recog-nized by CD8+ T cells	Arteriviridae, CD8+ T cells, PRRSV, Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus, epitopes, im-munopeptidome, intracellu, major histocompatibility complex class I, restimulation, swine leukocyte antigen class I	Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) is one of the most relevant porcine pathogens worldwide. Active control of the disease relies on modified live virus vaccines (MLVs), as most inactivated vaccines provide very limited protection. Neutralizing antibodies occur late in infection; therefore, CD8(+) T cells are considered important correlates of protection and are a frequent focus of investigation. Our aim was to identify viral peptides naturally bound by the class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC-I) and to confirm their ability to stimulate CD8(+) T cells. For this purpose, we immunoprecipitated MHC-I/peptide complexes of PRRSV (strain AUT15-33) -infected cells (SLA-I Lr-Hp 35.0/24 mod) to isolate the viral epitopes and analyzed them with liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Furthermore, we employed these identified peptides to stimulate peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of previously PRRSV-infected pigs and measured the PRRSV-specific CD8(+) T-cell response with an intracellular cytokine staining (ICS). Our data revealed that PRRSV non-structural proteins (NSPs), encoded in open reading frame 1a and 1b (ORF1), present the major source of MHC-I-presented peptides. Additionally, we show that our identified epitopes are able to trigger IFNgamma responses in vitro. These findings are a basis for understanding the proteasomal degradation of PRRSV proteins, the cellular ability to display them via MHC-I, and their potential to restimulate CD8(+) T cells.
PXD029146	36146834	Human Cytomegalovirus Modifies Placental Small Extracellular Vesicle Composition to Enhance Infection of Fetal Neural Cells In Vitro. 	Human Cytomegalovirus modifies placental small extracellular vesicle secretion and composition to enhance infection of fetal recipient cells	congenital infection, cytotrophoblast, extracellular vesicles, hCMV, neural stem cells, placenta	Although placental small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) are extensively studied in the context of pregnancy, little is known about their role during viral congenital infection, especially at the beginning of pregnancy. In this study, we examined the consequences of human cytomegalovirus (hCMV) infection on sEVs production, composition, and function using an immortalized human cytotrophoblast cell line derived from first trimester placenta. By combining complementary approaches of biochemistry, electron microscopy, and quantitative proteomic analysis, we showed that hCMV infection increases the yield of sEVs produced by cytotrophoblasts and modifies their protein content towards a potential proviral phenotype. We further demonstrate that sEVs secreted by hCMV-infected cytotrophoblasts potentiate infection in naive recipient cells of fetal origin, including human neural stem cells. Importantly, these functional consequences are also observed with sEVs prepared from an ex vivo model of infected histocultures from early placenta. Based on these findings, we propose that placental sEVs could be important actors favoring viral dissemination to the fetal brain during hCMV congenital infection.
PXD035797	36147318	Dandelion extract inhibits triple-negative breast cancer cell proliferation by interfering with glycerophospholipids and unsaturated fatty acids metabolism. 	Dandelion extract inhibits triple-negative breast cancer cell proliferation by interfering with glycerophospholipids and unsaturated fatty acids metabolism	Dandelion extract, Glycerophospholipid metabolism, Triple-negative breast cancer, choline kinase alpha., multi-omics	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is the most aggressive breast cancer subtype with limited treatment options and a poor prognosis. TNBC exists widely reprogrammed lipid metabolism, and its metabolic-associated proteins and oncometabolites are promising as potential therapeutic targets. Dandelion (Taraxacum mongolicum) is a classical herbal medicine used to treat breast diseases based on traditional Chinese medicine theory and was reported to have antitumor effects and lipid regulatory capacities. Our previous study showed that dandelion extract was effective against TNBC. However, whether dandelion extract could regulate the lipid metabolisms of TNBC and exert its antitumor effects via interfering with lipids metabolism remained unclear. In this study, an integrated approach combined with network pharmacology and multi-omics techniques (including proteomics, metabolomics, and lipidomics) was performed to investigate the potential regulatory mechanisms of dandelion extract against TNBC. We first determined the antitumor effects of dandelion extract in vitro and in vivo. Then, network pharmacology analysis speculated the antitumor effects involving various metabolic processes, and the multi-omics results of the cells, tumor tissues, and plasma revealed the changes in the metabolites and metabolic-associated proteins after dandelion extract treatment. The alteration of glycerophospholipids and unsaturated fatty acids were the most remarkable types of metabolites. Therefore, the metabolism of glycerophospholipids and unsaturated fatty acids, and their corresponding proteins CHKA and FADS2, were considered the primary regulatory pathways and biomarkers of dandelion extract against TNBC. Subsequently, experimental validation showed that dandelion extract decreased CHKA expression, leading to the inhibition of the PI3K/AKT pathway and its downstream targets, SREBP and FADS2. Finally, the molecular docking simulation suggested that picrasinoside F and luteolin in dandelion extract had the most highly binding scores with CHKA, indicating they may be the potential CHKA inhibitors to regulate glycerophospholipids metabolisms of TNBC. In conclusion, we confirmed the antitumor effects of dandelion extract against TNBC cells in vitro and demonstrated that dandelion extract could interfere with glycerophospholipids and unsaturated fatty acids metabolism via downregulating the CHKA expression and inhibiting PI3K/AKT/SREBP/FADS2 axis.
PXD027581	36147480	Mesenchymal stromal cell-derived extracellular vesicles afford neuroprotection by modulating PI3K/AKT pathway and calcium oscillations. 	Neuroprotective properties of Mesenchymal Stromal Cell-Derived Extracellular Vesicles in Models of Acute Brain Pathology	Extracellular vesicles, MSC, neuroprotection	Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) are widely recognized as potential effectors in neuroprotective therapy. The protective properties of MSC were considered to be associated with the secretion of extracellular vesicles (MSC-EV). We explored the effects of MSC-EV in vivo on models of traumatic and hypoxia-ischemia (HI) brain injury. Neuroprotective mechanisms triggered by MSC-EV were also studied in vitro using a primary neuroglial culture. Intranasal administration of MSC-EV reduced the volume of traumatic brain damage, correlating with a recovery of sensorimotor functions. Neonatal HI-induced brain damage was mitigated by the MSC-EV administration. This therapy also promoted the recovery of sensorimotor functions, implying enhanced neuroplasticity, and MSC-EV-induced growth of neurites in vitro supports this. In the in vitro ischemic model, MSC-EV prevented cell calcium (Ca(2+)) overload and subsequent cell death. In mixed neuroglial culture, MSC-EV induced inositol trisphosphate (IP3) receptor-related Ca(2+) oscillations in astrocytes were associated with resistance to calcium overload not only in astrocytes but also in co-cultured neurons, demonstrating intercellular positive crosstalk between neural cells. This implies that phosphatidylinositol 3-Kinase/AKT signaling is one of the main pathways in MSC-EV-mediated protection of neural cells exposed to ischemic challenge. Components of this pathway were identified among the most enriched categories in the MSC-EV proteome.
PXD036247	36148224	A role for whey acidic protein four-disulfide-core 12 (WFDC12) in the pathogenesis and development of psoriasis disease. 	WFDC12 psoriasis disease and Proteomics	WFDC12, keratinocytes, psoriasis, roteomics	Whey acidic protein four-disulfide core domain protein 12 (WFDC12) has been implicated in the pathogenesis of psoriasis but the specific molecular mechanism is not clearly defined. In this study, we found the expression of WFDC12 protein closely correlated with psoriasis. WFDC12 in keratinocyte might increase infiltration of Langerhans cells (LCs) and monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDDCs), up-regulating the co-stimulation molecular CD40/CD86. Th1 cells in lymph nodes were higher in K14-WFDC12 transgenic psoiasis-like mice. Meanwhile, the mRNA of IL-12 and IFN-gamma in the lesion skin was significantly increased in transgenic mice. Moreover, we found that the expression of the proteins that participated in the retinoic acid-related pathway and immune signaling pathway was more changed in the lesion skin of K14-WFDC12 transgenic psoriasis-like mice. Collectively, the results implied that WFDC12 might affect the activation of the retinoic acid signaling pathway and regulate the infiltration of DC cells in the skin lesions and lymph nodes, thereby inducing Th1 cells differentiation and increasing the secretion of IFN-gamma to exacerbate psoriasis in mice.
PXD021739	36149056	Consequences of PDGFRalpha(+) fibroblast reduction in adult murine hearts. 	Consequences of fibroblast ablation in adult murine hearts	Fibroblast Ablated, Hearts, Murine, N-terminomics, TAILS	Fibroblasts produce the majority of collagen in the heart and are thought to regulate extracellular matrix (ECM) turnover. Although fibrosis accompanies many cardiac pathologies and is generally deleterious, the role of fibroblasts in maintaining the basal ECM network and in fibrosis in vivo is poorly understood. We genetically ablated fibroblasts in mice to evaluate the impact on homeostasis of adult ECM and cardiac function after injury. Fibroblast-ablated mice demonstrated a substantive reduction in cardiac fibroblasts, but fibrillar collagen and the ECM proteome were not overtly altered when evaluated by quantitative mass spectrometry and N-terminomics. However, the distribution and quantity of collagen VI, microfibrillar collagen that forms an open network with the basement membrane, was reduced. In fibroblast-ablated mice, cardiac function was better preserved following angiotensin II/phenylephrine (AngII/PE)-induced fibrosis and myocardial infarction (MI). Analysis of cardiomyocyte function demonstrated altered sarcomere shortening and slowed calcium decline in both uninjured and AngII/PE-infused fibroblast-ablated mice. After MI, the residual resident fibroblasts responded to injury, albeit with reduced proliferation and numbers immediately after injury. These results indicate that the adult mouse heart tolerates a significant degree of fibroblast loss with a potentially beneficial impact on cardiac function after injury. The cardioprotective effect of controlled fibroblast reduction may have therapeutic value in heart disease.
PXD029805	36149789	In-depth proteomic analysis reveals unique subtype-specific signatures in human small-cell lung cancer. 	In-depth proteomic analyses reveal unique subtype-specific signatures in small cell lung cancer (part I: cell pellets)	SCLC, cell lines, molecular subtypes	BACKGROUND: Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) molecular subtypes have been primarily characterized based on the expression pattern of the following key transcription regulators: ASCL1 (SCLC-A), NEUROD1 (SCLC-N), POU2F3 (SCLC-P) and YAP1 (SCLC-Y). Here, we investigated the proteomic landscape of these molecular subsets with the aim to identify novel subtype-specific proteins of diagnostic and therapeutic relevance. METHODS: Pellets and cell media of 26 human SCLC cell lines were subjected to label-free shotgun proteomics for large-scale protein identification and quantitation, followed by in-depth bioinformatic analyses. Proteomic data were correlated with the cell lines' phenotypic characteristics and with public transcriptomic data of SCLC cell lines and tissues. RESULTS: Our quantitative proteomic data highlighted that four molecular subtypes are clearly distinguishable at the protein level. The cell lines exhibited diverse neuroendocrine and epithelial-mesenchymal characteristics that varied by subtype. A total of 367 proteins were identified in the cell pellet and 34 in the culture media that showed significant up- or downregulation in one subtype, including known druggable proteins and potential blood-based markers. Pathway enrichment analysis and parallel investigation of transcriptomics from SCLC cell lines outlined unique signatures for each subtype, such as upregulated oxidative phosphorylation in SCLC-A, DNA replication in SCLC-N, neurotrophin signalling in SCLC-P and epithelial-mesenchymal transition in SCLC-Y. Importantly, we identified the YAP1-driven subtype as the most distinct SCLC subgroup. Using sparse partial least squares discriminant analysis, we identified proteins that clearly distinguish four SCLC subtypes based on their expression pattern, including potential diagnostic markers for SCLC-Y (e.g. GPX8, PKD2 and UFO). CONCLUSIONS: We report for the first time, the protein expression differences among SCLC subtypes. By shedding light on potential subtype-specific therapeutic vulnerabilities and diagnostic biomarkers, our results may contribute to a better understanding of SCLC biology and the development of novel therapies.
PXD035182	36150385	SAMHD1 controls innate immunity by regulating condensation of immunogenic self RNA. 	SAMHD1 controls innate immunity by regulating condensation of immunogenic self RNA	Aicardi-Goutires syndrome (AGS), SAMHD1, innate immunity	Recognition of pathogen-derived foreign nucleic acids is central to innate immune defense. This requires discrimination between structurally highly similar self and nonself nucleic acids to avoid aberrant inflammatory responses as in the autoinflammatory disorder Aicardi-Goutieres syndrome (AGS). How vast amounts of self RNA are shielded from immune recognition to prevent autoinflammation is not fully understood. Here, we show that human SAM-domain- and HD-domain-containing protein 1 (SAMHD1), one of the AGS-causing genes, functions as a single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) 3'exonuclease, the lack of which causes cellular RNA accumulation. Increased ssRNA in cells leads to dissolution of RNA-protein condensates, which sequester immunogenic double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). Release of sequestered dsRNA from condensates triggers activation of antiviral type I interferon via retinoic-acid-inducible gene I-like receptors. Our results establish SAMHD1 as a key regulator of cellular RNA homeostasis and demonstrate that buffering of immunogenic self RNA by condensates regulates innate immune responses.
PXD035747	36151083	Intracellular energy controls dynamics of stress-induced ribonucleoprotein granules. 	Intracellular Energy Controls Dynamics of Stress-induced Ribonucleoprotein Granules Implicated in ALS/FTD	ALS/FTD, Energy metabolism, Protein homeostasis, Stress granule	Energy metabolism and membraneless organelles have been implicated in human diseases including neurodegeneration. How energy deficiency regulates ribonucleoprotein particles such as stress granules (SGs) is still unclear. Here we identified a unique type of granules induced by energy deficiency under physiological conditions and uncovered the mechanisms by which the dynamics of diverse stress-induced granules are regulated. Severe energy deficiency induced the rapid formation of energy deficiency-induced stress granules (eSGs) independently of eIF2alpha phosphorylation, whereas moderate energy deficiency delayed the clearance of conventional SGs. The formation of eSGs or the clearance of SGs was regulated by the mTOR-4EBP1-eIF4E pathway or eIF4A1, involving assembly of the eIF4F complex or RNA condensation, respectively. In neurons or brain organoids derived from patients carrying the C9orf72 repeat expansion associated with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD), the eSG formation was enhanced, and the clearance of conventional SGs was impaired. These results reveal a critical role for intracellular energy in the regulation of diverse granules and suggest that disruptions in energy-controlled granule dynamics may contribute to the pathogenesis of relevant diseases.
PXD036174	36151203	CNS myelination requires VAMP2/3-mediated membrane expansion in oligodendrocytes. 	VAMP2/3-dependent membrane proteome in oligodendrocytes	myelin, oligodendrocytes	Myelin is required for rapid nerve signaling and is emerging as a key driver of CNS plasticity and disease. How myelin is built and remodeled remains a fundamental question of neurobiology. Central to myelination is the ability of oligodendrocytes to add vast amounts of new cell membrane, expanding their surface areas by many thousand-fold. However, how oligodendrocytes add new membrane to build or remodel myelin is not fully understood. Here, we show that CNS myelin membrane addition requires exocytosis mediated by the vesicular SNARE proteins VAMP2/3. Genetic inactivation of VAMP2/3 in myelinating oligodendrocytes caused severe hypomyelination and premature death without overt loss of oligodendrocytes. Through live imaging, we discovered that VAMP2/3-mediated exocytosis drives membrane expansion within myelin sheaths to initiate wrapping and power sheath elongation. In conjunction with membrane expansion, mass spectrometry of oligodendrocyte surface proteins revealed that VAMP2/3 incorporates axon-myelin adhesion proteins that are collectively required to form nodes of Ranvier. Together, our results demonstrate that VAMP2/3-mediated membrane expansion in oligodendrocytes is indispensable for myelin formation, uncovering a cellular pathway that could sculpt myelination patterns in response to activity-dependent signals or be therapeutically targeted to promote regeneration in disease.
PXD032754	36151923	Integrative analysis in Pinus revealed long-term heat stress splicing memory. 	Short and mid term heat stress proteomics characterization in pinus radiata	climate change, orbitrap, pine	Due to the current climate change, many studies have described main drivers in abiotic stress. Recent findings suggest that alternative splicing (AS) has a critical role in controlling plant responses to high temperature. AS is a mechanism that allows organisms to create an assortment of RNA transcripts and proteins using a single gene. However, the most important roles of AS in stress could not be rigorously addressed because research has been focused on model species, covering only a narrow phylogenetic and lifecycle spectrum. Thus, AS degree of diversification among more dissimilar taxa in heat response is still largely unknown. To fill this gap, the present study employs a systems biology approach to examine how the AS landscape responds to and 'remembers' heat stress in conifers, a group which has received little attention even though their position can solve key evolutionary questions. Contrary to angiosperms, we found that potential intron retention may not be the most prevalent type of AS. Furthermore, our integrative analysis with metabolome and proteome data places splicing as the main source of variation during the response. Finally, we evaluated possible acquired long-term splicing memory in a diverse subset of events, and although this mechanism seems to be conserved in seed plants, AS dynamics are divergent. These discoveries reveal the particular way of remembering past temperature changes in long-lived plants and open the door to include species with unique features to determine the extent of conservation in gene expression regulation.
PXD025135	36152753	Relative Quantification of Proteins in Formalin-Fixed Paraffin-Embedded Breast Cancer Tissue Using Multiplexed Mass Spectrometry Assays. 	Biomarker Discovery in FFPE tissues by SRM	HER2 breast cancer, SRM, biomarker discovery, formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE), luminal A breast cancer, targeted mass spectrometry, triple-negative breast cancer	The identification of clinically relevant biomarkers represents an important challenge in oncology. This problem can be addressed with biomarker discovery and verification studies performed directly in tumor samples using formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissues. However, reliably measuring proteins in FFPE samples remains challenging. Here, we demonstrate the use of liquid chromatography coupled to multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (LC-MRM/MS) as an effective technique for such applications. An LC-MRM/MS method was developed to simultaneously quantify hundreds of peptides extracted from FFPE samples and was applied to the targeted measurement of 200 proteins in 48 triple-negative, 19 HER2-overexpressing, and 20 luminal A breast tumors. Quantitative information was obtained for 185 proteins, including known markers of breast cancer such as HER2, hormone receptors, Ki-67, or inflammation-related proteins. LC-MRM/MS results for these proteins matched immunohistochemistry or chromogenic in situ hybridization data. In addition, comparison of our results with data from the literature showed that several proteins representing potential biomarkers were identified as differentially expressed in triple-negative breast cancer samples. These results indicate that LC-MRM/MS assays can reliably measure large sets of proteins using the analysis of surrogate peptides extracted from FFPE samples. This approach allows to simultaneously quantify the expression of target proteins from various pathways in tumor samples. LC-MRM/MS is thus a powerful tool for the relative quantification of proteins in FFPE tissues and for biomarker discovery.
PXD028428	36152754	Quantitative Phosphoproteomics Analysis Uncovers PAK2- and CDK1-Mediated Malignant Signaling Pathways in Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis uncovers CDK1- and PAK2-mediated malignant signaling pathways in clear cell Renal Cell Carcinoma	Renal Cell Carcinoma, biomarkers, drug targets, phosphoproteomics, signaling pathways	Clear cell Renal Cell Carcinoma (ccRCC) is among the 10 most common cancers in both men and women and causes more than 140,000 deaths worldwide every year. In order to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms orchestrated by phosphorylation modifications, we performed a comprehensive quantitative phosphoproteomics characterization of ccRCC tumor and normal adjacent tissues. Here, we identified 16,253 phosphopeptides, of which more than 9000 were singly quantified. Our in-depth analysis revealed 600 phosphopeptides to be significantly differentially regulated between tumor and normal tissues. Moreover, our data revealed that significantly up-regulated phosphoproteins are associated with protein synthesis and cytoskeletal re-organization which suggests proliferative and migratory behavior of renal tumors. This is supported by a mesenchymal profile of ccRCC phosphorylation events. Our rigorous characterization of the renal phosphoproteome also suggests that both epidermal growth factor receptor and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor are important mediators of phospho signaling in RCC pathogenesis. Furthermore, we determined the kinases p21-activated kinase 2, cyclin-dependent kinase 1 and c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1 to be master kinases that are responsible for phosphorylation of many substrates associated with cell proliferation, inflammation and migration. Moreover, high expression of p21-activated kinase 2 is associated with worse survival outcome of ccRCC patients. These master kinases are targetable by inhibitory drugs such as fostamatinib, minocycline, tamoxifen and bosutinib which can serve as novel therapeutic agents for ccRCC treatment.
PXD034653	36154077	Quantitative Cell Proteomic Atlas: Pathway-Scale Targeted Mass Spectrometry for High-Resolution Functional Profiling of Cell Signaling. 	QuantitativeCancerProteomicAtlas1.2 observable peptides	human QCPA phosphorylation synthetic	In spite of extensive studies of cellular signaling, many fundamental processes such as pathway integration, cross-talk, and feedback remain poorly understood. To enable integrated and quantitative measurements of cellular biochemical activities, we have developed the Quantitative Cell Proteomics Atlas (QCPA). QCPA consists of panels of targeted mass spectrometry assays to determine the abundance and stoichiometry of regulatory post-translational modifications of sentinel proteins from most known physiologic and pathogenic signaling pathways in human cells. QCPA currently profiles 1 913 peptides from 469 effectors of cell surface signaling, apoptosis, stress response, gene expression, quiescence, and proliferation. For each protein, QCPA includes triplets of isotopically labeled peptides covering known post-translational regulatory sites to determine their stoichiometries and unmodified protein regions to measure total protein abundance. The QCPA framework incorporates analytes to control for technical variability of sample preparation and mass spectrometric analysis, including TrypQuant, a synthetic substrate for accurate quantification of proteolysis efficiency for proteins containing chemically modified residues. The ability to precisely and accurately quantify most known signaling pathways should enable improved chemoproteomic approaches for the comprehensive analysis of cell signaling and clinical proteomics of diagnostic specimens. QCPA is openly available at https://qcpa.mskcc.org.
PXD031022	36154753	Neurodegeneration and humoral response proteins in cerebrospinal fluid associate with pediatric-onset multiple sclerosis and not monophasic demyelinating syndromes in childhood. 	Neurodegeneration and humoral response proteins in cerebrospinal fluid associate with pediatric-onset multiple sclerosis -- Validation	cerebrospinal fluid, multiple sclerosis, pediatrics, proteins	BACKGROUND: Pediatric-onset multiple sclerosis (POMS) represents the earliest stage of disease pathogenesis. Investigating the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) proteome in POMS may provide novel insights into early MS processes. OBJECTIVE: To analyze CSF obtained from children at time of initial central nervous system (CNS) acquired demyelinating syndrome (ADS), to compare CSF proteome of those subsequently ascertained as having POMS versus monophasic acquired demyelinating syndrome (mADS). METHODS: Patients were selected from two prospective pediatric ADS studies. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) was performed in a Dutch discovery cohort (POMS n = 28; mADS n = 39). Parallel reaction monitoring-mass spectrometry (PRM-MS) was performed on selected proteins more abundant in POMS in a combined Dutch and Canadian validation cohort (POMS n = 48; mADS n = 106). RESULTS: Discovery identified 5580 peptides belonging to 576 proteins; 58 proteins were differentially abundant with <=2 peptides between POMS and mADS, of which 28 more abundant in POMS. Fourteen had increased abundance in POMS with <=8 unique peptides. Five selected proteins were all confirmed within validation. Adjusted for age, 2 out of 5 proteins remained more abundant in POMS, that is, Carboxypeptidase E (CPE) and Semaphorin-7A (SEMA7A). CONCLUSION: This exploratory study identified several CSF proteins associated with POMS and not mADS, potentially reflecting neurodegeneration, compensatory neuroprotection, and humoral response in POMS. The proteins associated with POMS highly correlated with age at CSF sampling.
PXD025929	36156150	A regulatory network comprising let-7 miRNA and SMUG1 is associated with good prognosis in ER+ breast tumours. 	A regulatory network comprising let-7 miRNA and SMUG1 is associated with good prognosis in breast cancer survival	DNA repair, RNA and ribonucleoprotein biogenesis, SMUG1, breast cancer, hsa-let-7b-5p, modified bases	Single-strand selective uracil-DNA glycosylase 1 (SMUG1) initiates base excision repair (BER) of uracil and oxidized pyrimidines. SMUG1 status has been associated with cancer risk and therapeutic response in breast carcinomas and other cancer types. However, SMUG1 is a multifunctional protein involved, not only, in BER but also in RNA quality control, and its function in cancer cells is unclear. Here we identify several novel SMUG1 interaction partners that functions in many biological processes relevant for cancer development and treatment response. Based on this, we hypothesized that the dominating function of SMUG1 in cancer might be ascribed to functions other than BER. We define a bad prognosis signature for SMUG1 by mapping out the SMUG1 interaction network and found that high expression of genes in the bad prognosis network correlated with lower survival probability in ER+ breast cancer. Interestingly, we identified hsa-let-7b-5p microRNA as an upstream regulator of the SMUG1 interactome. Expression of SMUG1 and hsa-let-7b-5p were negatively correlated in breast cancer and we found an inhibitory auto-regulatory loop between SMUG1 and hsa-let-7b-5p in the MCF7 breast cancer cells. We conclude that SMUG1 functions in a gene regulatory network that influence the survival and treatment response in several cancers.
PXD035020	36158190	Perilipin-2 promotes lipid droplet-plasma membrane interactions that facilitate apocrine lipid secretion in secretory epithelial cells of the mouse mammary gland. 	Perilipin 2 mediates milk fat globule secretion	ADPH, ADRP, LC MS/MS, Perilipin 2, apocrine secretion, lactation, lipid droplet, milk fat globule membrane	Secretory epithelial cells (sMEC) in mammary glands of lactating animals secrete lipids by a novel apocrine mechanism in which cytoplasmic lipid droplets (LD) contact and are enveloped by elements of the apical plasma membrane (APM) before being released into the lumen of the gland as membrane bound structures. The molecular properties of LD-APM contacts and the mechanisms regulating LD membrane envelopment and secretion are not fully understood. Perilipin-2 (Plin2) is a constitutive LD protein that has been proposed to tether LD to the APM through formation of a complex with the transmembrane protein, butyrophilin1a1 (BTN) and the redox enzyme, xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR). Using mice lacking Plin2 and physiological inhibition of apocrine lipid secretion, we demonstrate that LD-APM contact and envelopment are mechanistically distinct steps that they are differentially regulated by Plin2 and independent of LD secretion. We find that Plin2 is not required for formation of LD-APM contacts. However, it increases the percentage of LD that contact the APM and mediates enlargement of the LD-APM contact zone as LD undergo membrane envelopment. The effects of Plin2 LD-APM interactions are associated with increased abundances of BTN, XOR and Cidea, which are implicated as mediators of LD-APM contact formation, on membranes surrounding secreted LD, and with promotion of glycocalyx remodeling at LD-APM contact sites. We propose that Plin2 does not directly mediate contact between LD and the APM but acts by enhancing molecular interactions that stabilize LD-APM contacts and govern membrane envelopment of LD during apocrine lipid secretion. Plin2 does not appear to significantly affect the lipid content of milk in fully lactating animals, but it does increase lipid secretion at the onset of lactation in primaparous dams, which suggest a role in facilitating apocrine lipid secretion in sMEC during their initial transition to a secretory phenotype.
PXD031247	36160840	Remote ischemic preconditioning enhances aerobic performance by accelerating regional oxygenation and improving cardiac function during acute hypobaric hypoxia exposure. 	The plasma DIA proteomic analysis for humans aimming at exploring the mechanism of RIPC's protective effect under hypobaric hypoxia condition.	Hypobaric hypoxia, remote ischemic preconditioning	Remote ischemic preconditioning (RIPC) may improve exercise performance. However, the influence of RIPC on aerobic performance and underlying physiological mechanisms during hypobaric hypoxia (HH) exposure remains relatively uncertain. Here, we systematically evaluated the potential performance benefits and underlying mechanisms of RIPC during HH exposure. Seventy-nine healthy participants were randomly assigned to receive sham intervention or RIPC (4 x 5 min occlusion 180 mm Hg/reperfusion 0 mm Hg, bilaterally on the upper arms) for 8 consecutive days in phases 1 (24 participants) and phase 2 (55 participants). In the phases 1, we measured the change in maximal oxygen uptake capacity (VO2max) and muscle oxygenation (SmO2) on the leg during a graded exercise test. We also measured regional cerebral oxygenation (rSO2) on the forehead. These measures and physiological variables, such as cardiovascular hemodynamic parameters and heart rate variability index, were used to evaluate the intervention effect of RIPC on the changes in bodily functions caused by HH exposure. In the phase 2, plasma protein mass spectrometry was then performed after RIPC intervention, and the results were further evaluated using ELISA tests to assess possible mechanisms. The results suggested that RIPC intervention improved VO2max (11.29%) and accelerated both the maximum (18.13%) and minimum (53%) values of SmO2 and rSO2 (6.88%) compared to sham intervention in hypobaric hypoxia exposure. Cardiovascular hemodynamic parameters (SV, SVRI, PPV% and SpMet%) and the heart rate variability index (Mean RR, Mean HR, RMSSD, pNN50, Lfnu, Hfnu, SD1, SD2/SD1, ApEn, SampEn, DFA1and DFA2) were evaluated. Protein sequence analysis showed 42 unregulated and six downregulated proteins in the plasma of the RIPC group compared to the sham group after HH exposure. Three proteins, thymosin beta4 (Tbeta4), heat shock protein-70 (HSP70), and heat shock protein-90 (HSP90), were significantly altered in the plasma of the RIPC group before and after HH exposure. Our data demonstrated that in acute HH exposure, RIPC mitigates the decline in VO2max and regional oxygenation, as well as physiological variables, such as cardiovascular hemodynamic parameters and the heart rate variability index, by influencing plasma Tbeta4, HSP70, and HSP90. These data suggest that RIPC may be beneficial for acute HH exposure.
PXD031557	36161018	Non-target molecular network and putative genes of flavonoid biosynthesis in Erythrina velutina Willd., a Brazilian semiarid native woody plant. 	Non-target molecular network and putative genes of flavonoid biosynthesis in Erythrina velutina, a Brazilian semiarid native woody plant	Caatinga, Erythrina velutina, flavonoids, semiarid	Erythrina velutina is a Brazilian native tree of the Caatinga (a unique semiarid biome). It is widely used in traditional medicine showing anti-inflammatory and central nervous system modulating activities. The species is a rich source of specialized metabolites, mostly alkaloids and flavonoids. To date, genomic information, biosynthesis, and regulation of flavonoids remain unknown in this woody plant. As part of a larger ongoing research goal to better understand specialized metabolism in plants inhabiting the harsh conditions of the Caatinga, the present study focused on this important class of bioactive phenolics. Leaves and seeds of plants growing in their natural habitat had their metabolic and proteomic profiles analyzed and integrated with transcriptome data. As a result, 96 metabolites (including 43 flavonoids) were annotated. Transcripts of the flavonoid pathway totaled 27, of which EvCHI, EvCHR, EvCHS, EvCYP75A and EvCYP75B1 were identified as putative main targets for modulating the accumulation of these metabolites. The highest correspondence of mRNA vs. protein was observed in the differentially expressed transcripts. In addition, 394 candidate transcripts encoding for transcription factors distributed among the bHLH, ERF, and MYB families were annotated. Based on interaction network analyses, several putative genes of the flavonoid pathway and transcription factors were related, particularly TFs of the MYB family. Expression patterns of transcripts involved in flavonoid biosynthesis and those involved in responses to biotic and abiotic stresses were discussed in detail. Overall, these findings provide a base for the understanding of molecular and metabolic responses in this medicinally important species. Moreover, the identification of key regulatory targets for future studies aiming at bioactive metabolite production will be facilitated.
PXD029079	36162674	Circuit-wide proteomics profiling reveals brain region-specific protein signatures in the male WKY rats with endogenous depression. 	Circuit-wide Proteomics Profiling Reveals Brain Region-specific Protein Signatures in the WKY Rats with Endogenous Depression	Depression, Hippocampus, Medial prefrontal cortex, Nucleus accumbens, Wistar Kyoto rats	BACKGROUND: Although the Wistar Kyoto (WKY) rat has been consistently recognized as an animal model with endogenous depression, the exact molecular mechanisms underlying its genetic susceptibility to depression remain undetermined. METHODS: Compared with the Wistar rats, the depression-like behaviors of the male WKY ones were evaluated by both the sucrose preference test and forced swimming test. Golgi staining analysis was conducted to access the dendritic morphology. TMT-labelled quantitative proteomics analyses were respectively performed in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), nucleus accumbens (NAc), and hippocampus (Hip), followed by KEGG enrichment-based clustering analysis, Venn diagram analysis, and Pearson correlation analysis. RESULTS: The WKY strain showed significant differences in both the depression-like behaviors and synaptic plasticity. Moreover, the WKY model displayed markedly distinct differentially-expressed protein (DEP) profiles, with minor differences between the WKY subgroups. A cerebral regional commonality and specificity were evident in the signaling pathways enriched in the WKY model, and a total of 15 brain region-specific DEPs were identified to closely correlate with the depression-like phenotypes (in the mPFC: Lrrc8d, Dcun1d2, and Mtnd5; in the NAc: Ccdc154, Sec14l2, Kif2a, LOC680322, Me1, Mknk1, and Ret7; in the Hip: Sec14l2, Serpinf2, LOC103694855, Fam13c, and Loxl1). Data were available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD029079. LIMITATIONS: Female WKY rats are not included, and the roles of these candidate DEPs in depression remain further elucidation. CONCLUSION: The present study further evidences the brain region-specific protein signatures in the male WKY model with endogenous depression, providing novel insights into the pathogenesis of depression in males.
PXD026925	36162702	LCK inhibition downregulates YAP activity and is therapeutic in patient-derived models of cholangiocarcinoma. 	Targeting LCK utilizing a selective inhibitor as a therapeutic approach in Cholangiocarcinoma	Hippo pathway, SILAC, phosphotyrosine	BACKGROUND & AIMS: There is an unmet need to develop novel, effective medical therapies for cholangiocarcinoma (CCA). The Hippo pathway effector, Yes-associated protein (YAP), is oncogenic in CCA, but has historically been difficult to target therapeutically. Recently, we described a novel role for the LCK proto-oncogene, Src family tyrosine kinase (LCK) in activating YAP through tyrosine phosphorylation. This led to the hypothesis that LCK is a viable therapeutic target in CCA via regulation of YAP activity. METHODS: A novel tyrosine kinase inhibitor with relative selectivity for LCK, NTRC 0652-0, was pharmacodynamically profiled in vitro and in CCA cells. A panel of eight CCA patient-derived organoids were characterized and tested for sensitivity to NTRC 0652-0. Two patient-derived xenograft models bearing fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2)-rearrangements were utilized for in vivo assessment of pharmacokinetics, toxicity, and efficacy. RESULTS: NTRC 0652-0 demonstrated selectivity for LCK inhibition in vitro and in CCA cells. LCK inhibition with NTRC 0652-0 led to decreased tyrosine phosphorylation, nuclear localization, and co-transcriptional activity of YAP, and resulted in apoptotic cell death in CCA cell lines. A subset of tested patient-derived organoids demonstrated sensitivity to NTRC 0652-0. CCAs with FGFR2 fusions were identified as a potentially susceptible and clinically relevant genetic subset. In patient-derived xenograft models of FGFR2 fusion-positive CCA, daily oral treatment with NTRC 0652-0 resulted in stable plasma and tumor drug levels, acceptable toxicity, decreased YAP tyrosine phosphorylation, and significantly decreased tumor growth. CONCLUSIONS: A novel LCK inhibitor, NTRC 0652-0, inhibited YAP signaling and demonstrated preclinical efficacy in CCA cell lines, and patient-derived organoid and xenograft models. IMPACT AND IMPLICATIONS: Although aberrant YAP activation is frequently seen in CCA, YAP targeted therapies are not yet clinically available. Herein we show that a novel LCK-selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor (NTRC 0652-0) effectively inhibits YAP tyrosine phosphorylation and cotranscriptional activity and is well tolerated and cytotoxic in multiple preclinical models. The data suggest this approach may be effective in CCA with YAP dependence or FGFR2 fusions, and these findings warrant further investigation in phase I clinical trials.
PXD033718	36163134	USP14 promotes tryptophan metabolism and immune suppression by stabilizing IDO1 in colorectal cancer. 	USP14 Promotes Tryptophan Metabolism and Immune Suppression by Stabilizing IDO1 in Colorectal Cancer	IDO1, colon cancer	Indoleamine 2,3 dioxygenase 1 (IDO1) is an attractive target for cancer immunotherapy. However, IDO1 inhibitors have shown disappointing therapeutic efficacy in clinical trials, mainly because of the activation of the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR). Here, we show a post-transcriptional regulatory mechanism of IDO1 regulated by a proteasome-associated deubiquitinating enzyme, USP14, in colorectal cancer (CRC). Overexpression of USP14 promotes tryptophan metabolism and T-cell dysfunction by stabilizing the IDO1 protein. Knockdown of USP14 or pharmacological targeting of USP14 decreases IDO1 expression, reverses suppression of cytotoxic T cells, and increases responsiveness to anti-PD-1 in a MC38 syngeneic mouse model. Importantly, suppression of USP14 has no effects on AhR activation induced by the IDO1 inhibitor. These findings highlight a relevant role of USP14 in post-translational regulation of IDO1 and in the suppression of antitumor immunity, suggesting that inhibition of USP14 may represent a promising strategy for CRC immunotherapy.
PXD027607	36163342	Elevated SFXN2 limits mitochondrial autophagy and increases iron-mediated energy production to promote multiple myeloma cell proliferation. 	SFXN2 adjusts cell proliferation in multiple myeloma	SFXN2, cell proliferation, multiple myeloma	Human sideroflexin 2 (SFXN2) belongs to the SFXN protein family, which is a mitochondrial outer membrane protein involved in mitochondrial iron metabolism. Mitochondria are indispensable for cellular energy production and iron metabolism. However, it remains elusive how SFXN2 modulates mitochondrial homeostasis and cellular iron metabolism in multiple myeloma (MM). In this study, we first found that SFXN2 was significantly elevated and correlated to poor outcomes in MM patients from clinical datasets. SFXN2 overexpression promoted MM cell proliferation and suppressed starvation-induced autophagy/mitophagy, while SFXN2 knockdown aggravated mitochondria damage and autophagic processes in ARP1 and H929 MM cell lines. Furthermore, inhibition of SFXN2 exerted effectively anti-myeloma activity in vivo by using myeloma xenograft model. Mechanism studies indicated that heme oxygenase 1 (HO1) with anti-oxidant function contributed to the process of autophagy suppression and cellular proliferation mediated by SFXN2. Our study revealed the critical role of SFXN2 in regulating mitochondrial bioenergetics, mitophagy, cellular iron metabolism, and redox homeostasis in interconnected and intricate way. Collectively, these findings not only provide insights into the metabolic reprogramming of tumor cells, but also highlight the therapeutic potential of SFXN2 in combination with iron metabolism as target for prognosis and treatment in MM patients.
PXD034895	36163468	The augmin complex architecture reveals structural insights into microtubule branching. 	The augmin complex architecture reveals structural insights into microtubule branching	augmin, branching, cell cycle, microtubule, nucleation	In mitosis, the augmin complex binds to spindle microtubules to recruit the gamma-tubulin ring complex (gamma-TuRC), the principal microtubule nucleator, for the formation of branched microtubules. Our understanding of augmin-mediated microtubule branching is hampered by the lack of structural information on the augmin complex. Here, we elucidate the molecular architecture and conformational plasticity of the augmin complex using an integrative structural biology approach. The elongated structure of the augmin complex is characterised by extensive coiled-coil segments and comprises two structural elements with distinct but complementary functions in gamma-TuRC and microtubule binding, linked by a flexible hinge. The augmin complex is recruited to microtubules via a composite microtubule binding site comprising a positively charged unordered extension and two calponin homology domains. Our study provides the structural basis for augmin function in branched microtubule formation, decisively fostering our understanding of spindle formation in mitosis.
PXD034865	36164730	Histidine supplementation can escalate or rescue HARS deficiency in a Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease model. 	Histidine supplementation can escalate or rescue HARS deficiency in a Charcot Marie Tooth Disease model	genetic disease, histidyl-tRNA synthetase (HARS), protein synthesis, transfer RNA	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are essential enzymes responsible for charging amino acids onto cognate tRNAs during protein synthesis. In histidyl-tRNA synthetase (HARS), autosomal dominant mutations V133F, V155G, Y330C and S356N in the HARS catalytic domain cause Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2 W (CMT2W), while tRNA-binding domain mutation Y454S causes recessive Usher syndrome type IIIB. In a yeast model, all human HARS variants complemented a genomic deletion of the yeast ortholog HTS1 at high expression levels. CMT2W associated mutations, but not Y454S, resulted in reduced growth. We show mistranslation of histidine to glutamine and threonine in V155G and S356N but not Y330C mutants in yeast. Mistranslating V155G and S356N mutants lead to accumulation of insoluble proteins, which was rescued by histidine. Mutants V133F and Y330C showed the most significant growth defect and decreased HARS abundance in cells. Here, histidine supplementation led to insoluble protein aggregation and further reduced viability, indicating histidine toxicity associated with these mutants. V133F proteins displayed reduced thermal stability in vitro, which was rescued by tRNA. Our data will inform future treatment options for HARS patients, where histidine supplementation may either have a toxic or compensating effect depending on the nature of the causative HARS variant.
PXD030195	36165217	Deep multilayer brain omics identifies the potential involvement of menopause molecular networks in Gliomas' disease progression. 	Deep Multilayer Brain Omics Identifies Molecular Networks in Glioma's Disease Progression	glioma, menopause	The risk of high-grade gliomas is lower in young females, however, its incidence enhances after menopause, suggesting potential protective roles of female sex hormones. Hormone oscillations after menopause have received attention as a possible risk factor. Little is known about risk factors for adult gliomas. We examined the association of the aging brain after menopause, determining the risk of gliomas with proteomics and the MALDI-MSI experiment. Menopause caused low neurotransmitter levels such as GABA and ACH, high inflammatory factor levels like il-1beta, and increased lipid metabolism-related levels like triglycerides in the brain. Upregulated and downregulated proteins after menopause were correlated with differentially expressed glioma genes, such as ACTA2, CAMK2D, FNBPIL, ARL1, HEBP1, CAST, CLIC1, LPCAT4, MAST3, and DOCK9. Furthermore, differential gene expression analysis of monocytes showed that the downregulated gene LPCAT4 could be used as a marker to prevent menopausal gliomas in women. Our findings regarding the association of menopause with the risk of gliomas are consistent with several extensive cohort studies. In view of the available evidence, postmenopausal status is likely to represent a significant risk factor for gliomas.
PXD029019	36167862	Pharmacological chaperone-rescued cystic fibrosis CFTR-F508del mutant overcomes PRAF2-gated access to endoplasmic reticulum exit sites. 	LC-MS/MS interactomics analysis of Praf2 with timsTOF Pro	Interactomics, Praf2, TurboID, timsTOF Pro	The endoplasmic reticulum exit of some polytopic plasma membrane proteins (PMPs) is controlled by arginin-based retention motifs. PRAF2, a gatekeeper which recognizes these motifs, was shown to retain the GABAB-receptor GB1 subunit in the ER. We report that PRAF2 can interact on a stoichiometric basis with both wild type and mutant F508del Cystic Fibrosis (CF) Transmembrane Conductance Regulator (CFTR), preventing the access of newly synthesized cargo to ER exit sites. Because of its lower abundance, compared to wild-type CFTR, CFTR-F508del recruitment into COPII vesicles is suppressed by the ER-resident PRAF2. We also demonstrate that some pharmacological chaperones that efficiently rescue CFTR-F508del loss of function in CF patients target CFTR-F508del retention by PRAF2 operating with various mechanisms. Our findings open new therapeutic perspectives for diseases caused by the impaired cell surface trafficking of mutant PMPs, which contain RXR-based retention motifs that might be recognized by PRAF2.
PXD028456	36167981	Cryo-EM structures of human m(6)A writer complexes. 	Structural insights into regulatory mechanism of RNA modification by human m6A-METTL associated complex	METTL3, RNA m6A modification, VIRMA, WTAP, ZC3H13, m6A writer, m6A-METTL associated complex (MACOM), m6A-METTL complex (MAC)	N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) is the most abundant ribonucleotide modification among eukaryotic messenger RNAs. The m(6)A "writer" consists of the catalytic subunit m(6)A-METTL complex (MAC) and the regulatory subunit m(6)A-METTL-associated complex (MACOM), the latter being essential for enzymatic activity. Here, we report the cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) structures of MACOM at a 3.0-Aa resolution, uncovering that WTAP and VIRMA form the core structure of MACOM and that ZC3H13 stretches the conformation by binding VIRMA. Furthermore, the 4.4-Aa resolution cryo-EM map of the MACOM-MAC complex, combined with crosslinking mass spectrometry and GST pull-down analysis, elucidates a plausible model of the m(6)A writer complex, in which MACOM binds to MAC mainly through WTAP and METTL3 interactions. In combination with in vitro RNA substrate binding and m(6)A methyltransferase activity assays, our results illustrate the molecular basis of how MACOM assembles and interacts with MAC to form an active m(6)A writer complex.
PXD032227	36168616	(18)F-FDG PET as an imaging biomarker for the response to FGFR-targeted therapy of cancer cells via FGFR-initiated mTOR/HK2 axis. 	TMT-labeled mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis in NCI-H1581 lung cancer cells upon AZD4547 treatment	AZD4547, NCI-H1581, TMT-labeled mass spectrometry	Rationale: The overall clinical response to FGFR inhibitor (FGFRi) is far from satisfactory in cancer patients stratified by FGFR aberration, the current biomarker in clinical practice. A novel biomarker to evaluate the therapeutic response to FGFRi in a non-invasive and dynamic manner is thus greatly desired. Methods: Six FGFR-aberrant cancer cell lines were used, including four FGFRi-sensitive ones (NCI-H1581, NCI-H716, RT112 and Hep3B) and two FGFRi-resistant ones (primary for NCI-H2444 and acquired for NCI-H1581/AR). Cell viability and tumor xenograft growth analyses were performed to evaluate FGFRi sensitivities, accompanied by corresponding (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)F-FDG) uptake assay. mTOR/PLCgamma/MEK-ERK signaling blockade by specific inhibitors or siRNAs was applied to determine the regulation mechanism. Results: FGFR inhibition decreased the in vitro accumulation of (18)F-FDG only in four FGFRi-sensitive cell lines, but in neither of FGFRi-resistant ones. We then demonstrated that FGFRi-induced transcriptional downregulation of hexokinase 2 (HK2), a key factor of glucose metabolism and FDG trapping, via mTOR pathway leading to this decrease. Moreover, (18)F-FDG PET imaging successfully differentiated the FGFRi-sensitive tumor xenografts from primary or acquired resistant ones by the tumor (18)F-FDG accumulation change upon FGFRi treatment. Of note, both (18)F-FDG tumor accumulation and HK2 expression could respond the administration/withdrawal of FGFRi in NCI-H1581 xenografts correspondingly. Conclusion: The novel association between the molecular mechanism (FGFR/mTOR/HK2 axis) and radiological phenotype ((18)F-FDG PET uptake) of FGFR-targeted therapy was demonstrated in multiple preclinical models. The adoption of (18)F-FDG PET biomarker-based imaging strategy to assess response/resistance to FGFR inhibition may benefit treatment selection for cancer patients.
PXD036454	36169304	The SPARC complex defines RNAPII promoters in Trypanosoma brucei. 	The SPARC complex defines RNAPII promoters in Trypanosoma brucei	Chromodomain protein CRD1, SET27 promoter-associated regulatory complex (SPARC), Trypanosoma brucei, histone methyltransferase SET27	Kinetoplastids are a highly divergent lineage of eukaryotes with unusual mechanisms for regulating gene expression. We previously surveyed 65 putative chromatin factors in the kinetoplastid Trypanosoma brucei. Our analyses revealed that the predicted histone methyltransferase SET27 and the Chromodomain protein CRD1 are tightly concentrated at RNAPII transcription start regions (TSRs). Here, we report that SET27 and CRD1, together with four previously uncharacterized constituents, form the SET27 promoter-associated regulatory complex (SPARC), which is specifically enriched at TSRs. SET27 loss leads to aberrant RNAPII recruitment to promoter sites, accumulation of polyadenylated transcripts upstream of normal transcription start sites, and conversion of some normally unidirectional promoters to bidirectional promoters. Transcriptome analysis in the absence of SET27 revealed upregulated mRNA expression in the vicinity of SPARC peaks within the main body of chromosomes in addition to derepression of genes encoding variant surface glycoproteins (VSGs) located in subtelomeric regions. These analyses uncover a novel chromatin-associated complex required to establish accurate promoter position and directionality.
PXD034457	36170367	The long noncoding RNA mimi scaffolds neuronal granules to maintain nervous system maturity. 	Proteomic Analysis of RAP (RNA Antisense Purification) isolated RNPs (RiboNucleotide Particles) harboring the novel lncRNA mimi	Drosophila, ELAV, FNE, RAP RNA protein complex isolation, RBP9, UV crosslinking, fly brain, lncRNA mimi, neurons, relative LFQ (label free quantification) quantitative proteomics	RNA binding proteins and messenger RNAs (mRNAs) assemble into ribonucleoprotein granules that regulate mRNA trafficking, local translation, and turnover. The dysregulation of RNA-protein condensation disturbs synaptic plasticity and neuron survival and has been widely associated with human neurological disease. Neuronal granules are thought to condense around particular proteins that dictate the identity and composition of each granule type. Here, we show in Drosophila that a previously uncharacterized long noncoding RNA, mimi, is required to scaffold large neuronal granules in the adult nervous system. Neuronal ELAV-like proteins directly bind mimi and mediate granule assembly, while Staufen maintains condensate integrity. mimi granules contain mRNAs and proteins involved in synaptic processes; granule loss in mimi mutant flies impairs nervous system maturity and neuropeptide-mediated signaling and causes phenotypes of neurodegeneration. Our work reports an architectural RNA for a neuronal granule and provides a handle to interrogate functions of a condensate independently of those of its constituent proteins.
PXD030581	36171271	HMG20B stabilizes association of LSD1 with GFI1 on chromatin to confer transcription repression and leukemia cell differentiation block. 	HMG20B stabilizes interaction of LSD1 with GFI1 on chromatin to confer 1 transcription repression and leukemia cell differentiation block	Human LTQ Orbitrap Velos	Pharmacologic inhibition of LSD1 induces molecular and morphologic differentiation of blast cells in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients harboring MLL gene translocations. In addition to its demethylase activity, LSD1 has a critical scaffolding function at genomic sites occupied by the SNAG domain transcription repressor GFI1. Importantly, inhibitors block both enzymatic and scaffolding activities, in the latter case by disrupting the protein:protein interaction of GFI1 with LSD1. To explore the wider consequences of LSD1 inhibition on the LSD1 protein complex we applied mass spectrometry technologies. We discovered that the interaction of the HMG-box protein HMG20B with LSD1 was also disrupted by LSD1 inhibition. Downstream investigations revealed that HMG20B is co-located on chromatin with GFI1 and LSD1 genome-wide; the strongest HMG20B binding co-locates with the strongest GFI1 and LSD1 binding. Functional assays demonstrated that HMG20B depletion induces leukemia cell differentiation and further revealed that HMG20B is required for the transcription repressor activity of GFI1 through stabilizing LSD1 on chromatin at GFI1 binding sites. Interaction of HMG20B with LSD1 is through its coiled-coil domain. Thus, HMG20B is a critical component of the GFI1:LSD1 transcription repressor complex which contributes to leukemia cell differentiation block.
PXD036162	36171294	An LKB1-mitochondria axis controls TH17 effector function. 	LKB1/STK11-sensing of mitochondrial function controls Th17 cell responses	DIA, OPA1 knock out Th17 cells, Spectronaut, Th17 T cells, serine/threonine kinase liver associated kinase B1 (LKB1/STK11).	CD4(+) T cell differentiation requires metabolic reprogramming to fulfil the bioenergetic demands of proliferation and effector function, and enforce specific transcriptional programmes(1-3). Mitochondrial membrane dynamics sustains mitochondrial processes(4), including respiration and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle metabolism(5), but whether mitochondrial membrane remodelling orchestrates CD4(+) T cell differentiation remains unclear. Here we show that unlike other CD4(+) T cell subsets, T helper 17 (TH17) cells have fused mitochondria with tight cristae. T cell-specific deletion of optic atrophy 1 (OPA1), which regulates inner mitochondrial membrane fusion and cristae morphology(6), revealed that TH17 cells require OPA1 for its control of the TCA cycle, rather than respiration. OPA1 deletion amplifies glutamine oxidation, leading to impaired NADH/NAD(+) balance and accumulation of TCA cycle metabolites and 2-hydroxyglutarate-a metabolite that influences the epigenetic landscape(5,7). Our multi-omics approach revealed that the serine/threonine kinase liver-associated kinase B1 (LKB1) couples mitochondrial function to cytokine expression in TH17 cells by regulating TCA cycle metabolism and transcriptional remodelling. Mitochondrial membrane disruption activates LKB1, which restrains IL-17 expression. LKB1 deletion restores IL-17 expression in TH17 cells with disrupted mitochondrial membranes, rectifying aberrant TCA cycle glutamine flux, balancing NADH/NAD(+) and preventing 2-hydroxyglutarate production from the promiscuous activity of the serine biosynthesis enzyme phosphoglycerate dehydrogenase (PHGDH). These findings identify OPA1 as a major determinant of TH17 cell function, and uncover LKB1 as a sensor linking mitochondrial cues to effector programmes in TH17 cells.
PXD018002	36171374	A mechanism for oxidative damage repair at gene regulatory elements. 	Analysis of protein interaction partners of TDIF	DNA repair, TDIF, hydrogen peroxide (H2O2), immunoprecipitation	Oxidative genome damage is an unavoidable consequence of cellular metabolism. It arises at gene regulatory elements by epigenetic demethylation during transcriptional activation(1,2). Here we show that promoters are protected from oxidative damage via a process mediated by the nuclear mitotic apparatus protein NuMA (also known as NUMA1). NuMA exhibits genomic occupancy approximately 100 bp around transcription start sites. It binds the initiating form of RNA polymerase II, pause-release factors and single-strand break repair (SSBR) components such as TDP1. The binding is increased on chromatin following oxidative damage, and TDP1 enrichment at damaged chromatin is facilitated by NuMA. Depletion of NuMA increases oxidative damage at promoters. NuMA promotes transcription by limiting the polyADP-ribosylation of RNA polymerase II, increasing its availability and release from pausing at promoters. Metabolic labelling of nascent RNA identifies genes that depend on NuMA for transcription including immediate-early response genes. Complementation of NuMA-deficient cells with a mutant that mediates binding to SSBR, or a mitotic separation-of-function mutant, restores SSBR defects. These findings underscore the importance of oxidative DNA damage repair at gene regulatory elements and describe a process that fulfils this function.
PXD035970	36172182	Proteomics unite traditional toxicological assessment methods to evaluate the toxicity of iron oxide nanoparticles. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of  iron oxide nanoparticles toxicity in rats	iron oxide nanoparticles, rat	Iron oxide nanoparticles (IONPs) are the first generation of nanomaterials approved by the Food and Drug Administration for use as imaging agents and for the treatment of iron deficiency in chronic kidney disease. However, several IONPs-based imaging agents have been withdrawn because of toxic effects and the poor understanding of the underlying mechanisms. This study aimed to evaluate IONPs toxicity and to elucidate the underlying mechanism after intravenous administration in rats. Seven-week-old rats were intravenously administered IONPs at doses of 0, 10, 30, and 90 mg/kg body weight for 14 consecutive days. Toxicity and molecular perturbations were evaluated using traditional toxicological assessment methods and proteomics approaches, respectively. The administration of 90 mg/kg IONPs induced mild toxic effects, including abnormal clinical signs, lower body weight gain, changes in serum biochemical and hematological parameters, and increased organ coefficients in the spleen, liver, heart, and kidneys. Toxicokinetics, tissue distribution, histopathological, and transmission electron microscopy analyses revealed that the spleen was the primary organ for IONPs elimination from the systemic circulation and that the macrophage lysosomes were the main organelles of IONPs accumulation after intravenous administration. We identified 197 upregulated and 75 downregulated proteins in the spleen following IONPs administration by proteomics. Mechanically, the AKT/mTOR/TFEB signaling pathway facilitated autophagy and lysosomal activation in splenic macrophages. This is the first study to elucidate the mechanism of IONPs toxicity by combining proteomics with traditional methods for toxicity assessment.
PXD033696	36172281	MeCP2 heterochromatin organization is modulated by arginine methylation and serine phosphorylation. 	MeCP2 heterochromatin organization is modulated by arginine methylation and serine phosphorylation	brain	Rett syndrome is a human intellectual disability disorder that is associated with mutations in the X-linked MECP2 gene. The epigenetic reader MeCP2 binds to methylated cytosines on the DNA and regulates chromatin organization. We have shown previously that MECP2 Rett syndrome missense mutations are impaired in chromatin binding and heterochromatin reorganization. Here, we performed a proteomics analysis of post-translational modifications of MeCP2 isolated from adult mouse brain. We show that MeCP2 carries various post-translational modifications, among them phosphorylation on S80 and S421, which lead to minor changes in either heterochromatin binding kinetics or clustering. We found that MeCP2 is (di)methylated on several arginines and that this modification alters heterochromatin organization. Interestingly, we identified the Rett syndrome mutation site R106 as a dimethylation site. In addition, co-expression of protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMT)1 and PRMT6 lead to a decrease of heterochromatin clustering. Altogether, we identified and validated novel modifications of MeCP2 in the brain and show that these can modulate its ability to bind as well as reorganize heterochromatin, which may play a role in the pathology of Rett syndrome.
PXD034932	36173614	compareMS2 2.0: An Improved Software for Comparing Tandem Mass Spectrometry Datasets. 	Data for demonstrating new features in compareMS2 2.0	molecular phylogenetics, serum	It has long been known that biological species can be identified from mass spectrometry data alone. Ten years ago, we described a method and software tool, compareMS2, for calculating a distance between sets of tandem mass spectra, as routinely collected in proteomics. This method has seen use in species identification and mixture characterization in food and feed products, as well as other applications. Here, we present the first major update of this software, including a new metric, a graphical user interface and additional functionality. The data have been deposited to ProteomeXchange with dataset identifier PXD034932.
PXD028436	36174953	TMT-based quantitative proteomic and physiological analyses on lotus plumule of artificially aged seed in long-living sacred lotus Nelumbo nucifera. 	proteomic characterization of artificially aged seed in Nelumbo Nucifera	Nelumbo Nucifera, seed embryo axis	Seed longevity is important for the maintenance of seed nutritional quality, vigor, and germination potential during storage. Sacred lotus is known as one of the longest living seeds in the world and their ability to maintain longevity has been widely investigated. In this study, a suitable controlled deterioration treatment (CDT) method was first established to evaluate the vigor loss of lotus plumule (LP), and then the Tandem Mass Tags (TMT)-based proteomic analysis was performed on LP from the CDT-treated seed to quantitatively and qualitatively analyze the protein profile dynamic. In total, 4002 proteins were successfully quantified, of them, 558 differently accumulated proteins (DAPs) were identified. Protein processing and RNA-related proteins were found more easily to be affected by CDT, which may directly result in seed vigor loss. Meanwhile, CDT resulted in remarkable up-regulation of numerous proteins related to antioxidation, photosynthesis, RNA and DNA stability, starch and sucrose mobilization, and cell membrane and wall stability, which potentially played key roles in maintaining the lotus seed vigor under CDT. Histological and physiological analyses were also performed to verify some proteome results. This study provided both fundamental data and new insights to further uncover the secret of lotus seed longevity. SIGNIFICANCE: Seed aging affects the seed quality and can result in direct economic losses. The exceptional longevity of sacred lotus seed has attracted extensive attention. In this study, an optimized CDT method was used to mimic the natural aging process of sacred lotus seed, and based on TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis on the LP profile of CDT-treated seeds, a series of differentially accumulation of specific proteins (DEPs) were revealed related to CDT resistance. Correspondingly, the physiological state and histological structure of the LP along with the CDT were detected to verify the proteome data. This study provided comprehensive information for the molecular basis of lotus seed aging analysis and facilitate to screen seed longevity related proteins for other plant species.
PXD034996	36175004	TGFbeta1 and POSTN as biomarkers of postinfectious bronchiolitis obliterans and asthma in children. 	Plasma Biomarkers of Postinfectious Bronchiolitis Obliterans and Asthma in Children	Asthma, Plasma, Postinfectious Bronchiolitis Obliterans, SWATH-MS	RATIONALE: Asthma and postinfectious bronchiolitis obliterans (PIBO) are common chronic lung diseases in company with wheezing in children. However, it is not clear what is common and unique mechanisms between the two diseases. Thus, we used proteomic analysis to compare differences in biomarkers between children with asthma and PIBO. METHODS: Overall, 30 healthy children without respiratory underlying diseases, 18 children with asthma and 15 with PIBO were included for this study. Sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH)-mass spectrometry (MS) was used to measure proteins in plasma samples. To identify specific pathways of each groups, we used the ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) software. RESULTS: We identified and quantified 354 proteins across all 63 samples in the SWATH-MS analysis. Forty eight proteins were significantly different among 3 groups. The upstream analysis of IPA suggested that inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa B kinase subunit beta (IKBKB) was the upstream inhibitor of 4 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in asthma, while the upstream activator in PIBO subjects. Among 4 DEPs, TGF-beta1 in PIBO and periostin in asthma were negatively correlated with forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV1), FEV1/forced vital capacity, maximal med-expiratory flow, and PC20, respectively. CONCLUSION: These findings demonstrate that transforming growth factor beta1 and periostin were unique biomarkers of PIBO and asthma in children, respectively. The mechanism regulated by IKBKB may be therapeutically relevant for PIBO and asthma.
PXD034510	36175400	SARS-CoV-2 infects adipose tissue in a fat depot- and viral lineage-dependent manner. 	SARS-CoV-2 infects adipose tissue in a fat depot- and viral lineage-dependent manner	COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, adipose tissue, fat depots, inflammation, lipolysis, obesity, variants of concern, virus attenuation, visceral fat	Visceral adiposity is a risk factor for severe COVID-19, and a link between adipose tissue infection and disease progression has been proposed. Here we demonstrate that SARS-CoV-2 infects human adipose tissue and undergoes productive infection in fat cells. However, susceptibility to infection and the cellular response depends on the anatomical origin of the cells and the viral lineage. Visceral fat cells express more ACE2 and are more susceptible to SARS-CoV-2 infection than their subcutaneous counterparts. SARS-CoV-2 infection leads to inhibition of lipolysis in subcutaneous fat cells, while in visceral fat cells, it results in higher expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines. Viral load and cellular response are attenuated when visceral fat cells are infected with the SARS-CoV-2 gamma variant. A similar degree of cell death occurs 4-days after SARS-CoV-2 infection, regardless of the cell origin or viral lineage. Hence, SARS-CoV-2 infects human fat cells, replicating and altering cell function and viability in a depot- and viral lineage-dependent fashion.
PXD024255	36175412	Proteomic characterization of gastric cancer response to chemotherapy and targeted therapy reveals new therapeutic strategies. 	Proteomics of the Gastric cancer Response to Chemotherapy	Chemotherapy, Gastric cancer	Chemotherapy and targeted therapy are the major treatments for gastric cancer (GC), but drug resistance limits its effectiveness. Here, we profile the proteome of 206 tumor tissues from patients with GC undergoing either chemotherapy or anti-HER2-based therapy. Proteome-based classification reveals four subtypes (G-I-G-IV) related to different clinical and molecular features. MSI-sig high GC patients benefit from docetaxel combination treatment, accompanied by anticancer immune response. Further study reveals patients with high T cell receptor signaling respond to anti-HER2-based therapy; while activation of extracellular matrix/PI3K-AKT pathway impair anti-tumor effect of trastuzumab. We observe CTSE functions as a cell intrinsic enhancer of chemosensitivity of docetaxel, whereas TKTL1 functions as an attenuator. Finally, we develop prognostic models with high accuracy to predict therapeutic response, further validated in an independent validation cohort. This study provides a rich resource for investigating the mechanisms and indicators of chemotherapy and targeted therapy in GC.
PXD029110	36176682	The key clock component ZEITLUPE (ZTL) negatively regulates ABA signaling by degradation of CHLH in Arabidopsis. 	The key clock component ZEITLUPE negatively regulates ABA signalling by degradation of the chloroplast outer membrane-localized CHLH/ABAR in Arabidopsis	ABA, CHLH/ABAR, ZTL, circadian clock	Ubiquitination-mediated protein degradation plays important roles in ABA signal transduction and delivering responses to chloroplast stress signals in plants, but additional E3 ligases of protein ubiquitination remain to be identified to understand the complex signaling network. Here we reported that ZEITLUPE (ZTL), an F-box protein, negatively regulates abscisic acid (ABA) signaling during ABA-inhibited early seedling growth and ABA-induced stomatal closure in Arabidopsis thaliana. Using molecular biology and biochemistry approaches, we demonstrated that ZTL interacts with and ubiquitinates its substrate, CHLH/ABAR (Mg-chelatase H subunit/putative ABA receptor), to modulate CHLH stability via the 26S proteasome pathway. CHLH acts genetically downstream of ZTL in ABA and drought stress signaling. Interestingly, ABA conversely induces ZTL phosphorylation, and high levels of ABA also induce CHLH proteasomal degradation, implying that phosphorylated ZTL protein may enhance the affinity to CHLH, leading to the increased degradation of CHLH after ABA treatment. Taken together, our results revealed a possible mechanism of reciprocal regulation between ABA signaling and the circadian clock, which is thought to be essential for plant fitness and survival.
PXD033188	36176734	YAP/Smad3 promotes pathological extracellular matrix microenviroment-induced bladder smooth muscle proliferation in bladder fibrosis progression. 	Extracellular Matrix Microenviroment-induced Bladder Smooth Muscle Proliferation in Bladder Fibrosis Progression	Bladder fibrosis, Extracellular matrix stiffness, Proliferation, Smad3, YAP	Fibrosis is a chronic inflammation process with excess extracellular matrix (ECM) deposition that cannot be reversed. Patients suffer from bladder dysfunction caused by bladder fibrosis. Moreover, the interactive mechanisms between ECM and bladder fibrosis are still obscure. Hence, we assessed the pivotal effect of Yes-associated protein (YAP) on the proliferation of bladder smooth muscle in fibrosis process. We identified that stiff ECM increased the expression and translocation of YAP in the nucleus of human bladder smooth muscle cell (hBdSMC). Sequencings and proteomics revealed that YAP bound to Smad3 and promoted the proliferation of hBdSMC via MAPK/ERK signaling pathway in stiff ECM. Moreover, CUT and TAG sequencing and dual-luciferase assays demonstrated that Smad3 inhibited the transcription of JUN. The YAP inhibitor CA3 was used in a partial bladder outlet obstruction (pBOO) rat model. The results showed that CA3 attenuated bladder smooth muscle proliferation. Collectively, YAP binding with Smad3 in the nucleus inhibited the transcription of JUN, and promoted the proliferation of bladder smooth muscle through the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway. The current study identified a novel mechanism of mechanical force induced bladder fibrosis that provided insights in YAP-associated organ fibrosis.
PXD032344	36177176	Urinary proteome analysis of acute kidney injury in post-cardiac surgery patients using enrichment materials with high-resolution mass spectrometry. 	Urinary proteome analysis of acute kidney injury in the post-cardiac surgery patients using high-resolution mass spectrometry	Acute Kidney Injury, Differential Analysis, High-Resolution Mass Spectrometry, Urinary Proteome	Background: Cardiac surgery-associated acute kidney injury (CSA-AKI) may increase the mortality and incidence rates of chronic kidney disease in critically ill patients. This study aimed to investigate the underlying correlations between urinary proteomic changes and CSA-AKI. Methods: Nontargeted proteomics was performed using nano liquid chromatography coupled with Orbitrap Exploris mass spectrometry (MS) on urinary samples preoperatively and postoperatively collected from patients with CSA-AKI. Gemini C18 silica microspheres were used to separate and enrich trypsin-hydrolysed peptides under basic mobile phase conditions. Differential analysis was conducted to screen out urinary differential expressed proteins (DEPs) among patients with CSA-AKI for bioinformatics. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database analysis was adopted to identify the altered signal pathways associated with CSA-AKI. Results: Approximately 2000 urinary proteins were identified and quantified through data-independent acquisition MS, and 324 DEPs associated with AKI were screened by univariate statistics. According to KEGG enrichment analysis, the signal pathway of protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum was enriched as the most up-regulated DEPs, and cell adhesion molecules were enriched as the most down-regulated DEPs. In protein-protein interaction analysis, the three hub targets in the up-regulated DEPs were alpha-1-antitrypsin, beta-2-microglobulin and angiotensinogen, and the three key down-regulated DEPs were growth arrest-specific protein 6, matrix metalloproteinase-9 and urokinase-type plasminogen activator. Conclusion: Urinary protein disorder was observed in CSA-AKI due to ischaemia and reperfusion. The application of Gemini C18 silica microspheres can improve the protein identification rate to obtain highly valuable resources for the urinary DEPs of AKI. This work provides valuable knowledge about urinary proteome biomarkers and essential resources for further research on AKI.
PXD027124	36177382	SFPQ promotes RAS-mutant cancer cell growth by modulating 5'-UTR mediated translational control of CK1alpha. 	Human CK1 alpha (CK1alpha) 5'UTR-interacting proteins	CK1a, RAS, cancer, translation	Oncogenic mutations in the RAS family of small GTPases are commonly found in human cancers and they promote tumorigenesis by altering gene expression networks. We previously demonstrated that Casein Kinase 1alpha (CK1alpha), a member of the CK1 family of serine/threonine kinases, is post-transcriptionally upregulated by oncogenic RAS signaling. Here, we report that the CK1alpha mRNA contains an exceptionally long 5'-untranslated region (UTR) harbouring several translational control elements, implicating its involvement in translational regulation. We demonstrate that the CK1alpha 5'-UTR functions as an IRES element in HCT-116 colon cancer cells to promote cap-independent translation. Using tobramycin-affinity RNA-pulldown assays coupled with identification via mass spectrometry, we identified several CK1alpha 5'-UTR-binding proteins, including SFPQ. We show that RNA interference targeting SFPQ reduced CK1alpha protein abundance and partially blocked RAS-mutant colon cancer cell growth. Importantly, transcript and protein levels of SFPQ and other CK1alpha 5'-UTR-associated RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) are found to be elevated in early stages of RAS-mutant cancers, including colorectal and lung adenocarcinoma. Taken together, our study uncovers a previously unappreciated role of RBPs in promoting RAS-mutant cancer cell growth and their potential to serve as promising biomarkers as well as tractable therapeutic targets in cancers driven by oncogenic RAS.
PXD032731	36177742	Development of functional anti-Gn nanobodies specific for SFTSV based on next-generation sequencing and proteomics. 	Development of functional anti-Gn nanobodies specific for SFTSV based on next generation sequencing and proteomics	Camel, LC MS/MS, Nanobody	Severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome (SFTS) is an acute infectious disease caused by novel bunyavirus (SFTSV), with a mortality rate of 6.3% ~ 30%. To date, there is no specific treatment for SFTS. Previously, we demonstrated that SFTSV surface glycoprotein (Glycoprotein N, Gn) was a potential target for the development of SFTS vaccine or therapeutic antibodies, and anti-Gn neutralizing antibodies played a protective role in SFTS infection. Compared with traditional antibodies, nanobodies from camelids have various advantages, including small molecular weight, high affinity, low immunogenicity, convenient production by gene engineering, etc. In this study, we combined next-generation sequencing (NGS) with proteomics technology based on affinity purification-mass spectrometry (AP-MS) and bioinformatics analysis to high-throughput screen monoclonal anti-Gn nanobodies from camel immunized with Gn protein. We identified 19 anti-Gn monoclonal nanobody sequences, of which six sequences were selected for recombinant protein expression and purification. Among these six anti-Gn nanobodies, nanobody 57,493 was validated to be highly specific for Gn. The innovative high-throughput technical route developed in this study could also be expanded to the production of nanobodies specific for other viruses like SARS-CoV-2.
PXD036152	36178657	Vitamin D deficiency leads to the abnormal activation of the complement system. 	Human serum samples proteomic analysis	label-free, serum	Vitamin D deficiency can damage the human immune system, and the complement system is a key component of the immune system. This study aimed to elucidate the mechanism by which vitamin D affects the immune system by analyzing the changes in the protein expression of the complement system under different vitamin D levels. We selected 40 participants and divided them into three groups according to their serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)VD): group A, 25(OH)VD >= 40 ng/mL; group B, 30 ng/mL <= 25(OH)VD < 40 ng/mL; and group C, 25(OH)VD < 30 ng/mL. Serum samples were subjected to biochemical analysis, followed by proteomic analysis using high-throughput untargeted proteomic techniques. Vitamin D deficiency increased the levels of fasting blood sugar, fasting serum insulin, and homeostasis model assessment (HOMA) of insulin resistance and decreased the secretion of HOMA of beta-cell function, which led to insulin resistance and glucose metabolism disorder. Moreover, vitamin D deficiency resulted in the abnormal expression of 56 differential proteins, among which the expression levels of complement factor B, complement component C9, inducible co-stimulator ligand, and peptidase inhibitor 16 significantly changed with the decrease in vitamin D content. Functional enrichment analysis of these differential proteins showed that they were mainly concentrated in functions and pathways related to insulin secretion and inflammation. In conclusion, vitamin D deficiency not only contributes to insulin resistance and glucose metabolism disorder but also causes abnormal protein expression, resulting in the abnormal activation of the complement system. This study provides a novel theoretical basis for further studies on the relationship between vitamin D and the immune system.
PXD024713	36179046	Ectopic expression of meiotic cohesin generates chromosome instability in cancer cell line. 	iTRAQ quantification of ectopic expression of mei-cohesin complexes in DLD1 cells	DLD1, cohesin, meiotic	Many tumors express meiotic genes that could potentially drive somatic chromosome instability. While germline cohesin subunits SMC1B, STAG3, and REC8 are widely expressed in many cancers, messenger RNA and protein for RAD21L subunit are expressed at very low levels. To elucidate the potential of meiotic cohesins to contribute to genome instability, their expression was investigated in human cell lines, predominately in DLD-1. While the induction of the REC8 complex resulted in a mild mitotic phenotype, the expression of the RAD21L complex produced an arrested but viable cell pool, thus providing a source of DNA damage, mitotic chromosome missegregation, sporadic polyteny, and altered gene expression. We also found that genomic binding profiles of ectopically expressed meiotic cohesin complexes were reminiscent of their corresponding specific binding patterns in testis. Furthermore, meiotic cohesins were found to localize to the same sites as BORIS/CTCFL, rather than CTCF sites normally associated with the somatic cohesin complex. These findings highlight the existence of a germline epigenomic memory that is conserved in cells that normally do not express meiotic genes. Our results reveal a mechanism of action by unduly expressed meiotic cohesins that potentially links them to aneuploidy and chromosomal mutations in affected cells.
PXD019959	36179048	Novel biochemical, structural, and systems insights into inflammatory signaling revealed by contextual interaction proteomics. 	Absolute quantification and copy number estimation of the TNF-RSC members in A549 cells	AQUA, PRM, TNF-RSC, copy number	Protein-protein interactions (PPIs) represent the main mode of the proteome organization in the cell. In the last decade, several large-scale representations of PPI networks have captured generic aspects of the functional organization of network components but mostly lack the context of cellular states. However, the generation of context-dependent PPI networks is essential for structural and systems-level modeling of biological processes-a goal that remains an unsolved challenge. Here we describe an experimental/computational strategy to achieve a modeling of PPIs that considers contextual information. This strategy defines the composition, stoichiometry, temporal organization, and cellular requirements for the formation of target assemblies. We used this approach to generate an integrated model of the formation principles and architecture of a large signalosome, the TNF-receptor signaling complex (TNF-RSC). Overall, we show that the integration of systems- and structure-level information provides a generic, largely unexplored link between the modular proteome and cellular function.
PXD049140	36179360	Integrated and High-Throughput Approach for Sensitive Analysis of Tyrosine Phosphoproteome. 	[HPP-2.0] Integrated and high-throughput approach for sensitive analysis of tyrosine phosphoproteome	high throughput, phosphotyrosine site	Tyrosine phosphorylation (pTyr) regulates various signaling pathways under normal and cancerous states. Due to their low abundance and transient and dynamic natures, systematic profiling of pTyr sites is challenging. Antibody and engineered binding domain-based approaches have been well applied to pTyr peptide enrichment. However, traditional methods have the disadvantage of a long sample preparation process, which makes them unsuitable for processing limited amount of samples, especially in a high-throughput manner. In this study we developed a 96-well microplate-based approach to integrate all the sample preparation steps starting from cell culture to MS-compatible pTyr peptide enrichment in three consecutive 96-well microplates. By assembling an engineered SH2 domain onto a microplate, nonspecific adsorption of phosphopeptides is greatly reduced, which allows us to remove the Ti-IMAC purification and three C18 desalting steps (after digestion, pTyr enrichment, and Ti-IMAC purification) and, therefore, greatly simplifies the entire pTyr peptide enrichment workflow, especially when processing a large number of samples. Starting with 96-well microplate-cultured, pervanadate-stimulated cells, our approach could enrich 21% more pTyr sites than the traditional serial pTyr enrichment approach and showed good sensitivity and reproducibility in the range of 200 ng to 200 mug peptides. Importantly, we applied this approach to profile tyrosine kinase inhibitor-mediated EGFR signaling pathway and could well differentiate the distinct response of different pTyr sites. Collectively, the integrated 96-well microplate-based approach is valuable for profiling pTyr sites from limited biological samples and in a high-throughput manner.
PXD034414	36179369	Stress granules and mTOR are regulated by membrane atg8ylation during lysosomal damage. 	Membrane atg8ylation coordinates stress granule formation and mTOR inactivation in response to lysosomal damage	lysosomal damage, mTOR	We report that lysosomal damage is a hitherto unknown inducer of stress granule (SG) formation and that the process termed membrane atg8ylation coordinates SG formation with mTOR inactivation during lysosomal stress. SGs were induced by lysosome-damaging agents including SARS-CoV-2ORF3a, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and proteopathic tau. During damage, mammalian ATG8s directly interacted with the core SG proteins NUFIP2 and G3BP1. Atg8ylation was needed for their recruitment to damaged lysosomes independently of SG condensates whereupon NUFIP2 contributed to mTOR inactivation via the Ragulator-RagA/B complex. Thus, cells employ membrane atg8ylation to control and coordinate SG and mTOR responses to lysosomal damage.
PXD033766	36179689	Human immunoglobulin repertoire analysis guides design of vaccine priming immunogens targeting HIV V2-apex broadly neutralizing antibody precursors. 	Human Immunoglobulin Repertoire-Guided Immunogen Design Targeting HIV V2-Apex Broadly Neutralizing Antibody Precursors	AIDS Vaccines, HIV Antibodies, Immunoinformatics, Structural Vaccinology	Broadly neutralizing antibodies (bnAbs) to the HIV envelope (Env) V2-apex region are important leads for HIV vaccine design. Most V2-apex bnAbs engage Env with an uncommonly long heavy-chain complementarity-determining region 3 (HCDR3), suggesting that the rarity of bnAb precursors poses a challenge for vaccine priming. We created precursor sequence definitions for V2-apex HCDR3-dependent bnAbs and searched for related precursors in human antibody heavy-chain ultradeep sequencing data from 14 HIV-unexposed donors. We found potential precursors in a majority of donors for only two long-HCDR3 V2-apex bnAbs, PCT64 and PG9, identifying these bnAbs as priority vaccine targets. We then engineered ApexGT Env trimers that bound inferred germlines for PCT64 and PG9 and had higher affinities for bnAbs, determined cryo-EM structures of ApexGT trimers complexed with inferred-germline and bnAb forms of PCT64 and PG9, and developed an mRNA-encoded cell-surface ApexGT trimer. These methods and immunogens have promise to assist HIV vaccine development.
PXD034560	36180490	Mechanistic insight into the role of mevalonate kinase by a natural fatty acid-mediated killing of Leishmania donovani. 	Mechanistic insight into the role of enzyme mevalonate kinase by a natural fatty acid -mediated killing of Leishmania donovani	caprylic acid, competitive inhibition, ergosterol depletion, mevalonate kinase, visceral leishmaniasis	We evaluated the anti-leishmanial efficacy of different saturated medium-chain fatty acids (FAs, C8-C18) where FA containing C8 chain, caprylic acid (CA), was found to be most potent against Leishmania donovani, the causative agent for visceral leishmaniasis (VL). Different analogs of CA with C8 linear chain, but not higher, along with a carboxyl/ester group showed a similar anti-leishmanial effect. Ergosterol depletion was the major cause of CA-mediated cell death. Molecular docking and molecular dynamic simulation studies indicated the enzyme mevalonate kinase (MevK) of the ergosterol biosynthesis pathway as a possible target of CA. Enzyme assays with purified recombinant MevK and CA/CA analogs confirmed the target with a competitive inhibition pattern. Using biochemical and biophysical studies; strong binding interaction between MevK and CA/CA analogs was established. Further, using parasites with overexpressed MevK and proteomics studies of CA-treated parasites the direct role of MevK as the target was validated. We established the mechanism of the antileishmanial effect of CA, a natural product, against VL where toxicity and drug resistance with current chemotherapeutics demand an alternative. This is the first report on the identification of an enzymatic target with kinetic parameters and mechanistic insights against any organism for a natural medium-chain FA.
PXD036447	36180527	SARS-CoV-2 Nsp6 damages Drosophila heart and mouse cardiomyocytes through MGA/MAX complex-mediated increased glycolysis. 	SARS-CoV-2 Nsp6 damages Drosophila heart and mouse cardiomyocytes through MGA/MAX complex-mediated increased glycolysis	Covid-19, Human HEK 293T cell line, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2	SARS-CoV-2 infection causes COVID-19, a severe acute respiratory disease associated with cardiovascular complications including long-term outcomes. The presence of virus in cardiac tissue of patients with COVID-19 suggests this is a direct, rather than secondary, effect of infection. Here, by expressing individual SARS-CoV-2 proteins in the Drosophila heart, we demonstrate interaction of virus Nsp6 with host proteins of the MGA/MAX complex (MGA, PCGF6 and TFDP1). Complementing transcriptomic data from the fly heart reveal that this interaction blocks the antagonistic MGA/MAX complex, which shifts the balance towards MYC/MAX and activates glycolysis-with similar findings in mouse cardiomyocytes. Further, the Nsp6-induced glycolysis disrupts cardiac mitochondrial function, known to increase reactive oxygen species (ROS) in heart failure; this could explain COVID-19-associated cardiac pathology. Inhibiting the glycolysis pathway by 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2DG) treatment attenuates the Nsp6-induced cardiac phenotype in flies and mice. These findings point to glycolysis as a potential pharmacological target for treating COVID-19-associated heart failure.
PXD036931	36180938	Identification of molecular subtypes based on inflammatory response in lower-grade glioma. 	identification of the altered protein between wildtype and YTHDF1 knockout B16/F10 using Tandemâ€‚Massâ€‚Tag	B16/F10, TMT, YTHDF1	BACKGROUND: Inflammatory response is an important characteristic affecting prognosis and therapeutic response in lower-grade glioma (LGG). However, the molecular subtypes based on inflammatory response are still under exploitation. METHODS: The RNA sequencing, somatic mutation, and corresponding clinical data from 1205 LGG patients were obtained from the TCGA, CGGA, and Rembrandt cohorts. Consensus clustering was performed to identify molecular subtypes associated with inflammation. Prognosis, clinicopathologic features, immune cell infiltration, and somatic mutation profile were compared among these inflammation-associated subtypes. RESULTS: Our results demonstrate that LGG could be categorized into inflammation-, low, -mid, and -high subtypes with distinct clinicopathologic features, prognostic and tumor microenvironment. We established that this categorization was reproducible, as well as predictable. In general, inflammation-high subtype presents a dismal prognosis with the immunosuppressive microenvironment and high frequency of oncogene mutation. Inversely, inflammation-low subtype was associated with the most favorable clinical outcomes with the immunoreactive microenvironment among three subtypes. Moreover, we develop and validate an inflammation-related prognostic model, which shows strong power for prognosis assessment. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, we established a novel glioma classification based on the inflammation subtype. This classification had significant outcomes for estimating the prognosis, as well as the tumor microenvironment.
PXD030817	36182100	The Mechano-Ubiquitinome of Articular Cartilage: Differential Ubiquitination and Activation of a Group of ER-Associated DUBs and ER Stress Regulators. 	Ubiquitomics and proteomics analysis of porcine articular cartilage post mechanical injury	Ubiquitomics, cartilage, injury	Understanding how connective tissue cells respond to mechanical stimulation is important to human health and disease processes in musculoskeletal diseases. Injury to articular cartilage is a key risk factor in predisposition to tissue damage and degenerative osteoarthritis. Recently, we have discovered that mechanical injury to connective tissues including murine and porcine articular cartilage causes a significant increase in lysine-63 polyubiquitination. Here, we identified the ubiquitin signature that is unique to injured articular cartilage tissue upon mechanical injury (the "mechano-ubiquitinome"). A total of 463 ubiquitinated peptides were identified, with an enrichment of ubiquitinated peptides of proteins involved in protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), also known as the ER-associated degradation response, including YOD1, BRCC3, ATXN3, and USP5 as well as the ER stress regulators, RAD23B, VCP/p97, and Ubiquilin 1. Enrichment of these proteins suggested an injury-induced ER stress response and, for instance, ER stress markers DDIT3/CHOP and BIP/GRP78 were upregulated following cartilage injury on the protein and gene expression levels. Similar ER stress induction was also observed in response to tail fin injury in zebrafish larvae, suggesting a generic response to tissue injury. Furthermore, a rapid increase in global DUB activity following injury and significant activity in human osteoarthritic cartilage was observed using DUB-specific activity probes. Combined, these results implicate the involvement of ubiquitination events and activation of a set of DUBs and ER stress regulators in cellular responses to cartilage tissue injury and in osteoarthritic cartilage tissues. This link through the ER-associated degradation pathway makes this protein set attractive for further investigation in in vivo models of tissue injury and for targeting in osteoarthritis and related musculoskeletal diseases.
PXD036590	36182629	Plasma proteomic signature predicts who will get persistent symptoms following SARS-CoV-2 infection. 	Plasma proteomic signature predicts who will get persistent symptoms following SARS-CoV-2 infection	COVID-19, Covid-19, Plasma, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, long-COVID	BACKGROUND: The majority of those infected by ancestral Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) during the UK first wave (starting March 2020) did not require hospitalisation. Most had a short-lived mild or asymptomatic infection, while others had symptoms that persisted for weeks or months. We hypothesized that the plasma proteome at the time of first infection would reflect differences in the inflammatory response that linked to symptom severity and duration. METHODS: We performed a nested longitudinal case-control study and targeted analysis of the plasma proteome of 156 healthcare workers (HCW) with and without lab confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. Targeted proteomic multiple-reaction monitoring analysis of 91 pre-selected proteins was undertaken in uninfected healthcare workers at baseline, and in infected healthcare workers serially, from 1 week prior to 6 weeks after their first confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection. Symptom severity and antibody responses were also tracked. Questionnaires at 6 and 12 months collected data on persistent symptoms. FINDINGS: Within this cohort (median age 39 years, interquartile range 30-47 years), 54 healthcare workers (44% male) had PCR or antibody confirmed infection, with the remaining 102 (38% male) serving as uninfected controls. Following the first confirmed SARS-CoV-2 infection, perturbation of the plasma proteome persisted for up to 6 weeks, tracking symptom severity and antibody responses. Differentially abundant proteins were mostly coordinated around lipid, atherosclerosis and cholesterol metabolism pathways, complement and coagulation cascades, autophagy, and lysosomal function. The proteomic profile at the time of seroconversion associated with persistent symptoms out to 12 months. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD036590. INTERPRETATION: Our findings show that non-severe SARS-CoV-2 infection perturbs the plasma proteome for at least 6 weeks. The plasma proteomic signature at the time of seroconversion has the potential to identify which individuals are more likely to suffer from persistent symptoms related to SARS-CoV-2 infection. FUNDING INFORMATION: The COVIDsortium is supported by funding donated by individuals, charitable Trusts, and corporations including Goldman Sachs, Citadel and Citadel Securities, The Guy Foundation, GW Pharmaceuticals, Kusuma Trust, and Jagclif Charitable Trust, and enabled by Barts Charity with support from University College London Hospitals (UCLH) Charity. This work was additionally supported by the Translational Mass Spectrometry Research Group and the Biomedical Research Center (BRC) at Great Ormond Street Hospital.
PXD029424	36183837	Integrated proteomics identifies PARP inhibitor-induced prosurvival signaling changes as potential vulnerabilities in ovarian cancer. 	Integrative functional proteomics identifies PARP1 protein complex differences and PARP inhibitor-mediated DDR and AKT-mTOR signaling in ovarian carcinoma: Chemical Proteomics	BRCA-deficient, Ovarian cancer, PARP1, chemical proteomics	BRCA1/2-deficient ovarian carcinoma (OC) has been shown to be particularly sensitive to poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibitors (PARPis). Furthermore, BRCA1/2 mutation status is currently used as a predictive biomarker for PARPi therapy. Despite providing a major clinical benefit to the majority of patients, a significant proportion of BRCA1/2-deficient OC tumors do not respond to PARPis for reasons that are incompletely understood. Using an integrated chemical, phospho- and ADP-ribosylation proteomics approach, we sought here to develop additional mechanism-based biomarker candidates for PARPi therapy in OC and identify new targets for combination therapy to overcome primary resistance. Using chemical proteomics with PARPi baits in a BRCA1-isogenic OC cell line pair, as well as patient-derived BRCA1-proficient and BRCA1-deficient tumor samples, and subsequent validation by coimmunoprecipitation, we showed differential PARP1 and PARP2 protein complex composition in PARPi-sensitive, BRCA1-deficient UWB1.289 (UWB) cells compared to PARPi-insensitive, BRCA1-reconstituted UWB1.289+BRCA1 (UWB+B) cells. In addition, global phosphoproteomics and ADP-ribosylation proteomics furthermore revealed that the PARPi rucaparib induced the cell cycle pathway and nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ) pathway in UWB cells but downregulated ErbB signaling in UWB+B cells. In addition, we observed AKT PARylation and prosurvival AKT-mTOR signaling in UWB+B cells after PARPi treatment. Consistently, we found the synergy of PARPis with DNAPK or AKT inhibitors was more pronounced in UWB+B cells, highlighting these pathways as actionable vulnerabilities. In conclusion, we demonstrate the combination of chemical proteomics, phosphoproteomics, and ADP-ribosylation proteomics can identify differential PARP1/2 complexes and diverse, but actionable, drug compensatory signaling in OC.
PXD028504	36184622	Comprehensive characterization of ubiquitinome of human colorectal cancer and identification of potential survival-related ubiquitination. 	Comprehensive analyses characterized ubiquintome of human colorectal cancer and revealed increased ubiquitination on FOCAD potentially associating patient survival	FOCAD, Ubiquintome, colorectal cancer, multi-omics study, public database	BACKGROUND: According to the Global Cancer Statistics in 2020, the incidence and mortality of colorectal cancer (CRC) rank third and second among all tumors. The disturbance of ubiquitination plays an important role in the initiation and development of CRC, but the ubiquitinome of CRC cells and the survival-relevant ubiquitination are poorly understood. METHODS: The ubiquitinome of CRC patients (n = 6) was characterized using our own data sets of proteomic and ubiquitin-proteomic examinations. Then, the probable survival-relevant ubiquitination was searched based on the analyses of data sets from public databases. RESULTS: For the ubiquitinomic examination, we identified 1690 quantifiable sites and 870 quantifiable proteins. We found that the highly-ubiquitinated proteins (n >= 10) were specifically involved in the biological processes such as G-protein coupling, glycoprotein coupling, and antigen presentation. Also, we depicted five motif sequences frequently recognized by ubiquitin. Subsequently, we revealed that the ubiquitination content of 1172 proteins were up-regulated and 1700 proteins were down-regulated in CRC cells versus normal adjacent cells. We demonstrated that the differentially ubiquitinated proteins were relevant to the pathways including metabolism, immune regulation, and telomere maintenance. Then, integrated with the proteomic datasets from the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) (n = 98), we revealed that the increased ubiquitination of FOCAD at Lys583 and Lys587 was potentially associated with patient survival. Finally, we depicted the mutation map of FOCAD and elucidated its potential functions on RNA localization and translation in CRC. CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study described the ubiquitinome of CRC cells and identified abnormal ubiquitination(s) potentially affecting the patient survival, thereby offering new probable opportunities for clinical treatment.
PXD034717	36185307	Phosphoproteomics reveals that cinobufotalin promotes intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma cell apoptosis by activating the ATM/CHK2/p53 signaling pathway. 	Phosphoproteomics reveals that cinobufotalin promotes intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma cell apoptosis by activating the ATM/CHK2/p53 signaling pathway	Phosphoproteomics	Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is a malignant tumor that originates from bile duct's epithelial cells and is usually characterized by insidious symptoms and poor prognosis. Cinobufotalin (CB), an active ingredient obtained from the Traditional Chinese Medicine ChanSu, is purported to exhibit a wide range of antitumorigenic activities. However, the mechanism by which it achieves such pharmacological effects remains elusive. Here, we disclosed the mechanism of action by which CB inhibits ICC cells. Initial experiments revealed that the proliferation of RBE and HCCC-9810 cells was significantly inhibited by CB with IC50 values of 0.342 muM and 0.421 muM respectively. CB induced the expression of caspase-3 subsequently leading to the apoptosis of ICC cells. Phosphoproteomics revealed that the phosphorylation of many proteins associated with DNA damage response increased. Kinase-substrate enrichment analysis revealed that ATM was activated after CB treatment, while CDK1 was inactivated. Activated ATM increased p-CHK2-T68 and p-p53-S15, which promoted the expression of FAS, DR4 and DR5 and triggered cell apoptosis. In summary, this work reveals the role of CB in inducing DNA damage and cell apoptosis involved in the activation of the ATM/CHK2/p53 signaling pathway, and indicates that CB may serve as a chemotherapeutic drug candidate for ICC treatment.
PXD035178	36186984	Selective inhibition of soluble tumor necrosis factor signaling reduces abdominal aortic aneurysm progression. 	Selective inhibition of soluble tumor necrosis factor signaling reduces abdominal aortic aneurysm progression	mouse abdominal aorta aneurysm	Background: Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) is pathologically elevated in human abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA). Non-selective TNF inhibition-based therapeutics are approved for human use but have been linked to several side effects. Compounds that target the proinflammatory soluble form of TNF (solTNF) but preserve the immunomodulatory capabilities of the transmembrane form of TNF (tmTNF) may prevent these side effects. We hypothesize that inhibition of solTNF signaling prevents AAA expansion. Methods: The effect of the selective solTNF inhibitor, XPro1595, and the non-selective TNF inhibitor, Etanercept (ETN) was examined in porcine pancreatic elastase (PPE) induced AAA mice, and findings with XPro1595 was confirmed in angiotensin II (ANGII) induced AAA in hyperlipidemic apolipoprotein E (Apoe) (-/-) mice. Results: XPro1595 treatment significantly reduced AAA expansion in both models, and a similar trend (p = 0.06) was observed in PPE-induced AAA in ETN-treated mice. In the PPE aneurysm wall, XPro1595 improved elastin integrity scores. In aneurysms, mean TNFR1 levels reduced non-significantly (p = 0.07) by 50% after TNF inhibition, but the histological location in murine AAAs was unaffected and similar to that in human AAAs. Semi-quantification of infiltrating leucocytes, macrophages, T-cells, and neutrophils in the aneurysm wall were unaffected by TNF inhibition. XPro1595 increased systemic TNF levels, while ETN increased systemic IL-10 levels. In ANGII-induced AAA mice, XPro1595 increased systemic TNF and IL-5 levels. In early AAA development, proteomic analyses revealed that XPro1595 significantly upregulated ontology terms including "platelet aggregation" and "coagulation" related to the fibrinogen complex, from which several proteins were among the top regulated proteins. Downregulated ontology terms were associated with metabolic processes. Conclusion: In conclusion, selective inhibition of solTNF signaling reduced aneurysm expansion in mice, supporting its potential as an attractive treatment option for AAA patients.
PXD032384	36187967	The AhR ligand phthiocol and vitamin K analogs as Pseudomonas aeruginosa quorum sensing inhibitors. 	P.aeruginosa PAO1+Pht Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomic analysis	P.aeruginosa, Pht	The aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) protein senses microbial-secreted metabolites to trigger the host's innate immune system. The Pseudomonas quinolone signal (PQS) and Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTb) metabolite phthiocol (Pht) are both ligands of AhR with similar chemical structures. As PQS is an essential quorum-sensing molecule that regulates a wide range of virulence factors in Pseudomonas aeruginosa, we hypothesized that Pht and its analogs are potential P. aeruginosa quorum-sensing inhibitors (QSIs) with immune-modulating functions. In this study, we demonstrated that Pht was able to inhibit the P. aeruginosa pqs QS system and reduce both biofilm formation and the production of pyocyanin. Molecular docking analysis suggested that Pht competes with PQS at the binding site of its receptor, PqsR. An electrophoretic mobility shift assay confirmed the Pht-PqsR interaction and showed that Pht attenuated PqsR from binding to the pqsA promoter. Proteomic analysis showed that synthesis of the key pqs QS proteins decreased upon the addition of Pht to the bacterial cultures. Furthermore, Pht analogs vitamins K1 (Phylloquinone), K2 (Menaquinones), and K3 (Menadione) were also showed to inhibit the P. aeruginosa pqs QS system while able to activate the AhR signaling pathways. Our study suggests that the AhR ligands Pht and its vitamin K analogs are promising QSIs for the alternative treatment of P. aeruginosa infections.
PXD034335	36189882	Probing protein ubiquitination in live cells. 	Identification of ubiquitination targets of UHRF1	DNA methylation, Heterochromatin binding protein (HP1), Posttranslational modifications (PMT), UHFR1, protein degradation, ubiquitination	The reversible attachment of ubiquitin governs the interaction, activity and degradation of proteins whereby the type and target of this conjugation determine the biological response. The investigation of this complex and multi-faceted protein ubiquitination mostly relies on painstaking biochemical analyses. Here, we employ recombinant binding domains to probe the ubiquitination of proteins in living cells. We immobilize GFP-fused proteins of interest at a distinct cellular structure and detect their ubiquitination state with red fluorescent ubiquitin binders. With this ubiquitin fluorescent three-hybrid (ubiF3H) assay we identified HP1beta as a novel ubiquitination target of UHRF1. The use of linkage specific ubiquitin binding domains enabled the discrimination of K48 and K63 linked protein ubiquitination. To enhance signal-to-noise ratio, we implemented fluorescence complementation (ubiF3Hc) with split YFP. Using in addition a cell cycle marker we could show that HP1beta is mostly ubiquitinated by UHRF1 during S phase and deubiquitinated by the protease USP7. With this complementation assay we could also directly detect the ubiquitination of the tumor suppressor p53 and monitor its inhibition by the anti-cancer drug Nutlin-3. Altogether, we demonstrate the utility of the ubiF3H assay to probe the ubiquitination of specific proteins and to screen for ligases, proteases and small molecules controlling this posttranslational modification.
PXD033546	36190452	Conditional Covalent Lethality Driven by Oncometabolite Accumulation. 	Conditional covalent lethality driven by oncometabolite accumulation	Fumarate, HLRCC, TRMT1, chemoproteomics, fumarate hydratase, oncometabalite	Hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal cell carcinoma (HLRCC) is a cancer predisposition syndrome driven by mutation of the tumor suppressor fumarate hydratase (FH). Inactivation of FH causes accumulation of the electrophilic oncometabolite fumarate. In the absence of methods for reactivation, tumor suppressors can be targeted via identification of synthetic lethal interactions using genetic screens. Inspired by recent advances in chemoproteomic target identification, here, we test the hypothesis that the electrophilicity of the HLRCC metabolome may produce unique susceptibilities to covalent small molecules, a phenomenon we term conditional covalent lethality. Screening a panel of chemically diverse electrophiles, we identified a covalent ligand, MP-1, that exhibits FH-dependent cytotoxicity. Synthesis and structure-activity profiling identified key molecular determinants underlying the molecule's effects. Chemoproteomic profiling of cysteine reactivity together with clickable probes validated the ability of MP-1 to engage an array of functional cysteines, including one lying in the Zn-finger domain of the tRNA methyltransferase enzyme TRMT1. TRMT1 overexpression rescues tRNA methylation from inhibition by MP-1 and partially attenuates the covalent ligand's cytotoxicity. Our studies highlight the potential for covalent metabolites and small molecules to synergistically produce novel synthetic lethal interactions and raise the possibility of applying phenotypic screening with chemoproteomic target identification to identify new functional oncometabolite targets.
PXD032982	36191235	Crystal structure and biochemical analysis suggest that YjoB ATPase is a putative substrate-specific molecular chaperone. 	Identification of Bacillus subtilis YjoB-binding proteins using AP-MS	AAA+ protein, ATPase, Bacillus subtilis, YjoB, chaperone	AAA+ ATPases are ubiquitous proteins associated with most cellular processes, including DNA unwinding and protein unfolding. Their functional and structural properties are typically determined by domains and motifs added to the conserved ATPases domain. Currently, the molecular function and structure of many ATPases remain elusive. Here, we report the crystal structure and biochemical analyses of YjoB, a Bacillus subtilis AAA+ protein. The crystal structure revealed that the YjoB hexamer forms a bucket hat-shaped structure with a porous chamber. Biochemical analyses showed that YjoB prevents the aggregation of vegetative catalase KatA and gluconeogenesis-specific glyceraldehyde-3 phosphate dehydrogenase GapB but not citrate synthase, a conventional substrate. Structural and biochemical analyses further showed that the internal chamber of YjoB is necessary for inhibition of substrate aggregation. Our results suggest that YjoB, conserved in the class Bacilli, is a potential molecular chaperone acting in the starvation/stationary phases of B. subtilis growth.
PXD029577	36192133	Ribosome-bound Upf1 forms distinct 80S complexes and conducts mRNA surveillance. 	Ribosome-bound Upf1 forms distinct 80S complexes and conducts mRNA surveillance	NMD substrates, Upf proteins, ribosome, selective ribosome profiling	Upf1, Upf2, and Upf3, the central regulators of nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD), appear to exercise their NMD functions while bound to elongating ribosomes, and evidence for this conclusion is particularly compelling for Upf1. Hence, we used selective profiling of yeast Upf1:ribosome association to define that step in greater detail, understand whether the nature of the mRNA being translated influences Upf1:80S interaction, and elucidate the functions of ribosome-associated Upf1. Our approach has allowed us to clarify the timing and specificity of Upf1 association with translating ribosomes, obtain evidence for a Upf1 mRNA surveillance function that precedes the activation of NMD, identify a unique ribosome state that generates 37-43 nt ribosome footprints whose accumulation is dependent on Upf1's ATPase activity, and demonstrate that a mutated form of Upf1 can interfere with normal translation termination and ribosome release. In addition, our results strongly support the existence of at least two distinct functional Upf1 complexes in the NMD pathway.
PXD035911	36192599	HK1 from hepatic stellate cell-derived extracellular vesicles promotes progression of hepatocellular carcinoma. 	HK1 from HSC-derived extracellular vesicles promotes HCC progression	Hexokinase 1 (HK1), fibrosis, hepatic stellate cell (HSC), hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), large extracellular vesicle (lEV)/small extracellular vesicles (sEV), nuclear receptor Nur77	Extracellular vesicles play crucial roles in intercellular communication in the tumor microenvironment. Here we demonstrate that in hepatic fibrosis, TGF-beta stimulates the palmitoylation of hexokinase 1 (HK1) in hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), which facilitates the secretion of HK1 via large extracellular vesicles in a TSG101-dependent manner. The large extracellular vesicle HK1 is hijacked by hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, leading to accelerated glycolysis and HCC progression. In HSCs, the nuclear receptor Nur77 transcriptionally activates the expression of depalmitoylase ABHD17B to inhibit HK1 palmitoylation, consequently attenuating HK1 release. However, TGF-beta-activated Akt functionally represses Nur77 by inducing Nur77 phosphorylation and degradation. We identify the small molecule PDNPA that binds Nur77 to generate steric hindrance to block Akt targeting, thereby disrupting Akt-mediated Nur77 degradation and preserving Nur77 inhibition of HK1 release. Together, this study demonstrates an overlooked function of HK1 in HCC upon its release from HSCs and highlights PDNPA as a candidate compound for inhibiting HCC progression.
PXD035855	36192632	Alternative RNA splicing modulates ribosomal composition and determines the spatial phenotype of glioblastoma cells. 	Phosphoproteome of glioblastoma cells after FG1059 treatment	Glioblastoma, RNA splicing, RPL22L1, intratumoral heterogeneity, ribosome	Glioblastoma (GBM) is characterized by exceptionally high intratumoral heterogeneity. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the origin of different GBM cell populations remain unclear. Here, we found that the compositions of ribosomes of GBM cells in the tumour core and edge differ due to alternative RNA splicing. The acidic pH in the core switches before messenger RNA splicing of the ribosomal gene RPL22L1 towards the RPL22L1b isoform. This allows cells to survive acidosis, increases stemness and correlates with worse patient outcome. Mechanistically, RPL22L1b promotes RNA splicing by interacting with lncMALAT1 in the nucleus and inducing its degradation. Contrarily, in the tumour edge region, RPL22L1a interacts with ribosomes in the cytoplasm and upregulates the translation of multiple messenger RNAs including TP53. We found that the RPL22L1 isoform switch is regulated by SRSF4 and identified a compound that inhibits this process and decreases tumour growth. These findings demonstrate how distinct GBM cell populations arise during tumour growth. Targeting this mechanism may decrease GBM heterogeneity and facilitate therapy.
PXD023270	36193016	Crotonylation versus acetylation in petunia corollas with reduced acetyl-CoA due to PaACL silencing. 	Crotonylation versus acetylation in PaACL-silenced corollas in petunia	Acetylation, Crotonylation, Crotonylome, Gene silencing, PaACL, Petunia	Protein acetylation and crotonylation are important posttranslational modifications of lysine. In animal cells, the correlation of acetylation and crotonylation has been well characterized and the lysines of some proteins are acetylated or crotonylated depending on the relative concentrations of acetyl-CoA and crotonyl-CoA. However, in plants, the correlation of acetylation and crotonylation and the effects of the relative intracellular concentrations of crotonyl-CoA and acetyl-CoA on protein crotonylation and acetylation are not well known. In our previous study, PaACL silencing changed the content of acetyl-CoA in petunia (Petunia hybrida) corollas, and the effect of PaACL silencing on the global acetylation proteome in petunia was analyzed. In the present study, we found that PaACL silencing did not significantly alter the content of crotonyl-CoA. We performed a global crotonylation proteome analysis of the corollas of PaACL-silenced and control petunia plants; we found that protein crotonylation was closely related to protein acetylation and that proteins with more crotonylation sites often had more acetylation sites. Crotonylated proteins and acetylated proteins were enriched in many common Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways. However, PaACL silencing resulted in different KEGG pathway enrichments of proteins with different levels of crotonylation sites and acetylation sites. PaACLB1-B2 silencing did not led to changes in the opposite direction in crotonylation and acetylation levels at the same lysine site in cytoplasmic proteins, which indicated that cytoplasmic lysine acetylation and crotonylation might not depend on the relative concentrations of acetyl-CoA and crotonyl-CoA. Moreover, the global crotonylome and acetylome were weakly positively correlated in the corollas of PaACL-silenced and control plants.
PXD036467	36193784	Differential histone deacetylase inhibitor-induced perturbations of the global proteome landscape in the setting of high-grade serous ovarian cancer. 	Differential histone deacetylase inhibitor-induced perturbations of the global proteomic landscape in the setting of high-grade serous ovarian cancer	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, high-grade serous ovarian cancer, histone deacetylase, histone deacetylase inhibitor	High-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC) is the most lethal gynecologic malignancy in women. Its low survival rate is attributed to late detection, relapse, and drug resistance. The lack of effective second-line therapeutics remains a significant challenge. There is an opportunity to incorporate the use of histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) into HGSOC treatment. However, the mechanism and efficacy of HDACi in the context of BRCA-1/2 mutation status is understudied. Therefore, we set out to elucidate how HDACi perturb the proteomic landscape within HGSOC cells. In this work, we used TMT labeling followed by data-dependent acquisition LC-MS/MS to quantitatively determine differences in the global proteomic landscape across HDACi-treated CAOV3, OVCAR3, and COV318 (BRCA-1/2 wildtype) HGSOC cells. We identified significant differences in the HDACi-induced perturbations of global protein regulation across CAOV3, OVCAR3, and COV318 cells. The HDACi Vorinostat and Romidepsin were identified as being the least and most effective in inhibiting HDAC activity across the three cell lines, respectively. Our results provide a justification for the further investigation of the functional mechanisms associated with the differential efficacy of FDA-approved HDACi within the context of HGSOC. This will enhance the efficacy of targeted HGSOC therapeutic treatment modalities that include HDACi.
PXD029529	36193887	Machine learning-assisted elucidation of CD81-CD44 interactions in promoting cancer stemness and extracellular vesicle integrity. 	CD81 facilitates tumor cell clustering and metastasis in triple negative breast cancer	CD81, circulating tumor cells, triple negative breast cancer	Tumor-initiating cells with reprogramming plasticity or stem-progenitor cell properties (stemness) are thought to be essential for cancer development and metastatic regeneration in many cancers; however, elucidation of the underlying molecular network and pathways remains demanding. Combining machine learning and experimental investigation, here we report CD81, a tetraspanin transmembrane protein known to be enriched in extracellular vesicles (EVs), as a newly identified driver of breast cancer stemness and metastasis. Using protein structure modeling and interface prediction-guided mutagenesis, we demonstrate that membrane CD81 interacts with CD44 through their extracellular regions in promoting tumor cell cluster formation and lung metastasis of triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) in human and mouse models. In-depth global and phosphoproteomic analyses of tumor cells deficient with CD81 or CD44 unveils endocytosis-related pathway alterations, leading to further identification of a quality-keeping role of CD44 and CD81 in EV secretion as well as in EV-associated stemness-promoting function. CD81 is coexpressed along with CD44 in human circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and enriched in clustered CTCs that promote cancer stemness and metastasis, supporting the clinical significance of CD81 in association with patient outcomes. Our study highlights machine learning as a powerful tool in facilitating the molecular understanding of new molecular targets in regulating stemness and metastasis of TNBC.
PXD034017	36194871	Extending the Mass Spectrometry-Detectable Landscape of MHC Peptides by Use of Restricted Access Material. 	Extending the Mass Spectrometry-Detectable Landscape of the Immunopeptidome by use of Restricted access Material	Immunopeptidomics, Restricted Access Material, Solid phase extraction	Mass spectrometry-based immunopeptidomics enables the comprehensive identification of major histocompatibility complex (MHC) peptides from a cell culture as well as from tissue or tumor samples and is applied for the identification of tumor-specific and viral T-cell epitopes. Although mass spectrometry is generally considered an "unbiased" method for MHC peptide identification, the physicochemical properties of MHC peptides can greatly influence their detectability. Here, we demonstrate that highly hydrophobic peptides are lost during sample preparation when C18 solid-phase extraction (SPE) is used for separating MHC peptides from proteins. To overcome this limitation, we established an optimized protocol involving restricted access material (RAM). Compared to C18-SPE, RAM-SPE improved the overall MHC peptide recovery and extended the landscape of mass spectrometry-detectable MHC peptides toward more hydrophobic peptides.
PXD025450	36195598	Autophagy induction promoted by m(6)A reader YTHDF3 through translation upregulation of FOXO3 mRNA. 	Label-free quantitative proteomics for screening dynamic autophagy-related proteins during nutrient deprivation in MEFs	MEFs, Quantitative proteomics, autophagy, nutrient deprivation	Autophagy is crucial for maintaining cellular energy homeostasis and for cells to adapt to nutrient deficiency, and nutrient sensors regulating autophagy have been reported previously. However, the role of eiptranscriptomic modifications such as m(6)A in the regulation of starvation-induced autophagy is unclear. Here, we show that the m(6)A reader YTHDF3 is essential for autophagy induction. m(6)A modification is up-regulated to promote autophagosome formation and lysosomal degradation upon nutrient deficiency. METTL3 depletion leads to a loss of functional m(6)A modification and inhibits YTHDF3-mediated autophagy flux. YTHDF3 promotes autophagy by recognizing m(6)A modification sites around the stop codon of FOXO3 mRNA. YTHDF3 also recruits eIF3a and eIF4B to facilitate FOXO3 translation, subsequently initiating autophagy. Overall, our study demonstrates that the epitranscriptome regulator YTHDF3 functions as a nutrient responder, providing a glimpse into the post-transcriptional RNA modifications that regulate metabolic homeostasis.
PXD036347	36196375	Setting Up a Better Infection: Overexpression of the Early Bacteriophage T4 Gene motB During Infection Results in a More Favorable tRNA Pool for the Phage. 	T4 protein MotB expression in Escherichia coli, HPLC-MS	Bacteriophage, E. coli, HPLS-MS	Background: : Although many bacteriophage T4 early genes are nonessential with unknown functions, they are believed to aid in the takeover of the Escherichia coli host. Understanding the functions of these genes could be helpful to develop novel antibacterial strategies. MotB, encoded by a previously uncharacterized T4 early gene, is a DNA-binding protein that compacts the host nucleoid and alters host gene expression. Methods: : MotB structure was predicted by AlphaFold 2. RNA-seq and mass spectrometry (MS) analyses were performed to determine RNA and protein changes when motB was overexpressed in E. coli BL21(DE3) +/-5 min T4 infection. Results: : MotB structure is predicted to be a two-domain protein with N-terminal Kyprides-Onzonis-Woese and C-terminal oligonucleotide/oligosaccharide-fold domains. In E. coli B, motB overexpression during infection does not affect T4 RNAs, but affects the expression of host genes, including the downregulation of 21 of the 84 chargeable host tRNAs. Many of these tRNAs are used less frequently by T4 or have a counterpart encoded within the T4 genome. The MS analyses indicate that the levels of multiple T4 proteins are changed by motB overexpression. Conclusion: : Our results suggest that in this E. coli B host, motB is involved in establishing a more favorable tRNA pool for the phage during infection.
PXD027600	36197299	Comparative Photoaffinity Profiling of Omega-3 Signaling Lipid Probes Reveals Prostaglandin Reductase 1 as a Metabolic Hub in Human Macrophages. 	Activity-based protein profiling in human M2 macrophages using DHA-based photoaffinity probes	ABPP, macrophage, photoaffinity	The fish oil constituent docosahexaenoic acid (DHA, 22:6 n-3) is a signaling lipid with anti-inflammatory properties. The molecular mechanisms underlying the biological effect of DHA are poorly understood. Here, we report the design, synthesis, and application of a complementary pair of bio-orthogonal, photoreactive probes based on the polyunsaturated scaffold DHA and its oxidative metabolite 17-hydroxydocosahexaenoic acid (17-HDHA). In these probes, an alkyne serves as a handle to introduce a fluorescent reporter group or a biotin-affinity tag via copper(I)-catalyzed azide-alkyne cycloaddition. This pair of chemical probes was used to map specific targets of the omega-3 signaling lipids in primary human macrophages. Prostaglandin reductase 1 (PTGR1) was identified as an interaction partner that metabolizes 17-oxo-DHA, an oxidative metabolite of 17-HDHA. 17-oxo-DHA reduced the formation of pro-inflammatory lipids 5-HETE and LTB4 in human macrophages and neutrophils. Our results demonstrate the potential of comparative photoaffinity protein profiling for the discovery of metabolic enzymes of bioactive lipids and highlight the power of chemical proteomics to uncover new biological insights.
PXD032077	36197975	Iron regulatory protein (IRP)-mediated iron homeostasis is critical for neutrophil development and differentiation in the bone marrow. 	Impact of IRP deficiency on the proteome of Ly6G+ cells from the bone marrow in mice	granulopoiesis, hematopoiesis, iron metabolism, iron regulatory proteins, iron responsive elements., neutrophils	Iron is mostly devoted to the hemoglobinization of erythrocytes for oxygen transport. However, emerging evidence points to a broader role for the metal in hematopoiesis, including the formation of the immune system. Iron availability in mammalian cells is controlled by iron-regulatory protein 1 (IRP1) and IRP2. We report that global disruption of both IRP1 and IRP2 in adult mice impairs neutrophil development and differentiation in the bone marrow, yielding immature neutrophils with abnormally high glycolytic and autophagic activity, resulting in neutropenia. IRPs promote neutrophil differentiation in a cell intrinsic manner by securing cellular iron supply together with transcriptional control of neutropoiesis to facilitate differentiation to fully mature neutrophils. Unlike neutrophils, monocyte count was not affected by IRP and iron deficiency, suggesting a lineage-specific effect of iron on myeloid output. This study unveils the previously unrecognized importance of IRPs and iron metabolism in the formation of a major branch of the innate immune system.
PXD027597	36198307	Organ-specific metabolic pathways distinguish prediabetes, type 2 diabetes, and normal tissues. 	Organ-specific metabolic pathways distinguish prediabetes, type 2 diabetes and normal tissues	liver, pancreatic islets, serum, skeletal muscle, type 2 diabetes, visceral adipose tissue (VAT)	Environmental and genetic factors cause defects in pancreatic islets driving type 2 diabetes (T2D) together with the progression of multi-tissue insulin resistance. Mass spectrometry proteomics on samples from five key metabolic tissues of a cross-sectional cohort of 43 multi-organ donors provides deep coverage of their proteomes. Enrichment analysis of Gene Ontology terms provides a tissue-specific map of altered biological processes across healthy, prediabetes (PD), and T2D subjects. We find widespread alterations in several relevant biological pathways, including increase in hemostasis in pancreatic islets of PD, increase in the complement cascade in liver and pancreatic islets of PD, and elevation in cholesterol biosynthesis in liver of T2D. Our findings point to inflammatory, immune, and vascular alterations in pancreatic islets in PD that are hypotheses to be tested for potential contributions to hormonal perturbations such as impaired insulin and increased glucagon production. This multi-tissue proteomic map suggests tissue-specific metabolic dysregulations in T2D.
PXD036575	36198360	Aurora A-mediated pyruvate kinase M2 phosphorylation promotes biosynthesis with glycolytic metabolites and tumor cell cycle progression. 	Aurora A phosphorylates PKM2 at T45.	Aurora A, PKM2	Cancer cells have distinctive demands for intermediates from glucose metabolism for biosynthesis and energy in different cell cycle phases. However, how cell cycle regulators and glycolytic enzymes coordinate to orchestrate the essential metabolic processes are still poorly characterized. Here, we report a novel interaction between the mitotic kinase, Aurora A, and the glycolytic enzyme, pyruvate kinase M2 (PKM2), in the interphase of the cell cycle. We found Aurora A-mediated phosphorylation of PKM2 at threonine 45. This phosphorylation significantly attenuated PKM2 enzymatic activity by reducing its tetramerization and also promoted glycolytic flux and the branching anabolic pathways. Replacing the endogenous PKM2 with a nonphosphorylated PKM2 T45A mutant inhibited glycolysis, glycolytic branching pathways, and tumor growth in both in vitro and in vivo models. Together, our study revealed a new protumor function of Aurora A through modulating a rate-limiting glycolytic enzyme, PKM2, mainly during the S phase of the cell cycle. Our findings also showed that although both Aurora A and Aurora B kinase phosphorylate PKM2 at the same residue, the spatial and temporal regulations of the specific kinase and PKM2 interaction are context dependent, indicating intricate interconnectivity between cell cycle and glycolytic regulators.
PXD016676	36198694	Thermosensation in Caenorhabditis elegans is linked to ubiquitin-dependent protein turnover via insulin and calcineurin signalling. 	Thermosensation is linked to ubiquitin-dependent protein turnover via insulin and calcineurin signalling	Ciliated Neurons, Insulin signaling, Proteostasis, Ubiquitin, ageing, aggregation, calcineurin signaling	Organismal physiology and survival are influenced by environmental conditions and linked to protein quality control. Proteome integrity is achieved by maintaining an intricate balance between protein folding and degradation. In Caenorhabditis elegans, acute heat stress determines cell non-autonomous regulation of chaperone levels. However, how the perception of environmental changes, including physiological temperature, affects protein degradation remains largely unexplored. Here, we show that loss-of-function of dyf-1 in Caenorhabditis elegans associated with dysfunctional sensory neurons leads to defects in both temperature perception and thermal adaptation of the ubiquitin/proteasome system centered on thermosensory AFD neurons. Impaired perception of moderate temperature changes worsens ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis in intestinal cells. Brain-gut communication regulating protein turnover is mediated by upregulation of the insulin-like peptide INS-5 and inhibition of the calcineurin-regulated forkhead-box transcription factor DAF-16/FOXO. Our data indicate that perception of ambient temperature and its neuronal integration is important for the control of proteome integrity in complex organisms.
PXD024961	36199173	SIRT3 deficiency decreases oxidative metabolism capacity but increases lifespan in male mice under caloric restriction. 	Deficiency in Sirtuin3 rewires mitochondrial metabolism and increases maximum lifespan under caloric restriction - Mitochondrial Acetylation Stoichiometry	Acetylation, Aging, Caloric Restriction, Metabolism, Mitochondria, Sirt3, Sirtuins, Stoichiometry	Mitochondrial NAD(+) -dependent protein deacetylase Sirtuin3 (SIRT3) has been proposed to mediate calorie restriction (CR)-dependent metabolic regulation and lifespan extension. Here, we investigated the role of SIRT3 in CR-mediated longevity, mitochondrial function, and aerobic fitness. We report that SIRT3 is required for whole-body aerobic capacity but is dispensable for CR-dependent lifespan extension. Under CR, loss of SIRT3 (Sirt3(-/-) ) yielded a longer overall and maximum lifespan as compared to Sirt3(+/+) mice. This unexpected lifespan extension was associated with altered mitochondrial protein acetylation in oxidative metabolic pathways, reduced mitochondrial respiration, and reduced aerobic exercise capacity. Also, Sirt3(-/-) CR mice exhibit lower spontaneous activity and a trend favoring fatty acid oxidation during the postprandial period. This study shows the uncoupling of lifespan and healthspan parameters (aerobic fitness and spontaneous activity) and provides new insights into SIRT3 function in CR adaptation, fuel utilization, and aging.
PXD033699	36200834	The novel type II toxin-antitoxin PacTA modulates Pseudomonas aeruginosa iron homeostasis by obstructing the DNA-binding activity of Fur. 	The novel type II toxin-antitoxin PacTA modulates Pseudomonas aeruginosa iron homeostasis by obstructing the DNA-binding activity of Fur	DNA-binding activity, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Type II toxin-antitoxin systems, iron homeostasis	Type II toxin-antitoxin (TA) systems are widely distributed in bacterial and archaeal genomes and are involved in diverse critical cellular functions such as defense against phages, biofilm formation, persistence, and virulence. GCN5-related N-acetyltransferase (GNAT) toxin, with an acetyltransferase activity-dependent mechanism of translation inhibition, represents a relatively new and expanding family of type II TA toxins. We here describe a group of GNAT-Xre TA modules widely distributed among Pseudomonas species. We investigated PacTA (one of its members encoded by PA3270/PA3269) from Pseudomonas aeruginosa and demonstrated that the PacT toxin positively regulates iron acquisition in P. aeruginosa. Notably, other than arresting translation through acetylating aminoacyl-tRNAs, PacT can directly bind to Fur, a key ferric uptake regulator, to attenuate its DNA-binding affinity and thus permit the expression of downstream iron-acquisition-related genes. We further showed that the expression of the pacTA locus is upregulated in response to iron starvation and the absence of PacT causes biofilm formation defect, thereby attenuating pathogenesis. Overall, these findings reveal a novel regulatory mechanism of GNAT toxin that controls iron-uptake-related genes and contributes to bacterial virulence.
PXD033518	36201626	In vivo stress reporters as early biomarkers of the cellular changes associated with progeria. 	In vivo stress reporters as early biomarkers of the cellular changes associated with progeria	Accelerated Ageing, Early biomarker, Preclinical model, Progeria, Stress pathways	Age-related diseases account for a high proportion of the total global burden of disease. Despite recent advances in understanding their molecular basis, there is a lack of suitable early biomarkers to test selected compounds and accelerate their translation to clinical trials. We have investigated the utility of in vivo stress reporter systems as surrogate early biomarkers of the degenerative disease progression. We hypothesized that cellular stress observed in models of human degenerative disease preceded overt cellular damage and at the same time will identify potential cytoprotective pathways. To test this hypothesis, we generated novel accelerated ageing (progeria) reporter mice by crossing the LmnaG609G mice into our oxidative stress/inflammation (Hmox1) and DNA damage (p21) stress reporter models. Histological analysis of reporter expression demonstrated a time-dependent and tissue-specific activation of the reporters in tissues directly associated with Progeria, including smooth muscle cells, the vasculature and gastrointestinal tract. Importantly, reporter expression was detected prior to any perceptible deleterious phenotype. Reporter expression can therefore be used as an early marker of progeria pathogenesis and to test therapeutic interventions. This work also demonstrates the potential to use stress reporter approaches to study and find new treatments for other degenerative diseases.
PXD033503	36202792	Inhibition of mTOR signaling protects human glioma cells from hypoxia-induced cell death in an autophagy-independent manner. 	Inhibition of mTOR signaling protects human glioma-cells from starvation-induced cell death in an autophagy-independent manner	Autophagy, Glioma, mTOR	Although malignant gliomas frequently show aberrant activation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR), mTOR inhibitors have performed poorly in clinical trials. Besides regulating cell growth and translation, mTOR controls the initiation of autophagy. By recycling cellular components, autophagy can mobilize energy resources, and has thus been attributed cancer-promoting effects. Here, we asked whether the activation of autophagy represents an escape mechanism to pharmacological mTOR inhibition in glioma cells, and explored co-treatment with mTOR and autophagy inhibitors as a therapeutic strategy. Mimicking conditions of the glioma microenvironment, glioma cells were exposed to nutrient starvation and hypoxia. We analyzed autophagic activity, cell growth, viability and oxygen consumption following (co-)treatment with the mTOR inhibitors torin2 or rapamycin, and autophagy inhibitors bafilomycin A1 or MRT68921. Changes in global proteome were quantified by mass spectrometry. In the context of hypoxia and starvation, autophagy was strongly induced in glioma cells and further increased by mTOR inhibition. While torin2 enhanced glioma cell survival, co-treatment with torin2 and bafilomycin A1 failed to promote cell death. Importantly, treatment with bafilomycin A1 alone also protected glioma cells from cell death. Mechanistically, both compounds significantly reduced cell growth and oxygen consumption. Quantitative proteomics analysis showed that bafilomycin A1 induced broad changes in the cellular proteome. More specifically, proteins downregulated by bafilomycin A1 were associated with the mitochondrial respiratory chain and ATP synthesis. Taken together, our results show that activation of autophagy does not account for the cytoprotective effects of mTOR inhibition in our in vitro model of the glioma microenvironment. Our proteomic findings suggest that the pharmacological inhibition of autophagy induces extensive changes in the cellular proteome that can support glioma cell survival under nutrient-deplete and hypoxic conditions. These findings provide a novel perspective on the complex role of autophagy in gliomas.
PXD031176	36202810	A pathway for chitin oxidation in marine bacteria. 	the secretome of Pseudoalteromonas prydzensis ACAM 620	Pseudoalteromonas prydzensis, chitin degradation, secretome	Oxidative degradation of chitin, initiated by lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases (LPMOs), contributes to microbial bioconversion of crystalline chitin, the second most abundant biopolymer in nature. However, our knowledge of oxidative chitin utilization pathways, beyond LPMOs, is very limited. Here, we describe a complete pathway for oxidative chitin degradation and its regulation in a marine bacterium, Pseudoalteromonas prydzensis. The pathway starts with LPMO-mediated extracellular breakdown of chitin into C1-oxidized chitooligosaccharides, which carry a terminal 2-(acetylamino)-2-deoxy-D-gluconic acid (GlcNAc1A). Transmembrane transport of oxidized chitooligosaccharides is followed by their hydrolysis in the periplasm, releasing GlcNAc1A, which is catabolized in the cytoplasm. This pathway differs from the known hydrolytic chitin utilization pathway in enzymes, transporters and regulators. In particular, GlcNAc1A is converted to 2-keto-3-deoxygluconate 6-phosphate, acetate and NH3 via a series of reactions resembling the degradation of D-amino acids rather than other monosaccharides. Furthermore, genomic and metagenomic analyses suggest that the chitin oxidative utilization pathway may be prevalent in marine Gammaproteobacteria.
PXD017448	36203013	Post-translational modifications reshape the antigenic landscape of the MHC I immunopeptidome in tumors. 	Immunopeptidome on MC38 Cell line	Immunopeptidome, PTM	Post-translational modification (PTM) of antigens provides an additional source of specificities targeted by immune responses to tumors or pathogens, but identifying antigen PTMs and assessing their role in shaping the immunopeptidome is challenging. Here we describe the Protein Modification Integrated Search Engine (PROMISE), an antigen discovery pipeline that enables the analysis of 29 different PTM combinations from multiple clinical cohorts and cell lines. We expanded the antigen landscape, uncovering human leukocyte antigen class I binding motifs defined by specific PTMs with haplotype-specific binding preferences and revealing disease-specific modified targets, including thousands of new cancer-specific antigens that can be shared between patients and across cancer types. Furthermore, we uncovered a subset of modified peptides that are specific to cancer tissue and driven by post-translational changes that occurred in the tumor proteome. Our findings highlight principles of PTM-driven antigenicity, which may have broad implications for T cell-mediated therapies in cancer and beyond.
PXD035883	36203576	Human chorionic gonadotropin promotes murine Treg cells and restricts pregnancy-harmful proinflammatory Th17 responses. 	Human chorionic gonadotropin promotes murine Treg cells and restricts pregnancy-harmful proinflammatory Th17 responses - proteomics data	LFQ, TH17 cells, Treg cells, fetus, hCG	An equilibrium between proinflammatory and anti-inflammatory immune responses is essential for maternal tolerance of the fetus throughout gestation. To study the participation of fetal tissue-derived factors in this delicate immune balance, we analyzed the effects of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) on murine Treg cells and Th17 cells in vitro, and on pregnancy outcomes, fetal and placental growth, blood flow velocities and remodeling of the uterine vascular bed in vivo. Compared with untreated CD4(+)CD25(+) T cells, hCG increased the frequency of Treg cells upon activation of the LH/CG receptor. hCG, with the involvement of IL-2, also interfered with induced differentiation of CD4(+) T cells into proinflammatory Th17 cells. In already differentiated Th17 cells, hCG induced an anti-inflammatory profile. Transfer of proinflammatory Th17 cells into healthy pregnant mice promoted fetal rejection, impaired fetal growth and resulted in insufficient remodeling of uterine spiral arteries, and abnormal flow velocities. Our works show that proinflammatory Th17 cells have a negative influence on pregnancy that can be partly avoided by in vitro re-programming of proinflammatory Th17 cells with hCG.
PXD033549	36203755	Endothelial senescence mediates hypoxia-induced vascular remodeling by modulating PDGFB expression. 	Endothelial senescence mediates hypoxia-induced vascular remodeling by modulating PDGFB expression	PDGFB, TWIST1, endothelial cell, hypoxia, pulmonary hypertension, senescence	Uncontrolled accumulation of pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs) to the distal pulmonary arterioles (PAs) is one of the major characteristics of pulmonary hypertension (PH). Cellular senescence contributes to aging and lung diseases associated with PH and links to PH progression. However, the mechanism by which cellular senescence controls vascular remodeling in PH is not fully understood. The levels of senescence marker, p16(INK4A) and senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) activity are higher in PA endothelial cells (ECs) isolated from idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) patients compared to those from healthy individuals. Hypoxia-induced accumulation of alpha-smooth muscle actin (alphaSMA)-positive cells to the PAs is attenuated in p16 fl/fl -Cdh5(PAC)-Cre ERT2 (p16 iDeltaEC ) mice after tamoxifen induction. We have reported that endothelial TWIST1 mediates hypoxia-induced vascular remodeling by increasing platelet-derived growth factor (PDGFB) expression. Transcriptomic analyses of IPAH patient lungs or hypoxia-induced mouse lung ECs reveal the alteration of senescence-related gene expression and their interaction with TWIST1. Knockdown of p16(INK4A) attenuates the expression of PDGFB and TWIST1 in IPAH patient PAECs or hypoxia-treated mouse lungs and suppresses accumulation of alphaSMA-positive cells to the supplemented ECs in the gel implanted on the mouse lungs. Hypoxia-treated mouse lung EC-derived exosomes stimulate DNA synthesis and migration of PASMCs in vitro and in the gel implanted on the mouse lungs, while p16 iDeltaEC mouse lung EC-derived exosomes inhibit the effects. These results suggest that endothelial senescence modulates TWIST1-PDGFB signaling and controls vascular remodeling in PH.
PXD027099	36204290	Differential proteomic of plasma provides a new perspective on scientific diagnosis and drug screening for dampness heat diarrhea in calves. 	plasma proteomic profiling reveals Dampness Heat Diarrhea mechanisms in calves	calves, dampness heat diarrhea, data-independent acquisition	Dampness heat diarrhea (DHD) is one of the most common syndromes of calf diarrhea. Its complex etiology and lack of objective diagnostic criteria bring great challenges to the diagnosis and treatment of this disease. This study aims to screen some prospective diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic targets for calves with DHD by investigating the differential protein profiles of plasma between DHD calves and clinically healthy calves by mass spectrometry-based proteomic. A total of 120 DHD calves and 90 clinically healthy calves were divided into two groups randomly, 30 DHD calves and 30 clinically healthy calves in the test group, and 90 DHD calves and 60 clinically healthy calves in the validation group. In the test group, a total of 52 proteins were differentially expressed between calves with DHD and clinically healthy calves, 13 proteins were significantly increased and 39 proteins were significantly decreased. The differentially expressed proteins were associated with the intestinal immune network of IgA production, caffeine metabolism, purine metabolism, and PI3K signaling pathway. In the validation group, 13 proteins were selected from 52 differential expression proteins for parallel reaction monitoring validation to verify their associations with DHD calves. The targeted proteomic results showed that fibronectin precursor (FN1) and apolipoprotein C-IV precursor (APOC4) were significantly associated with DHD in calves, and they were downregulated in sick calves. In conclusion, the differential expression of plasma proteins was associated with DHD pathogenesis in calves, and the FN1 and APOC4 might be the potential clinical biomarkers for diagnosis of DHD in calves, and the intestinal immune network of IgA production, caffeine metabolism, purine metabolism, and PI3K signaling pathway are the candidate targets to treat DHD in calves. Our finding provides a reference for further investigating the pathogenesis, developing techniques of diagnosis, and screening treatment drugs for DHD in calves.
PXD026047	36204637	Metabolomics and proteomics analyses revealed mechanistic insights on the antimicrobial activity of epigallocatechin gallate against Streptococcus suis. 	Streptococcus suis, LC-MSMS, EGCG	LC-MSMS,EGCG, Streptococcus suis	Streptococcus suis (S. suis) is a highly virulent zoonotic pathogen and causes severe economic losses to the swine industry worldwide. Public health security is also threatened by the rapidly growing antimicrobial resistance in S. suis. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop new and safe antibacterial alternatives against S. suis. The green tea polyphenol epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) with a number of potential health benefits is known for its antibacterial effect; however, the mechanism of its bactericidal action remains unclear. In the present, EGCG at minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) showed significant inhibitory effects on S. suis growth, hemolytic activity, and biofilm formation, and caused damage to S. suis cells in vitro. EGCG also reduced S. suis pathogenicity in Galleria mellonella larvae in vivo. Metabolomics and proteomics analyses were performed to investigate the underlying mechanism of antibacterial activity of EGCG at MIC. Many differentially expressed proteins involved in DNA replication, synthesis of cell wall, and cell membrane, and virulence were down-regulated after the treatment of S. suis with EGCG. EGCG not only significantly reduced the hemolytic activity of S. suis but also down-regulated the expression of suilysin (Sly). The top three shared KEGG pathways between metabolomics and proteomics analysis were ABC transporters, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, and aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis. Taken together, these data suggest that EGCG could be a potential phytochemical compound for treating S. suis infection.
PXD018747	36205399	Unbiased proteomic and forward genetic screens reveal that mechanosensitive ion channel MSL10 functions at ER-plasma membrane contact sites in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Genetic and proteomic screens suggest that signaling by the mechanosensitive ion channel MSL10 is influenced by its association with a synaptotagmin complex	Interacting proteins, Mechanosensitive Channels	Mechanosensitive (MS) ion channels are an evolutionarily conserved way for cells to sense mechanical forces and transduce them into ionic signals. The channel properties of Arabidopsis thaliana MscS-Like (MSL)10 have been well studied, but how MSL10 signals remains largely unknown. To uncover signaling partners of MSL10, we employed a proteomic screen and a forward genetic screen; both unexpectedly implicated endoplasmic reticulum-plasma membrane contact sites (EPCSs) in MSL10 function. The proteomic screen revealed that MSL10 associates with multiple proteins associated with EPCSs. Of these, only VAMP-associated proteins (VAP)27-1 and VAP27-3 interacted directly with MSL10. The forward genetic screen, for suppressors of a gain-of-function MSL10 allele (msl10-3G, MSL10(S640L)), identified mutations in the synaptotagmin (SYT)5 and SYT7 genes. We also found that EPCSs were expanded in leaves of msl10-3G plants compared to the wild type. Taken together, these results indicate that MSL10 associates and functions with EPCS proteins, providing a new cell-level framework for understanding MSL10 signaling. In addition, placing a mechanosensory protein at EPCSs provides new insight into the function and regulation of this type of subcellular compartment.
PXD043763	36206710	Fate and PPARgamma and STATs-driven effects of the mitochondrial complex I inhibitor tebufenpyrad in liver cells revealed with multi-omics. 	Determination of the mechanisms of hepatotoxicity induced by chlordecone and chlordecol from primary human hepatocytes cells and proteomic analyzes	chlordecol, chlordecone, kepone, liver, metabolism, metabolomics, mitochondrion, multi-omics, pesticide, septins, toxicology	The biological effects of the pesticide and mitochondrial complex I inhibitor tebufenpyrad (TEBU) on liver cells were investigated by combining proteomics and metabolomics. Both cell culture media and cellular lysates were analyzed in dose-response and kinetic experiments on the HepaRG cell line. Responses were compared with those obtained on primary human and rat hepatocytes. A multitude of phase I and II metabolites (>80) mainly common to HepaRG cells and primary hepatocytes and an increase in metabolization enzymes were observed. Synthesis of mitochondrion and oxidative phosphorylation complex constituents, fatty acid oxidation, and cellular uptake of lipids were induced to compensate for complex I inhibition and the decrease in ATP intracellular contents caused by TEBU. Secretion of the 20 S circulating proteasome and overall inhibition of acute inflammation followed by IL-6 secretion in later stages were observed in HepaRG cells. These effects were associated with a decrease in STAT1 and STAT3 transcription factor abundances, but with different kinetics. Based on identified TEBU targets, docking experiments, and nuclear receptor reporter assays, we concluded that liver cell response to TEBU is mediated by its interaction with the PPARgamma transcription factor.
PXD036632	36209277	Integrative analysis of KRAS wildtype metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma reveals mutation and expression-based similarities to cholangiocarcinoma. 	Integrative analysis of KRAS wildtype metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma reveals mutation and expression-based similarities to cholangiocarcinoma	pancreatic adenocarcinoma, tmt	Oncogenic KRAS mutations are absent in approximately 10% of patients with metastatic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (mPDAC) and may represent a subgroup of mPDAC with therapeutic options beyond standard-of-care cytotoxic chemotherapy. While distinct gene fusions have been implicated in KRAS wildtype mPDAC, information regarding other types of mutations remain limited, and gene expression patterns associated with KRAS wildtype mPDAC have not been reported. Here, we leverage sequencing data from the PanGen trial to perform comprehensive characterization of the molecular landscape of KRAS wildtype mPDAC and reveal increased frequency of chr1q amplification encompassing transcription factors PROX1 and NR5A2. By leveraging data from colorectal adenocarcinoma and cholangiocarcinoma samples, we highlight similarities between cholangiocarcinoma and KRAS wildtype mPDAC involving both mutation and expression-based signatures and validate these findings using an independent dataset. These data further establish KRAS wildtype mPDAC as a unique molecular entity, with therapeutic opportunities extending beyond gene fusion events.
PXD033168	36209425	Subtyping of cardiac amyloidosis by mass spectrometry-based proteomics of endomyocardial biopsies. 	Subtyping of cardiac amyloidosis by mass spectrometry-based proteomics of endomyocardial biopsies	cardiac amyloidosis, endomyocardial biopsies, subtyping	BACKGROUND: Cardiac amyloidosis is a severe condition leading to restrictive cardiomyopathy and heart failure. Mass spectrometry-based methods for cardiac amyloid subtyping have become important diagnostic tools but are currently used only in a few reference laboratories. Such methods include laser-capture microdissection to ensure the specific analysis of amyloid deposits. Here we introduce a direct proteomics-based method for subtyping of cardiac amyloidosis. METHODS: Endomyocardial biopsies were retrospectively analysed from fresh frozen material of 78 patients with cardiac amyloidosis and from 12 biopsies of unused donor heart explants. Cryostat sections were digested with trypsin and analysed with liquid chromatography - mass spectrometry, and data were evaluated by proteomic software. RESULTS: With a diagnostic threshold set to 70% for each of the four most common amyloid proteins affecting the heart (LC kappa, LC lambda, TTR and SAA), 65 of the cases (87%) could be diagnosed, and of these, 61 cases (94%) were in concordance with the original diagnoses. The specimens were also analysed for the summed intensities of the amyloid signature proteins (ApoE, ApoA-IV and SAP). The intensities were significantly higher (p < 0.001) for all assigned cases compared with controls. CONCLUSION: Cardiac amyloidosis can be successfully subtyped without the prior enrichment of amyloid deposits with laser microdissection.
PXD033880	36210010	Probing the sORF-Encoded Peptides of Deinococcus radiodurans in Response to Extreme Stress. 	The identification and analysis of sORF and SEPs in Deinococcus radiodurans	Deinococcus radiodurans, LC-MS, SEPs, sORF	Organisms have developed different mechanisms to respond to stresses. However, the roles of small ORF-encoded peptides (SEPs) in these regulatory systems remain elusive, which is partially because of the lack of comprehensive knowledge regarding these biomolecules. We chose the extremophile Deinococcus radiodurans R1 as a model species and conducted large-scale profiling of the SEPs related to the stress response. The integrated workflow consisting of multiple omics approaches for SEP identification was streamlined, and an SEPome of D. radiodurans containing 109 novel and high-confidence SEPs was drafted. Forty-four percent of these SEPs were predicted to function as antimicrobial peptides. Quantitative peptidomics analysis indicated that the expression of SEP068184 was upregulated upon oxidative treatment and gamma irradiation of the bacteria. SEP068184 was conserved in Deinococcus and exhibited negative regulation of oxidative stress resistance in a comparative phenotypic assay of its mutants. Further quantitative and interactive proteomics analyses suggested that SEP068184 might function through metabolic pathways and interact with cytoplasmic proteins. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that SEPs are involved in the regulation of oxidative resistance, and the SEPome dataset provides a rich resource for research on the molecular mechanisms of the response to extreme stress in organisms.
PXD031966	36210013	Proteomic identification of MHC class I-associated peptidome derived from non-obese diabetic mouse thymus and pancreas. 	Proteomic identification of MHC class I-associated peptidome derived from non-obese diabetic mouse thymus and pancreas	CD8+ T-cell., LC-MS/ MS, MHC class I-associated peptidome, NOD mouse, T1D, pancreas, thymus	The peptides repertoire presented to CD8(+) T cells by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules is referred to as the MHC I-associated peptidome (MIP), which regulates thymus development, peripheral survival and function during lifetime of CD8(+) T cells. Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an organ-specific autoimmune disease caused by pancreatic beta cells destruction mediated primarily by autoreactive CD8(+) T cells. Non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse is an important animal model of T1D. Here, we deeply analyzed the MIP derived from NOD mice thymus and pancreas, and demonstrated that the thymus MIP source proteins partially shared with the MIP source proteins derived from NOD mice pancreas and beta cell line. One H-2Kd restricted peptide SLC35B126-34 which was shared by MIP derived from both NOD mice pancreatic tissues and islet beta-cell line, but absent in MIP from NOD thymus tissues, showed ability to stimulate IFN-gamma secretion and proliferation of NOD mice splenic CD8(+) T cells. The global view of the MHC I-associated self-peptides repertoire in the thymus and pancreas of NOD mice may serve as a biological reference to identify potential autoantigens targeted by autoreactive CD8(+) T cells in T1D. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD031966. SIGNIFICANCE: The peptides repertoire presented to CD8(+) T cells by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules is referred to as the MHC I-associated peptidome (MIP). The MIP presented by thymic antigen presenting cells (APCs) is crucial for shaping CD8(+) T cell repertoire and self-tolerance, while the MIP presented by peripheral tissues and organs is not only involved in maintaining periphery CD8(+) T cell survival and homeostasis, but also mediates immune surveillance and autoimmune responses of CD8(+) T cells under pathological conditions. Type 1 diabetes (T1D) is an organ-specific autoimmune disease caused by the destruction of pancreatic beta cells, mediated primarily by autoreactive CD8(+) T cells. Non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse is one of important animal models of spontaneous autoimmune diabetes that shares several key features with human T1D. The global view of the MHC I-associated self-peptides repertoire in the thymus and pancreas of NOD mice may serve as a good biological reference to identify potential autoantigens targeted by autoreactive CD8(+) T cells in T1D. It has great significance for further clarifying the immune recognition and effect mechanism of autoreactive CD8(+) T cells in the pathogenesis of T1D, and then developing antigen-specific immune intervention strategies.
PXD021449	36212119	Multiomic analysis revealed the regulatory role of the KRT14 gene in eggshell quality. 	Proteome sequencing of uterus at different eggshell strenghten and thickness of hens	Eggshell stengthen and thickness	Background: Eggshell strength and thickness are critical factors in reducing the egg breaking rate and preventing economic losses. The calcite biomineralization process is very important for eggshell quality. Therefore, we employed transcriptional sequencing and proteomics to investigate the differences between the uteruses of laying hens with high- and low-breaking-strength shells. Results: A total of 1,028 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 270 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified. The analysis results of GO terms and KEGG pathways showed that most of the DEGs and DEPs were enriched in vital pathways related to processes such as calcium metabolism, hormone and amino acid biosynthesis, and cell proliferation and apoptosis. Several DEGs and DEPs that were coexpressed at mRNA and protein levels were verified. KRT14 (keratin-14) is a candidate gene (protein) obtained by multiple omics analysis due to the fold difference of KRT14 being the largest. After the overexpression of KRT14 in uterine epithelial cells, the expressions of OC116 (ovocleididin-116), CALB1 (calbindin 1), and BST1 (ADP-ribosyl cyclase 2) were found to be increased significantly, while the expression of OC17 (ovocleididin-17) was found to be decreased significantly. Conclusion: In summary, this study confirms that during normal calcification, there are differences in ion transport between the uterus of hens producing high-breaking-strength eggshells and those producing low-breaking-strength eggshells, which may help elucidate the eggshell calcification process. The KRT14 gene may promote calcium metabolism and deposition of calcium carbonate in eggshells.
PXD036685	36212123	Identification of the key proteins associated with different hair types in sheep and goats. 	Identification of the Key Protein Associated with Different Hair Types in Sheep and Goat	KRT, KRTAP, cashmere, sheep	Animal-derived fiber has the characteristics of being light, soft, strong, elastic and a good thermal insulator, and it is widely used in many industries and traditional products, so it plays an important role in the economy of some countries. Variations in phenotypes of wool fibers among different species and breeds are important for industry. We found that the mean fiber diameter of cashmere was significantly smaller than that of sheep wool (p < 0.01), and sheep wool was significantly smaller than goat wool (p < 0.01). Compared with traditional proteomics technology, we analyzed cashmere, guard hair, and wool by Laber-free proteomics technology and detected 159, 204, and 70 proteins, respectively. Through the sequential windowed acquisition of all theoretical fragmentations (SWATH), 41 and 54 differentially expressed proteins were successfully detected in the cashmere vs. wool group and guard hair vs. wool group. Protein-protein interaction network analysis of differentially expressed proteins revealed many strong interactions related to KRT85, KRTAP15-1 and KRTAP3-1. The final analysis showed that the proportion of KRT85, KRTAP15-1 and KRTAP3-1 might be the key to the difference in fiber diameter and could be used as a potential molecular marker for distinguishing different fiber types.
PXD037413	36212541	Ligand binding and conformational dynamics of the E. coli nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase revealed by hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry. 	Ligand binding and conformational dynamics of the E. coli nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenase revealed by hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry	Cyclic IMSâ€‘MS, HDX-MS, Membrane Protein, channel opening, small ligand binding	Nicotinamide nucleotide transhydrogenases are integral membrane proteins that utilizes the proton motive force to reduce NADP(+) to NADPH while converting NADH to NAD(+). Atomic structures of various transhydrogenases in different ligand-bound states have become available, and it is clear that the molecular mechanism involves major conformational changes. Here we utilized hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) to map ligand binding sites and analyzed the structural dynamics of E. coli transhydrogenase. We found different allosteric effects on the protein depending on the bound ligand (NAD(+), NADH, NADP(+), NADPH). The binding of either NADP(+) or NADPH to domain III had pronounced effects on the transmembrane helices comprising the proton-conducting channel in domain II. We also made use of cyclic ion mobility separation mass spectrometry (cyclic IMS-MS) to maximize coverage and sensitivity in the transmembrane domain, showing for the first time that this technique can be used for HDX-MS studies. Using cyclic IMS-MS, we increased sequence coverage from 68 % to 73 % in the transmembrane segments. Taken together, our results provide important new insights into the transhydrogenase reaction cycle and demonstrate the benefit of this new technique for HDX-MS to study ligand binding and conformational dynamics in membrane proteins.
PXD032757	36213127	The role of extracellular vesicle miRNAs and tRNAs in synovial fibroblast senescence. 	The role of extracellular vesicles in synovial fibroblast senescence	Extracellular Vesicles, Synovial Fibroblasts	Extracellular vesicles are mediators of intercellular communication with critical roles in cellular senescence and ageing. In arthritis, senescence is linked to the activation of a pro-inflammatory phenotype contributing to chronic arthritis pathogenesis. We hypothesised that senescent osteoarthritic synovial fibroblasts induce senescence and a pro-inflammatory phenotype in non-senescent osteoarthritic fibroblasts, mediated through extracellular vesicle cargo. Small RNA-sequencing and mass spectrometry proteomics were performed on extracellular vesicles isolated from the secretome of non-senescent and irradiation-induced senescent synovial fibroblasts. beta-galactosidase staining confirmed senescence in SFs. RNA sequencing identified 17 differentially expressed miRNAs, 11 lncRNAs, 14 tRNAs and one snoRNA and, 21 differentially abundant proteins were identified by mass spectrometry. Bioinformatics analysis of miRNAs identified fibrosis, cell proliferation, autophagy, and cell cycle as significant pathways, tRNA analysis was enriched for signaling pathways including FGF, PI3K/AKT and MAPK, whilst protein analysis identified PAX3-FOXO1, MYC and TFGB1 as enriched upstream regulators involved in senescence and cell cycle arrest. Finally, treatment of non-senescent synovial fibroblasts with senescent extracellular vesicles confirmed the bystander effect, inducing senescence in non-senescent cells potentially through down regulation of NF-kappabeta and cAMP response element signaling pathways thus supporting our hypothesis. Understanding the exact composition of EV-derived small RNAs of senescent cells in this way will inform our understanding of their roles in inflammation, intercellular communication, and as active molecules in the senescence bystander effect.
PXD029400	36213313	Mass spectrometric analysis of chondroitin sulfate-linked peptides. 	Mass spectrometric analysis of chondroitin sulfate-linked peptides	Glycoproteomics (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), chondroitin-sulfate linked peptides, fibroblasts, plasma, proteoglycans, urine	Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) are extracellular matrix components composed of linear glycosaminoglycan (GAG) side chains attached to a core protein. CSPGs play a vital role in neurodevelopment, signal transduction, cellular proliferation and differentiation and tumor metastasis through interaction with growth factors and signaling proteins. These pleiotropic functions of proteoglycans are regulated spatiotemporally by the GAG chains attached to the core protein. There are over 70 chondroitin sulfate-linked proteoglycans reported in cells, cerebrospinal fluid and urine. A core glycan linker of 3-6 monosaccharides attached to specific serine residues can be extended by 20-200 disaccharide repeating units making intact CSPGs very large and impractical to analyze. The current paradigm of CSPG analysis involves digesting the GAG chains by chondroitinase enzymes and analyzing either the protein part, the disaccharide repeats, or both by mass spectrometry. This method, however, provides no information about the site of attachment or the composition of linker oligosaccharides and the degree of sulfation and/or phosphorylation. Further, the analysis by mass spectrometry and subsequent identification of novel CSPGs is hampered by technical challenges in their isolation, less optimal ionization and data analysis. Unknown identity of the linker oligosaccharide also makes it more difficult to identify the glycan composition using database searching approaches. Following chondroitinase digestion of long GAG chains linked to tryptic peptides, we identified intact GAG-linked peptides in clinically relevant samples including plasma, urine and dermal fibroblasts. These intact glycopeptides including their core linker glycans were identified by mass spectrometry using optimized stepped higher energy collision dissociation and electron-transfer/higher energy collision dissociation combined with hybrid database search/de novo glycan composition search. We identified 25 CSPGs including three novel CSPGs that have not been described earlier. Our findings demonstrate the utility of combining enrichment strategies and optimized high-resolution mass spectrometry analysis including alternative fragmentation methods for the characterization of CSPGs. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s42485-022-00092-3.
PXD035689	36215696	A rare human centenarian variant of SIRT6 enhances genome stability and interaction with Lamin A. 	A rare human centenarian variant of SIRT6 enhances genome stability and interaction with Lamin A	ADP-ribosylation, LMNA, SIRT6, aging, centenarian, longevity	Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a deacylase and mono-ADP ribosyl transferase (mADPr) enzyme involved in multiple cellular pathways implicated in aging and metabolism regulation. Targeted sequencing of SIRT6 locus in a population of 450 Ashkenazi Jewish (AJ) centenarians and 550 AJ individuals without a family history of exceptional longevity identified enrichment of a SIRT6 allele containing two linked substitutions (N308K/A313S) in centenarians compared with AJ control individuals. Characterization of this SIRT6 allele (centSIRT6) demonstrated it to be a stronger suppressor of LINE1 retrotransposons, confer enhanced stimulation of DNA double-strand break repair, and more robustly kill cancer cells compared with wild-type SIRT6. Surprisingly, centSIRT6 displayed weaker deacetylase activity, but stronger mADPr activity, over a range of NAD(+) concentrations and substrates. Additionally, centSIRT6 displayed a stronger interaction with Lamin A/C (LMNA), which was correlated with enhanced ribosylation of LMNA. Our results suggest that enhanced SIRT6 function contributes to human longevity by improving genome maintenance via increased mADPr activity and enhanced interaction with LMNA.
PXD022700	36216028	Protein Lactylation and Metabolic Regulation of the Zoonotic Parasite Toxoplasma gondii. 	Toxoplasma gondii; protein posttranslational modification; lactylation; metabolism; function	Toxoplasma gondii	The biology of Toxoplasma gondii, the causative pathogen of one of the most widespread parasitic diseases (toxoplasmosis), remains poorly understood. Lactate, which is derived glucose metabolism, is not only an energy source in a variety of organisms, including T. gondii, but also a regulatory molecule that participates in gene activation and protein function. Lysine lactylation (Kla) is a type of posttranslational modification (PTM) that has been recently associated with chromatin remodeling; however, Kla of histone and non-histone proteins has not yet been studied in T. gondii. To examine the prevalence and function of lactylation in T. gondii parasites, we mapped thelactylome of proliferating tachyzoite cells and identified 1964 lactylation sites on 955 proteins in the T. gondii RH strain. Lactylated proteins are distributed in multiple subcellular compartments and are closely related to a wide variety of biological processes, including mRNA splicing, glycolysis, aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis, RNA transport, and many signaling pathways. We also performed a chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) analysis using a lactylation-specific antibody and found that the histones H4K12la and H3K14la were enriched in the promoter and exon regions of T. gondii associated with microtubule-based movement and cell invasion. We further confirmed the delactylase activity of histone deacetylases TgHDACs 2, 3, and 4, and found that treatment with anti-histone acetyltransferase (TgMYST-A) antibodies profoundly reduced protein lactylation in T. gondii. This study offers the first dataset of the global lactylation proteome and provides a basis for further dissecting the functional biology of T. gondii.
PXD033814	36216870	Integrated Omics analysis of pig muscle metabolism under the effects of dietary Chlorella vulgaris and exogenous enzymes. 	Influence of a high dietary level of the microalgae Chlorella vulgaris alone and combined with exogenous carbohydrases on muscle transcriptome and proteome of finishing pigs: an integrated approach	CAZymes, Chlorella vulgaris, antioxidant potential, fatty acid metabolism, finishing pigs, muscle proteome, muscle transcriptome	Monogastric feeding is dependent on costly conventional feedstuffs. Microalgae such as Chlorella vulgaris are a sustainable alternative; however, its recalcitrant cell wall hinders monogastric digestion. Carbohydrate Active Enzyme (CAZyme) supplementation is a possible solution. The objective of this work was to evaluate the effect of 5% dietary C. vulgaris (CV) and enzymatic supplementation (CV + R-Rovabio(R) Excel AP; CV + M-four CAZyme mix) on muscle transcriptome and proteome of finishing pigs, in an integrated approach. Control pigs increased the abundance of contractile apparatus (MYH1, MYH2, MYH4) and energy metabolism (CKMT1, NDUFS3) proteins, demonstrating increased nutrient availability. They had increased expression of SCD, characteristic of increased glucose availability, via the activation of SREBP-1c and ChREBP. CV and CV + R pigs upregulated proteolytic and apoptotic genes (BAX, DDA1), whilst increasing the abundance of glucose (UQCRFS1) and fatty acid catabolism (ACADS) proteins. CV + R pigs upregulated ACOT8 and SIRT3 genes as a response to reduced nutrient availability, maintaining energy homeostasis. The cell wall specific CAZyme mix, CV + M, was able to comparatively reduce Omics alterations in the muscle, thereby reducing endogenous nutrient catabolism compared to the CV + R and CV.
PXD035805	36217030	A comprehensive SARS-CoV-2-human protein-protein interactome reveals COVID-19 pathobiology and potential host therapeutic targets. 	A comprehensive SARS-CoV-2-human protein-protein interactome network that can identify pathobiology and host-targeting therapies for COVID-19	Covid-19, IP-MS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, TMT, Y2H, virus pathobiology	Studying viral-host protein-protein interactions can facilitate the discovery of therapies for viral infection. We use high-throughput yeast two-hybrid experiments and mass spectrometry to generate a comprehensive SARS-CoV-2-human protein-protein interactome network consisting of 739 high-confidence binary and co-complex interactions, validating 218 known SARS-CoV-2 host factors and revealing 361 novel ones. Our results show the highest overlap of interaction partners between published datasets and of genes differentially expressed in samples from COVID-19 patients. We identify an interaction between the viral protein ORF3a and the human transcription factor ZNF579, illustrating a direct viral impact on host transcription. We perform network-based screens of >2,900 FDA-approved or investigational drugs and identify 23 with significant network proximity to SARS-CoV-2 host factors. One of these drugs, carvedilol, shows clinical benefits for COVID-19 patients in an electronic health records analysis and antiviral properties in a human lung cell line infected with SARS-CoV-2. Our study demonstrates the value of network systems biology to understand human-virus interactions and provides hits for further research on COVID-19 therapeutics.
PXD035968	36217034	The aldolase inhibitor aldometanib mimics glucose starvation to activate lysosomal AMPK. 	The aldolase inhibitor aldometanib mimics glucose starvation to activate lysosomal AMPK	AMPK, aldolase inhibitor, aldometanib, lysosomal pathway	The activity of 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is inversely correlated with the cellular availability of glucose. When glucose levels are low, the glycolytic enzyme aldolase is not bound to fructose-1,6-bisphosphate (FBP) and, instead, signals to activate lysosomal AMPK. Here, we show that blocking FBP binding to aldolase with the small molecule aldometanib selectively activates the lysosomal pool of AMPK and has beneficial metabolic effects in rodents. We identify aldometanib in a screen for aldolase inhibitors and show that it prevents FBP from binding to v-ATPase-associated aldolase and activates lysosomal AMPK, thereby mimicking a cellular state of glucose starvation. In male mice, aldometanib elicits an insulin-independent glucose-lowering effect, without causing hypoglycaemia. Aldometanib also alleviates fatty liver and nonalcoholic steatohepatitis in obese male rodents. Moreover, aldometanib extends lifespan and healthspan in both Caenorhabditis elegans and mice. Taken together, aldometanib mimics and adopts the lysosomal AMPK activation pathway associated with glucose starvation to exert physiological roles, and might have potential as a therapeutic for metabolic disorders in humans.
PXD034229	36217175	Multiomic analysis of papillary thyroid cancers identifies BAIAP2L1-BRAF fusion and requirement of TRIM25, PDE5A and PKCdelta for tumorigenesis. 	Multiomics analysis of Papillary thyroid cancers identifies BAIAP2L1-BRAF fusion and requirement of TRIM25, PDE5A and PKCdelta for tumorigenesis	BAIAP2L1-BRAF, Papillary thyroid cancer (PTC), interactome, precision medicine	BACKGROUND: Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is one of the most common forms of thyroid cancer with a cure rate of over 90% after surgery. However, aggressive forms may still occur, and personalized therapeutic strategies are increasingly required. METHODS: We performed integrated genomic and proteomic analysis of PTC tumor samples from patients who did not harbor BRAF or RAS mutations. We validate the analysis and present in-depth molecular analysis of the identified genetic rearrangement by employing biochemical and cell biological assays. Finally, we employ 3D spheroid models, loss of function studies and chemical inhibitors to target the hitherto upregulated factors. The data are analysed with appropriate statistical tests which are mentioned in the legends section. RESULTS: In a 23-year-old patient with thyroiditis, we identified a novel rearrangement leading to a BAIAP2L1-BRAF fusion that transforms immortalized human thyroid cells in a kinase and CC-domain dependent manner. Moreover, quantitative proteomic analysis of the same patient samples revealed the upregulation of several proteins including the Ubiquitin E3 ligase TRIM25, PDE5A, and PKCdelta. Further, in a cohort of PTC patients, we observed higher expression of TRIM25 and PKCdelta in the tumor and metastatic lesions, when compared to the matched normal tissue. Inhibition of TRIM25, PDE5A and PKCdelta with small molecules or RNA interference affected not only viability and proliferation of BAIAP2L1-BRAF transformed cells, but also the viability, growth and invasion of corresponding 3D spheroid cultures. CONCLUSIONS: Apart from unveiling a novel oncogenic BRAF fusion in PTCs, our data may open a novel avenue of therapeutic targeting in human PTCs.
PXD029435	36217825	Autophagy regulates neuronal excitability by controlling cAMP/protein kinase A signaling at the synapse. 	Proteome and phosphoproteome analysis of autophagy deficient ATG5flox:CamKII-Cre and ATG5flox:VGAT-Cre conditional knockout mice	ATG5, autophagy, brain, neurons	Autophagy provides nutrients during starvation and eliminates detrimental cellular components. However, accumulating evidence indicates that autophagy is not merely a housekeeping process. Here, by combining mouse models of neuron-specific ATG5 deficiency in either excitatory or inhibitory neurons with quantitative proteomics, high-content microscopy, and live-imaging approaches, we show that autophagy protein ATG5 functions in neurons to regulate cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA)-mediated phosphorylation of a synapse-confined proteome. This function of ATG5 is independent of bulk turnover of synaptic proteins and requires the targeting of PKA inhibitory R1 subunits to autophagosomes. Neuronal loss of ATG5 causes synaptic accumulation of PKA-R1, which sequesters the PKA catalytic subunit and diminishes cAMP/PKA-dependent phosphorylation of postsynaptic cytoskeletal proteins that mediate AMPAR trafficking. Furthermore, ATG5 deletion in glutamatergic neurons augments AMPAR-dependent excitatory neurotransmission and causes the appearance of spontaneous recurrent seizures in mice. Our findings identify a novel role of autophagy in regulating PKA signaling at glutamatergic synapses and suggest the PKA as a target for restoration of synaptic function in neurodegenerative conditions with autophagy dysfunction.
PXD031813	36217943	Plasma proteomics identify potential severity biomarkers from COVID-19 associated network. 	Plasma Proteomics Reveal COVID-19 Associated Network and Severity Biomarkers	COVID-19 associated network, COVID-19 disease, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, label-free quantification, mass-spectrometry based plasma proteomics, severity biomarkers	PURPOSE: Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) continues to threaten public health globally. Severe acute respiratory coronavirus type 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection-dependent alterations in the host cell signaling network may unveil potential target proteins and pathways for therapeutic strategies. In this study, we aim to define early severity biomarkers and monitor altered pathways in the course of SARS-CoV-2 infection. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: We systematically analyzed plasma proteomes of COVID-19 patients from Turkey by using mass spectrometry. Different severity grades (moderate, severe, and critical) and periods of disease (early, inflammatory, and recovery) are monitored. Significant alterations in protein expressions are used to reconstruct the COVID-19 associated network that was further extended to connect viral and host proteins. RESULTS: Across all COVID-19 patients, 111 differentially expressed proteins were found, of which 28 proteins were unique to our study mainly enriching in immunoglobulin production. By monitoring different severity grades and periods of disease, CLEC3B, MST1, and ITIH2 were identified as potential early predictors of COVID-19 severity. Most importantly, we extended the COVID-19 associated network with viral proteins and showed the connectedness of viral proteins with human proteins. The most connected viral protein ORF8, which has a role in immune evasion, targets many host proteins tightly connected to the deregulated human plasma proteins. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Plasma proteomes from critical patients are intrinsically clustered in a distinct group than severe and moderate patients. Importantly, we did not recover any grouping based on the infection period, suggesting their distinct proteome even in the recovery phase. The new potential early severity markers can be further studied for their value in the clinics to monitor COVID-19 prognosis. Beyond the list of plasma proteins, our disease-associated network unravels altered pathways, and the possible therapeutic targets in SARS-CoV-2 infection by connecting human and viral proteins. Follow-up studies on the disease associated network that we propose here will be useful to determine molecular details of viral perturbation and to address how the infection affects human physiology.
PXD034130	36219682	An N-glycan on the C2 domain of JAGGED1 is important for Notch activation. 	An N-glycan on the C2 domain of Jagged-1 is essential for Notch activation	293F, 293S, Glyoproteomics, Jagged-1	The canonical members of the Jagged/Serrate and Delta families of transmembrane ligands have an extracellular, amino-terminal C2 domain that binds to phospholipids and is required for optimal activation of the Notch receptor. Somatic mutations that cause amino substitutions in the C2 domain in human JAGGED1 (JAG1) have been identified in tumors. We found in reporter cell assays that mutations affecting an N-glycosylation site reduced the ligand's ability to activate Notch. This N-glycosylation site located in the C2 domain is conserved in the Jagged/Serrate family but is lacking in the Delta family. Site-specific glycan analysis of the JAG1 amino terminus demonstrated that occupancy of this site by either a complex-type or high-mannose N-glycan was required for full Notch activation in reporter cell assays. Similarly to JAG1 variants with defects in Notch binding, N-glycan removal, either by mutagenesis of the glycosylation site or by endoglycosidase treatment, reduced receptor activation. The N-glycan variants also reduced receptor activation in a Notch signaling-dependent vascular smooth muscle cell differentiation assay. Loss of the C2 N-glycan reduced JAG1 binding to liposomes to a similar extent as the loss of the entire C2 domain. Molecular dynamics simulations suggested that the presence of the N-glycan limits the orientation of JAG1 relative to the membrane, thus facilitating Notch binding. These data are consistent with a critical role for the N-glycan in promoting a lipid-binding conformation that is required to orient Jagged at the cell membrane for full Notch activation.
PXD027872	36220102	Nuclear mRNA metabolism drives selective basket assembly on a subset of nuclear pore complexes in budding yeast. 	Nuclear pore complexes interactome dissection	Nuclear pore heterogeneity, affinity purification, mRNA maturation	To determine which transcripts should reach the cytoplasm for translation, eukaryotic cells have established mechanisms to regulate selective mRNA export through the nuclear pore complex (NPC). The nuclear basket, a substructure of the NPC protruding into the nucleoplasm, is thought to function as a stable platform where mRNA-protein complexes (mRNPs) are rearranged and undergo quality control prior to export, ensuring that only mature mRNAs reach the cytoplasm. Here, we use proteomic, genetic, live-cell, and single-molecule resolution microscopy approaches in budding yeast to demonstrate that basket formation is dependent on RNA polymerase II transcription and subsequent mRNP processing. We further show that while all NPCs can bind Mlp1, baskets assemble only on a subset of nucleoplasmic NPCs, and these basket-containing NPCs associate a distinct protein and RNA interactome. Taken together, our data point toward NPC heterogeneity and an RNA-dependent mechanism for functionalization of NPCs in budding yeast through nuclear basket assembly.
PXD063461	36220400	Duodenal inflammation in common variable immunodeficiency has altered transcriptional response to viruses. 	Duodenal inflammation in common variable immunodeficiency has altered transcriptional response to viruses	CVID, IgA, Primary, RNA, celiac, disease, duodenum, gastrointestinal, gut, immunodeficiency, microbiome, microbiota, sequencing, tract	BACKGROUND: A substantial proportion of common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) patients has duodenal inflammation of largely unknown etiology. However, because of its histologic similarities with celiac disease, gluten sensitivity has been proposed as a potential mechanism. OBJECTIVE: We aimed to elucidate the role of the duodenal microenvironment in the pathogenesis of duodenal inflammation in CVID by investigating the transcriptional, proteomic, and microbial signatures of duodenal biopsy samples in CVID. METHODS: DNA, total RNA, and protein were isolated from snap-frozen pieces of duodenal biopsy samples from CVID (with and without duodenal inflammation), healthy controls, and patients with celiac disease (untreated). RNA sequencing, mass spectrometry-based proteomics, and 16S ribosomal DNA sequencing (bacteria) were then performed. RESULTS: CVID separated from controls in regulation of transcriptional response to lipopolysaccharide and cellular immune responses. These differences were independent of mucosal inflammation. Instead, CVID patients with duodenal inflammation displayed alterations in transcription of genes involved in response to viral infections. Four proteins were differently regulated between CVID patients and healthy controls-DBNL, TRMT11, GCHFR, and IGHA2-independent of duodenal inflammation. Despite similar histology, there were major differences in CVID with duodenal inflammation and celiac disease both at the RNA and protein level. No significant difference was observed in the bacterial gut microbial signature between CVID, celiac, and healthy controls. CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest the existence of altered functions of the duodenal epithelium, particularly in response to lipopolysaccharide and viruses. The latter finding was related to duodenal inflammation, suggesting that viruses, not gluten sensitivity, could be related to duodenal inflammation in CVID.
PXD039344	36220867	Integrative multiomic analyses of dorsal root ganglia in diabetic neuropathic pain using proteomics, phospho-proteomics, and metabolomics. 	Integrative multiomic analyses of dorsal root ganglia in diabetic neuropathic pain using proteomics, phosphoproteomics, and metabolomics	Diabetic peripheral neuropathy, Dorsal root ganglia, phosphoproteomics	Diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN) is characterized by spontaneous pain in the extremities. Incidence of DPN continues to rise with the global diabetes epidemic. However, there remains a lack of safe, effective analgesics to control this chronic painful condition. Dorsal root ganglia (DRG) contain soma of sensory neurons and modulate sensory signal transduction into the central nervous system. In this study, we aimed to gain a deeper understanding of changes in molecular pathways in the DRG of DPN patients with chronic pain. We recently reported transcriptomic changes in the DRG with DPN. Here, we expand upon those results with integrated metabolomic, proteomic, and phospho-proteomic analyses to compare the molecular profiles of DRG from DPN donors and DRG from control donors without diabetes or chronic pain. Our analyses identified decreases of select amino acids and phospholipid metabolites in the DRG from DPN donors, which are important for cellular maintenance. Additionally, our analyses revealed changes suggestive of extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling and altered mRNA processing. These results reveal new insights into changes in the molecular profiles associated with DPN.
PXD027206	36221862	Chromatin remodeling is required for sRNA-guided DNA elimination in Paramecium. 	RNA-mediated nucleosome depletion is required for elimination of transposon-derived DNA	ISWI, Paramecium tetraurelia, chromatin, epigenetics  Project, genome reorganization, nucleosome positioning, transposable elements	Small RNAs mediate the silencing of transposable elements and other genomic loci, increasing nucleosome density and preventing undesirable gene expression. The unicellular ciliate Paramecium is a model to study dynamic genome organization in eukaryotic cells, given its unique feature of nuclear dimorphism. Here, the formation of the somatic macronucleus during sexual reproduction requires eliminating thousands of transposon remnants (IESs) and transposable elements scattered throughout the germline micronuclear genome. The elimination process is guided by Piwi-associated small RNAs and leads to precise cleavage at IES boundaries. Here we show that IES recognition and precise excision are facilitated by recruiting ISWI1, a Paramecium homolog of the chromatin remodeler ISWI. ISWI1 knockdown substantially inhibits DNA elimination, quantitatively similar to development-specific sRNA gene knockdowns but with much greater aberrant IES excision at alternative boundaries. We also identify key development-specific sRNA biogenesis and transport proteins, Ptiwi01 and Ptiwi09, as ISWI1 cofactors in our co-immunoprecipitation studies. Nucleosome profiling indicates that increased nucleosome density correlates with the requirement for ISWI1 and other proteins necessary for IES excision. We propose that chromatin remodeling together with small RNAs is essential for efficient and precise DNA elimination in Paramecium.
PXD034338	36222260	Proteome and phosphoproteome profiling of non-small cell lung cancer cell line A549 treated with TRAIL. 	proteome and phosphoproteome profiling of nonsmall cell lung cancer cells treated by TRAIL	TRAIL, phosphoproteomics	Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL) is recognized for its promising therapeutic effects against cancer. However, mechanisms underlying the effect of TRAIL on protein expression, signal transduction, and apoptosis induction remain unclear. We surmised that a systematic analysis of the proteome and phosphoproteome associated with TRAIL signaling may help elucidate the mechanisms involved and facilitate the development of therapeutics. Therefore, we investigated the proteome and phosphoproteome of non-small cell lung cancer cell line A549 treated with TRAIL. Our results indicated that 126 proteins and 1684 phosphosites were markedly differentially expressed between the phosphate-buffered saline- and TRAIL-treated groups. The expression at protein and phosphosite levels were not completely consistent. Gene ontology functional analysis revealed that metal ion (zinc) binding was highly affected by TRAIL treatment. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis showed that almost all pathways that involved differentially expressed phosphosites were associated with apoptosis. We also identified an important kinase, AKT1, and its series of substrates in TRAIL signaling. The results of this study may provide guidance for future research on tumor therapy using TRAIL.
PXD029370	36223047	Digoxin Induces Human Astrocyte Reaction In Vitro. 	Digoxin induces astrocyte activation into a human in vitro astrocyte model	Neurotoxicty, astrocytes, astrogliosis, energy metabolism, glycolysis, neuroinflammation	Astrocyte reaction is a complex cellular process involving astrocytes in response to various types of CNS injury and a marker of neurotoxicity. It has been abundantly studied in rodents but relatively poorly in human cells due to limited access to the brain. Astrocytes play important roles in cerebral energy metabolism and are also key players in neuroinflammation. Astroglial metabolic and inflammatory changes have been reported with age, leading to the hypothesis that mitochondrial metabolism and inflammatory responses are interconnected. However, the relationship between energy metabolism and astrocyte reactivity in the context of neurotoxicity is not known. We hypothesized that changes in energy metabolism of astrocytes will be coupled to their activation by xenobiotics. Astrocyte reaction and associated energy metabolic changes were assessed by immunostaining, gene expression, proteomics, metabolomics, and extracellular flux analyses after 24 h of exposure of human ReN-derived astrocytes to digoxin (1-10 microM) or TNFalpha (30 ng/ml) used as a positive control. Strong astrocytic reaction was observed, accompanied by increased glycolysis at low concentrations of digoxin (0.1 and 0.5 microM) and after TNFalpha exposure, suggesting that increased glycolysis may be a common feature of reactive astrocytes, independent of the triggering molecule. In conclusion, whether astrocyte activation is triggered by cytokines or a xenobiotic, it is strongly tied to energy metabolism in human ReN-derived astrocytes. Increased glycolysis might be considered as an endpoint to detect astrocyte activation by potentially neurotoxic compounds in vitro. Finally, ReN-derived astrocytes may help to decipher mechanisms of neurotoxicity in ascertaining the ability of chemicals to directly target astrocytes.
PXD035062	36223561	Dynamic Responses of Chromosome-Binding Protein Complexes to Meiotic Prophase I of Mouse Spermatocyte. 	Dynamic of chromosome-binding protein complexes to meiotic prophase I of mouse spermatocyte	chromosome, meiosis, protein complexes, quantitative proteomics	Meiotic prophase I (MPI) is the most important event in mammalian meiosis. The status of the chromosome-binding proteins (CBPs) and the corresponding complexes and their functions in MPI have not yet been well scrutinized. Quantitative proteomics focused on MPI-related CBPs was accomplished, in which mouse primary spermatocytes in four different subphases of MPI were collected, and chromosome-enriched proteins were extracted and quantitatively identified. According to a stringent criterion, 1136 CBPs in the MPI subphases were quantified. Looking at the dynamic patterns of CBP abundance in response to MPI progression, the patterns were broadly divided into two groups: high abundance in leptotene and zygotene or that in pachytene and diplotene. Furthermore, 152 such CBPs were regarded as 26 CBP complexes with strict filtration, in which some of these complexes were perceived to be MPI-dependent for the first time. These complexes basically belonged to four functional categories, while their dynamic abundance changes following MPI appeared; the functions of DNA replication decreased; and transcription and synapsis were activated in zygotene, pachytene, and diplotene; in contrast to the traditional prediction, condensin activity weakened in pachytene and diplotene. Profiling of protein complexes thus offered convincing evidence of the importance of CBP complexes in MPI.
PXD026449	36224215	Impaired amino acid uptake leads to global metabolic imbalance of Candida albicans biofilms. 	Impaired amino acid uptake leads to global metabolic imbalance of Candida albicans biofilms	Amino acid metabolism, Biofilms, Candida albicans, Hypoxia, Multi-omics, Secretome	Candida albicans biofilm maturation is accompanied by enhanced expression of amino acid acquisition genes. Three state-of-the-art omics techniques were applied to detail the importance of active amino acid uptake during biofilm development. Comparative analyses of normoxic wild-type biofilms were performed under three metabolically challenging conditions: aging, hypoxia, and disabled amino acid uptake using a strain lacking the regulator of amino acid permeases Stp2. Aging-induced amino acid acquisition and stress responses to withstand the increasingly restricted environment. Hypoxia paralyzed overall energy metabolism with delayed amino acid consumption, but following prolonged adaptation, the metabolic fingerprints aligned with aged normoxic biofilms. The extracellular metabolome of stp2Delta biofilms revealed deficient uptake for 11 amino acids, resulting in extensive transcriptional and metabolic changes including induction of amino acid biosynthesis and carbohydrate and micronutrient uptake. Altogether, this study underscores the critical importance of a balanced amino acid homeostasis for C. albicans biofilm development.
PXD034120	36224378	Global, in situ analysis of the structural proteome in individuals with Parkinson's disease to identify a new class of biomarker. 	Global, in situ analysis of the structural proteome in individuals with Parkinson's disease to identify a new class of biomarker	CSF, Parkinson Disease, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, structural proteomics	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disease for which robust biomarkers are needed. Because protein structure reflects function, we tested whether global, in situ analysis of protein structural changes provides insight into PD pathophysiology and could inform a new concept of structural disease biomarkers. Using limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry (LiP-MS), we identified 76 structurally altered proteins in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of individuals with PD relative to healthy donors. These proteins were enriched in processes misregulated in PD, and some proteins also showed structural changes in PD brain samples. CSF protein structural information outperformed abundance information in discriminating between healthy participants and those with PD and improved the discriminatory performance of CSF measures of the hallmark PD protein alpha-synuclein. We also present the first analysis of inter-individual variability of a structural proteome in healthy individuals, identifying biophysical features of variable protein regions. Although independent validation is needed, our data suggest that global analyses of the human structural proteome will guide the development of novel structural biomarkers of disease and enable hypothesis generation about underlying disease processes.
PXD036051	36224515	A Sensitive and Reversible Labeling Strategy Enables Global Mapping of the Core-Fucosylated Glycoproteome on Cell Surfaces. 	A Sensitive and Reversible Labeling Strategy Enables Global Mapping of the Core-Fucosylated Glycoproteome on Cell Surfaces	Core Fucosylation, breast cancer	Core fucosylation, the attachment of alpha1,6-fucose to the innermost N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) residue of N-glycans, has a strong relationship with tumor growth, invasion, metastasis, prognosis, and immune evasion by regulating many membrane proteins. However, details about the functional mechanism are still largely unknown due to the lack of an effective analytical method to identify cell-surface core-fucosylated glycoproteins, and especially glycosylation sites. Here, we developed a sensitive and reversible labeling strategy for probing core fucosylation, by which core-fucosylated glycoproteins that located on cell-surface were selectively tagged by a biotinylated probe with high sensitivity. The labeled probe can be further broken enzymatically after the capture by affinity resin. The on-bead traceless cleavage allowed the global mapping of core-fucosylated glycoproteins and glycosylation sites by mass spectrometry (MS). The profile of core-fucosylated glycoproteome provides an in-depth understanding of the biological functions of core fucosylation.
PXD035709	36225252	Spike S1 domain interactome in non-pulmonary systems: A role beyond the receptor recognition. 	Spike S1 domain interactome in non-pulmonary systems: a role beyond the receptor recognition	AP-MS, COVID-19, S1 domain, SARS-CoV-2, Spike protein, host-virus interaction, interactomics	Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) causes Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19), which, since 2019 in China, has rapidly become a worldwide pandemic. The aggressiveness and global spread were enhanced by the many SARS-CoV-2 variants that have been isolated up to now. These mutations affect mostly the viral glycoprotein Spike (S), the capsid protein mainly involved in the early stages of viral entry processes, through the recognition of specific receptors on the host cell surface. In particular, the subunit S1 of the Spike glycoprotein contains the Receptor Binding Domain (RBD) and it is responsible for the interaction with the angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2). Although ACE2 is the primary Spike host receptor currently studied, it has been demonstrated that SARS-CoV-2 is also able to infect cells expressing low levels of ACE2, indicating that the virus may have alternative receptors on the host cells. The identification of the alternative receptors can better elucidate the pathogenicity and the tropism of SARS-CoV-2. Therefore, we investigated the Spike S1 interactomes, starting from host membrane proteins of non-pulmonary cell lines, such as human kidney (HK-2), normal colon (NCM460D), and colorectal adenocarcinoma (Caco-2). We employed an affinity purification-mass spectrometry (AP-MS) to pull down, from the membrane protein extracts of all cell lines, the protein partners of the recombinant form of the Spike S1 domain. The purified interactors were identified by a shotgun proteomics approach. The lists of S1 potential interacting proteins were then clusterized according to cellular localization, biological processes, and pathways, highlighting new possible S1 intracellular functions, crucial not only for the entrance mechanisms but also for viral replication and propagation processes.
PXD034952	36225559	Jia-ga-song-tang protection against alcoholic liver and intestinal damage. 	Protection by Jia-Ga-Song-Tang from Alcohol-induced Liver and Intestines damage	Alcoholic liver disease, Jia Ga SonTang, Liver protection	Gut-liver axis and cellular homeostasis play key roles in alcohol liver disease (ALD). Nuclear factor (erythroid-derived 2)-like 2 (Nrf2) is a stress-sensitive guarantor of cellular homeostasis. We investigated whether the beneficial effects and underlying mechanisms of Jia-ga-song Tang (JGST) against ALD were associated with gut-liver axis and cellular homeostasis. A predictive network depicting the relationship between Jia-Ga-Song-Tang (JGST) and alcoholic liver disease (ALD) was designed by Network pharmacology. Next, 5% v/v Lieber-DeCarli alcohol liquid diet was used to establish the ALD. JGST protected the liver damage, repaired the intestines to alleviate the Two-hit on the liver, and balanced the cellular homeostasis. It was manifested in repairing the liver and intestinal pathological structure, reducing serum ALT, AST, and liver TG, TC, MDA, CAT, and increasing liver GSH, and intestine GSH-Px. JGST mainly inhibited the liver mRNA levels of HO-1, NQO1, GCLC, FASN, and PPARalpha and activated the intestinal mRNA levels of HO-1 and NQO1, while inhibiting the liver protein levels of HO-1, NQO1. Furthermore, LPS and LBP in the plasma and the expression of inflammatory factors such as IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, IL-6, TGFbeta1, CD14, and Myd88 were reduced after treatment to prove that JGST protects the liver from Two-hit. Ethanol was used to intervene in HepG2 and IEC-6 to establish an ALD cell model and treated by Germacrone, ML385, and TBHQ. repaired the intestinal barrier, and inhibited Nrf2 in IEC-6, but protect the HepG2 by activating Nrf2 to balance cellular homeostasis. Our results reinforce that JGST provides an effective protective method for alcoholic liver disease (ALD) by regulating Gut-liver axis and cellular homeostasis.
PXD035421	36227996	Peptide ligand-mediated trade-off between plant growth and stress response. 	Peptide ligand-mediated trade-off between plant growth and stress response	LTQ Orbitrap XL	Deciding whether to grow or to divert energy to stress responses is a major physiological trade-off for plants surviving in fluctuating environments. We show that three leucine-rich repeat receptor kinases (LRR-RKs) act as direct ligand-perceiving receptors for PLANT PEPTIDE CONTAINING SULFATED TYROSINE (PSY)-family peptides and mediate switching between two opposing pathways. By contrast to known LRR-RKs, which activate signaling upon ligand binding, PSY receptors (PSYRs) activate the expression of various genes encoding stress response transcription factors upon depletion of the ligands. Loss of PSYRs results in defects in plant tolerance to both biotic and abiotic stresses. This ligand-deprivation-dependent activation system potentially enables plants to exert tuned regulation of stress responses in the tissues proximal to metabolically dysfunctional damaged sites where ligand production is impaired.
PXD027650	36228757	Venom characterization of the Brazilian Pampa snake Bothrops pubescens by top-down and bottom-up proteomics. 	Top-Down and Bottom-Up Proteomics Strategies for Characterization of Brazilian Pampa Snake, Bothrops pubescens, venom.	Bothrops, snake	The envenomation from the Bothrops genus is characterized by systemic and local effects caused by the main toxin families in the venom. In Bothrops pubescens venom we were able to identify 89 protein groups belonging to 13 toxin families with the bottom-up proteomics approach and 40 unique proteoforms belonging to 6 toxin families with the top-down proteomics approach. We also identified multi-proteoform complexes of dimeric L-amino acid oxidase using native top-down mass spectrometry.
PXD020593	36229431	INTS13 variants causing a recessive developmental ciliopathy disrupt assembly of the Integrator complex. 	Mutations Causing a Developmental Ciliopathy Disrupt Integrator Complex Assembly	fly, lcms	Oral-facial-digital (OFD) syndromes are a heterogeneous group of congenital disorders characterized by malformations of the face and oral cavity, and digit anomalies. Mutations within 12 cilia-related genes have been identified that cause several types of OFD, suggesting that OFDs constitute a subgroup of developmental ciliopathies. Through homozygosity mapping and exome sequencing of two families with variable OFD type 2, we identified distinct germline variants in INTS13, a subunit of the Integrator complex. This multiprotein complex associates with RNA Polymerase II and cleaves nascent RNA to modulate gene expression. We determined that INTS13 utilizes its C-terminus to bind the Integrator cleavage module, which is disrupted by the identified germline variants p.S652L and p.K668Nfs*9. Depletion of INTS13 disrupts ciliogenesis in human cultured cells and causes dysregulation of a broad collection of ciliary genes. Accordingly, its knockdown in Xenopus embryos leads to motile cilia anomalies. Altogether, we show that mutations in INTS13 cause an autosomal recessive ciliopathy, which reveals key interactions between components of the Integrator complex.
PXD026709	36229534	Glomerular proteomic profiling of kidney biopsies with hypertensive nephropathy reveals a signature of disease progression. 	Glomerular proteomic profiling of kidney biopsies with hypertensive nephropathy reveals a signature of disease progression	Glomerulus, Hypertensive nephropathy, Kidney, Microdissection	Hypertensive nephropathy (HN) requires a kidney biopsy as diagnostic gold-standard but histological findings are unspecific and specific prognostic markers are missing. We aimed at identifying candidate prognostic markers based on glomerular protein signatures. We studied adult patients (n = 17) with eGFR >30 ml/min/1.73m(2) and proteinuria <3 g/d from the Norwegian Kidney Biopsy Registry, including subjects non progressing (NP, n = 9), or progressing (P, n = 8) to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) within an average follow-up of 22 years. Glomerular cross-sections from archival kidney biopsy sections were microdissected and processed for protein extraction. Proteomic analyses were performed using Q-exactive HF mass spectrometer and relative glomerular protein abundances were compared between P and NP patients. Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was used to validate selected data. Amongst 1870 quality filtered proteins, 58 were differentially expressed in P and NP patients' glomeruli, with absolute fold changes (FC) >=1.5, p <= 0.05. Supervised classifier analysis (K nearest neighbor) identified a set of five proteins, including Gamma-butyrobetaine dioxygenase (BBOX1, O75936) and Cadherin 16 (CDH16, O75309), overexpressed in P, and Eosinophil peroxidase (EPX, P11678), DnaJ homolog subfamily B member 1 (DNAJB1, P25685) and Alpha-1-syntrophin (SNTA1, Q13424), overexpressed in NP glomeruli, correctly classifying 16/17 kidney biopsy samples. Geneset Enrichment Analysis (GSEA), showed that metabolic pathways were generally enriched in P, and structural cell pathways in NP. Pathway analysis identified Epithelial Adherens Junction Signaling as most affected canonical pathway. IHC analysis confirmed overexpression of BBOX1 and Cadherin 16 in glomeruli from P patients. In conclusion, glomerular proteomic profiling can be used to discriminate P from NP HN patients.
PXD026990	36229605	Algal photosystem I dimer and high-resolution model of PSI-plastocyanin complex. 	Intensity-based absolute quantification (iBAQ) of components of photosystem I monomers and dimers.	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, PSI, Photosystem I, iBAQ	Photosystem I (PSI) enables photo-electron transfer and regulates photosynthesis in the bioenergetic membranes of cyanobacteria and chloroplasts. Being a multi-subunit complex, its macromolecular organization affects the dynamics of photosynthetic membranes. Here we reveal a chloroplast PSI from the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii that is organized as a homodimer, comprising 40 protein subunits with 118 transmembrane helices that provide scaffold for 568 pigments. Cryogenic electron microscopy identified that the absence of PsaH and Lhca2 gives rise to a head-to-head relative orientation of the PSI-light-harvesting complex I monomers in a way that is essentially different from the oligomer formation in cyanobacteria. The light-harvesting protein Lhca9 is the key element for mediating this dimerization. The interface between the monomers is lacking PsaH and thus partially overlaps with the surface area that would bind one of the light-harvesting complex II complexes in state transitions. We also define the most accurate available PSI-light-harvesting complex I model at 2.3 Aa resolution, including a flexibly bound electron donor plastocyanin, and assign correct identities and orientations to all the pigments, as well as 621 water molecules that affect energy transfer pathways.
PXD036558	36230784	Novel Insights into Redox-Based Mechanisms for Auranofin-Induced Rapid Cancer Cell Death. 	Novel insights into redox-based mechanisms for auranofin- induced rapid cancer cell death	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), auranofin, cancer, oxidative stress, redox regulation, redoxome	Auranofin (Ridaura((R)), AUF) is a gold complex originally approved as an antirheumatic agent that has emerged as a potential candidate for multiple repurposed therapies. The best-studied anticancer mechanism of AUF is the inhibition of thioredoxin reductase (TrxR). However, a number of reports indicate a more complex and multifaceted mode of action for AUF that could be cancer cell type- and dose-dependent. In this study, we observed that AUF displayed variable cytotoxicity in five triple-negative breast cancer cell lines. Using representative MDA-MB-231 cells treated with moderate and cytotoxic doses of AUF, we evidenced that an AUF-mediated TrxR inhibition alone may not be sufficient to induce cell death. Cytotoxic doses of AUF elicited rapid and drastic intracellular oxidative stress affecting the mitochondria, cytoplasm and nucleus. A "redoxome" proteomics investigation revealed that a short treatment with a cytotoxic dose AUF altered the redox state of a number of cysteines-containing proteins, pointing out that the cell proliferation/cell division/cell cycle and cell-cell adhesion/cytoskeleton structure were the mostly affected pathways. Experimentally, AUF treatment triggered a dose-dependent S-phase arrest and a rapid disintegration of the actin cytoskeleton structure. Our study shows a new spectrum of AUF-induced early effects and should provide novel insights into the complex redox-based mechanisms of this promising anticancer molecule.
PXD035842	36231049	Influence of Shear Stress, Inflammation and BRD4 Inhibition on Human Endothelial Cells: A Holistic Proteomic Approach. 	Proteomic Evaluation of the Influence of Shear Stress and BRD4-Inhibition on Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells	Atherosclerosis, BET-Inhibitor, BRD4, DIA-MS, Endothelial, HUVEC, JQ1, Shear Stress	Atherosclerosis is an important risk factor in the development of cardiovascular diseases. In addition to increased plasma lipid concentrations, irregular/oscillatory shear stress and inflammatory processes trigger atherosclerosis. Inhibitors of the transcription modulatory bromo- and extra-terminal domain (BET) protein family (BETi) could offer a possible therapeutic approach due to their epigenetic mechanism and anti-inflammatory properties. In this study, the influence of laminar shear stress, inflammation and BETi treatment on human endothelial cells was investigated using global protein expression profiling by ion mobility separation-enhanced data independent acquisition mass spectrometry (IMS-DIA-MS). For this purpose, primary human umbilical cord derived vascular endothelial cells were treated with TNFalpha to mimic inflammation and exposed to laminar shear stress in the presence or absence of the BRD4 inhibitor JQ1. IMS-DIA-MS detected over 4037 proteins expressed in endothelial cells. Inflammation, shear stress and BETi led to pronounced changes in protein expression patterns with JQ1 having the greatest effect. To our knowledge, this is the first proteomics study on primary endothelial cells, which provides an extensive database for the effects of shear stress, inflammation and BETi on the endothelial proteome.
PXD035652	36231050	Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Profiling Reveals the Oncogenic Role of Protein Kinase D Family Kinases in Cholangiocarcinoma. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling reveals the oncogenic role of protein kinase D family kinases in cholangiocarcinoma	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), cholangiocarcinoma, phosphoproteomics, protein kinase, protein kinase D	Cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) is a lethal malignancy in the hepatobiliary system, with dysregulated protein expression and phosphorylation signaling. However, the protein and phosphorylation signatures of CCAs are little-known. Here, we performed the proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of tumors and normal adjacent tissues (NATs) from patients with CCA and predicted eleven PKs high-potentially related to CCA with a comprehensive inference of the functional protein kinases (PKs) (CifPK) pipeline. Besides the two known CCA-associated PKs, we screened the remaining candidates and uncovered five PKs as novel regulators in CCA. Specifically, the protein kinase D (PKD) family members, including PRKD1, PRKD2, and PRKD3, were identified as critical regulators in CCA. Moreover, the pan-inhibitor of the PKD family, 1-naphthyl PP1 (1-NA-PP1), was validated as a potent agent for inhibiting the proliferation, migration, and invasion ability of CCA cells. This study reveals new PKs associated with CCA and suggests PRKD kinases as novel treatment targets for CCA.
PXD033504	36231125	Profound Effects of Dexamethasone on the Immunological State, Synthesis and Secretion Capacity of Human Testicular Peritubular Cells. 	Dexamethasone is a regulator of human testicular peritubular cells / Secretome Data	Human male fertility, cytokines, dexamethasone, human testis, inflammation	The functions of human testicular peritubular cells (HTPCs), forming a small compartment located between the seminiferous epithelium and the interstitial areas of the testis, are not fully known but go beyond intratesticular sperm transport and include immunological roles. The expression of the glucocorticoid receptor (GR) indicates that they may be regulated by glucocorticoids (GCs). Herein, we studied the consequences of the GC dexamethasone (Dex) in cultured HTPCs, which serves as a unique window into the human testis. We examined changes in cytokines, mainly by qPCR and ELISA. A holistic mass-spectrometry-based proteome analysis of cellular and secreted proteins was also performed. Dex, used in a therapeutic concentration, decreased the transcript level of proinflammatory cytokines, e.g., IL6, IL8 and MCP1. An siRNA-mediated knockdown of GR reduced the actions on IL6. Changes in IL6 were confirmed by ELISA measurements. Of note, Dex also lowered GR levels. The proteomic results revealed strong responses after 24 h (31 significantly altered cellular proteins) and more pronounced ones after 72 h of Dex exposure (30 less abundant and 42 more abundant cellular proteins). Dex also altered the composition of the secretome (33 proteins decreased, 13 increased) after 72 h. Among the regulated proteins were extracellular matrix (ECM) and basement membrane components (e.g., FBLN2, COL1A2 and COL3A1), as well as PTX3 and StAR. These results pinpoint novel, profound effects of Dex in HTPCs. If transferrable to the human testis, changes specifically in ECM and the immunological state of the testis may occur in men upon treatment with Dex for medical reasons.
PXD034554	36232439	Nuclear Functions of KaeA, a Subunit of the KEOPS Complex in Aspergillus nidulans. 	Identification of proteins interacting with KaeA, the subunit of KEOPS complex in Aspergillus nidulans in vivo.	Aspergillus nidulans, interactomics	Kae1 is a subunit of the highly evolutionarily conserved KEOPS/EKC complex, which is involved in universal (t6A37) tRNA modification. Several reports have discussed the participation of this complex in transcription regulation in yeast and human cells, including our previous observations of KaeA, an Aspergillus nidulans homologue of Kae1p. The aim of this project was to confirm the role of KaeA in transcription, employing high-throughput transcriptomic (RNA-Seq and ChIP-Seq) and proteomic (LC-MS) analysis. We confirmed that KaeA is a subunit of the KEOPS complex in A. nidulans. An analysis of kaeA19 and kaeA25 mutants showed that, although the (t6A37) tRNA modification is unaffected in both mutants, they reveal significantly altered transcriptomes compared to the wild type. The finding that KaeA is localized in chromatin and identifying its protein partners allows us to postulate an additional nuclear function for the protein. Our data shed light on the universal bi-functional role of this factor and proves that the activity of this protein is not limited to tRNA modification in cytoplasm, but also affects the transcriptional activity of a number of nuclear genes. Data are available via the NCBI's GEO database under identifiers GSE206830 (RNA-Seq) and GSE206874 (ChIP-Seq), and via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD034554 (proteomic).
PXD035120	36232544	Plasma Proteomics Enable Differentiation of Lung Adenocarcinoma from Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). 	Plasma proteomics enable differentiation of lung adenocarcinoma from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)	Adenocarcinoma of the lung, SAA1, SERPINA3, artificial intelligence, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, machine learning, plasma proteomics, random forest	Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major risk factor for the development of lung adenocarcinoma (AC). AC often develops on underlying COPD; thus, the differentiation of both entities by biomarker is challenging. Although survival of AC patients strongly depends on early diagnosis, a biomarker panel for AC detection and differentiation from COPD is still missing. Plasma samples from 176 patients with AC with or without underlying COPD, COPD patients, and hospital controls were analyzed using mass-spectrometry-based proteomics. We performed univariate statistics and additionally evaluated machine learning algorithms regarding the differentiation of AC vs. COPD and AC with COPD vs. COPD. Univariate statistics revealed significantly regulated proteins that were significantly regulated between the patient groups. Furthermore, random forest classification yielded the best performance for differentiation of AC vs. COPD (area under the curve (AUC) 0.935) and AC with COPD vs. COPD (AUC 0.916). The most influential proteins were identified by permutation feature importance and compared to those identified by univariate testing. We demonstrate the great potential of machine learning for differentiation of highly similar disease entities and present a panel of biomarker candidates that should be considered for the development of a future biomarker panel.
PXD037033	36232817	What Do the Transcriptome and Proteome of Menstrual Blood-Derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells Tell Us about Endometriosis? 	What do the transcriptome and proteome of menstrual blood derived mesenchymal stem cells tell us about endometriosis?	Endometriosis, mesenchymal cells	Given the importance of menstrual blood in the pathogenesis of endometriosis and the multifunctional roles of menstrual mesenchymal stem cells (MenSCs) in regenerative medicine, this issue has gained prominence in the scientific community. Moreover, recent reviews highlight how robust the integrated assessment of omics data are for endometriosis. To our knowledge, no study has applied the multi-omics approaches to endometriosis MenSCs. This is a case-control study at a university-affiliated hospital. MenSCs transcriptome and proteome data were obtained by RNA-seq and UHPLC-MS/MS detection. Among the differentially expressed proteins and genes, we emphasize ATF3, ID1, ID3, FOSB, SNAI1, NR4A1, EGR1, LAMC3, and ZFP36 genes and MT2A, TYMP, COL1A1, COL6A2, and NID2 proteins that were already reported in the endometriosis. Our functional enrichment analysis reveals integrated modulating signaling pathways such as epithelial-mesenchymal transition (^) and PI3K signaling via AKT to mTORC1 (v in proteome), mTORC1 signaling, TGF beta signaling, TNFA signaling via NFkB, IL6 STAT3 signaling, and response to hypoxia via HIF1A targets (^ in transcriptome). Our findings highlight primary changes in the endometriosis MenSCs, suggesting that the chronic inflammatory endometrial microenvironment can modulate these cells, providing opportunities for endometriosis etiopathogenesis. Moreover, they identify challenges for future research leveraging knowledge for regenerative and precision medicine in endometriosis.
PXD037703	36232890	A Degradation Motif in STAU1 Defines a Novel Family of Proteins Involved in Inflammation. 	A degradation motif in STAU1 defines a novel family of proteins involved in inflammation	E3-ubiquitin ligase, Staufen 1, TRIM25, degron, inflammation, protein degradation	Cancer development is regulated by inflammation. Staufen1 (STAU1) is an RNA-binding protein whose expression level is critical in cancer cells as it is related to cell proliferation or cell death. STAU1 protein levels are downregulated during mitosis due to its degradation by the E3 ubiquitin ligase anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC/C). In this paper, we map the molecular determinant involved in STAU1 degradation to amino acids 38-50, and by alanine scanning, we shorten the motif to F(39)PxPxxLxxxxL(50) (FPL-motif). Mutation of the FPL-motif prevents STAU1 degradation by APC/C. Interestingly, a search in databases reveals that the FPL-motif is shared by 15 additional proteins, most of them being involved in inflammation. We show that one of these proteins, MAP4K1, is indeed degraded via the FPL-motif; however, it is not a target of APC/C. Using proximity labeling with STAU1, we identify TRIM25, an E3 ubiquitin ligase involved in the innate immune response and interferon production, as responsible for STAU1 and MAP4K1 degradation, dependent on the FPL-motif. These results are consistent with previous studies that linked STAU1 to cancer-induced inflammation and identified a novel degradation motif that likely coordinates a novel family of proteins involved in inflammation. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD036675.
PXD036178	36232903	Proteomics Profiling of Stool Samples from Preterm Neonates with SWATH/DIA Mass Spectrometry for Predicting Necrotizing Enterocolitis. 	Proteomics analysis of stool samples from preterm neonates with mass spectrometry for predicting necrotizing enterocolitis	DDA, DIA, SWATH, biomarkers, detection, diagnosis, intestines, necrotizing enterocolitis, neonates, preterm infants, proteomic signature, stool	Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is a life-threatening condition for premature infants in neonatal intensive care units. Finding indicators that can predict NEC development before symptoms appear would provide more time to apply targeted interventions. In this study, stools from 132 very-low-birth-weight (VLBW) infants were collected daily in the context of a multi-center prospective study aimed at investigating the potential of fecal biomarkers for NEC prediction using proteomics technology. Eight of the VLBW infants received a stage-3 NEC diagnosis. Stools collected from the NEC infants up to 10 days before their diagnosis were available for seven of them. Their samples were matched with those from seven pairs of non-NEC controls. The samples were processed for liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis using SWATH/DIA acquisition and cross-compatible proteomic software to perform label-free quantification. ROC curve and principal component analyses were used to explore discriminating information and to evaluate candidate protein markers. A series of 36 proteins showed the most efficient capacity with a signature that predicted all seven NEC infants at least a week in advance. Overall, our study demonstrates that multiplexed proteomic signature detection constitutes a promising approach for the early detection of NEC development in premature infants.
PXD032225	36232970	Quantitative Proteomics of Medium-Sized Extracellular Vesicle-Enriched Plasma of Lacunar Infarction for the Discovery of Prognostic Biomarkers. 	Quantitative Proteomics of Medium-Sized Extracellular Vesicle-Enriched Plasma of Lacunar Infarction for the Discovery of Prognostic Biomarkers	extracellular vesicles, plasma	Lacunar infarction (LACI), a subtype of acute ischemic stroke, has poor mid- to long-term prognosis due to recurrent vascular events or incident dementia which is difficult to predict using existing clinical data. Herein, we aim to discover blood-based biomarkers for LACI as a complementary prognostic tool. Convalescent plasma was collected from forty-five patients following a non-disabling LACI along with seventeen matched control subjects. The patients were followed up prospectively for up to five years to record an occurrence of adverse outcome and grouped accordingly (i.e., LACI-no adverse outcome, LACI-recurrent vascular event, and LACI-cognitive decline without any recurrence of vascular events). Medium-sized extracellular vesicles (MEVs), isolated from the pooled plasma of four groups, were analyzed by stable isotope labeling and 2D-LC-MS/MS. Out of 573 (FDR < 1%) quantified proteins, 146 showed significant changes in at least one LACI group when compared to matched healthy control. A systems analysis revealed that major elements (~85%) of the MEV proteome are different from the proteome of small-sized extracellular vesicles obtained from the same pooled plasma. The altered MEV proteins in LACI patients are mostly reduced in abundance. The majority of the shortlisted MEV proteins are not linked to commonly studied biological processes such as coagulation, fibrinolysis, or inflammation. Instead, they are linked to oxygen-glucose deprivation, endo-lysosomal trafficking, glucose transport, and iron homeostasis. The dataset is provided as a web-based data resource to facilitate meta-analysis, data integration, and targeted large-scale validation.
PXD030938	36233322	Desmin Knock-Out Cardiomyopathy: A Heart on the Verge of Metabolic Crisis. 	Desmin knock-out cardiomyopathy: a heart on the verge of metabolic crisis	amino acid, cardiomyopathy, creatine kinase, desmin, desmin knock-out, desminopathy, fatty acid, glucose, metabolism, mitochondria	Desmin mutations cause familial and sporadic cardiomyopathies. In addition to perturbing the contractile apparatus, both desmin deficiency and mutated desmin negatively impact mitochondria. Impaired myocardial metabolism secondary to mitochondrial defects could conceivably exacerbate cardiac contractile dysfunction. We performed metabolic myocardial phenotyping in left ventricular cardiac muscle tissue in desmin knock-out mice. Our analyses revealed decreased mitochondrial number, ultrastructural mitochondrial defects, and impaired mitochondria-related metabolic pathways including fatty acid transport, activation, and catabolism. Glucose transporter 1 and hexokinase-1 expression and hexokinase activity were increased. While mitochondrial creatine kinase expression was reduced, fetal creatine kinase expression was increased. Proteomic analysis revealed reduced expression of proteins involved in electron transport mainly of complexes I and II, oxidative phosphorylation, citrate cycle, beta-oxidation including auxiliary pathways, amino acid catabolism, and redox reactions and oxidative stress. Thus, desmin deficiency elicits a secondary cardiac mitochondriopathy with severely impaired oxidative phosphorylation and fatty and amino acid metabolism. Increased glucose utilization and fetal creatine kinase upregulation likely portray attempts to maintain myocardial energy supply. It may be prudent to avoid medications worsening mitochondrial function and other metabolic stressors. Therapeutic interventions for mitochondriopathies might also improve the metabolic condition in desmin deficient hearts.
PXD036571	36233441	COVID-19 Salivary Protein Profile: Unravelling Molecular Aspects of SARS-CoV-2 Infection. 	COVID-19 salivary protein profile: unravelling molecular aspects of SARS-COV-2 infection	COVID-19, Covid-19, Interactomics, OralInt, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, Saliva	COVID-19 is the most impacting global pandemic of all time, with over 600 million infected and 6.5 million deaths worldwide, in addition to an unprecedented economic impact. Despite the many advances in scientific knowledge about the disease, much remains to be clarified about the molecular alterations induced by SARS-CoV-2 infection. In this work, we present a hybrid proteomics and in silico interactomics strategy to establish a COVID-19 salivary protein profile. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD036571. The differential proteome was narrowed down by the Partial Least-Squares Discriminant Analysis and enrichment analysis was performed with FunRich. In parallel, OralInt was used to determine interspecies Protein-Protein Interactions between humans and SARS-CoV-2. Five dysregulated biological processes were identified in the COVID-19 proteome profile: Apoptosis, Energy Pathways, Immune Response, Protein Metabolism and Transport. We identified 10 proteins (KLK 11, IMPA2, ANXA7, PLP2, IGLV2-11, IGHV3-43D, IGKV2-24, TMEM165, VSIG10 and PHB2) that had never been associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection, representing new evidence of the impact of COVID-19. Interactomics analysis showed viral influence on the host immune response, mainly through interaction with the degranulation of neutrophils. The virus alters the host's energy metabolism and interferes with apoptosis mechanisms.
PXD033985	36237634	In vivo and in vitro genome editing to explore GNE functions. 	In vivo and in vitro Genome Editing to explore GNE functions	CRISPR/Cas9, GNE, Phosphoproteomics, myopathy	GNE myopathy is an adult onset neuromuscular disorder characterized by slowly progressive distal and proximal muscle weakness, caused by missense recessive mutations in the GNE gene. Although the encoded bifunctional enzyme is well known as the limiting factor in the biosynthesis of sialic acid, no clear mechanisms have been recognized to account for the muscle atrophic pathology, and novel functions for GNE have been hypothesized. Two major issues impair studies on this protein. First, the expression of the GNE protein is minimal in human and mice muscles and there is no reliable antibody to follow up endogenous expression. Second, no reliable animal model is available for the disease and cellular models from GNE myopathy patients' muscle cells (expressing the mutated protein) are less informative than expected. In order to broaden our knowledge on GNE functions in muscle, we have taken advantage of the CRISPR/Cas9 method for genome editing to first, add a tag to the endogenous Gne gene in mouse, allowing the determination of the spatiotemporal expression of the protein in the organism, using well established and reliable antibodies against the specific tag. In addition we have generated a Gne knock out murine muscle cell lineage to identify the events resulting from the total lack of the protein. A thorough multi-omics analysis of both cellular systems including transcriptomics, proteomics, phosphoproteomics and ubiquitination, unraveled novel pathways for Gne, in particular its involvement in cell cycle control and in the DNA damage/repair pathways. The elucidation of fundamental mechanisms of Gne in normal muscle may contribute to the identification of the disrupted functions in GNE myopathy, thus, to the definition of novel biomarkers and possible therapeutic targets for this disease.
PXD035243	36238898	SEL1L-HRD1 ER-associated degradation suppresses hepatocyte hyperproliferation and liver cancer. 	Hepatic Sel1L-Hrd1 ER-associated degradation deficiency leads to intrahepatic cholestasis in mice	Abcb4, Sel1L-Hrd1 ERAD, bile, cholestasis, liver, progressive familial intrahepatic cholestasis	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) homeostasis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various forms of cancer; however, our understanding of the role of ER quality control mechanisms in tumorigenesis remains incomplete. Here, we show that the SEL1L-HRD1 complex of ER-associated degradation (ERAD) suppresses hepatocyte proliferation and tumorigenesis in mice. Hepatocyte-specific deletion of Sel1L or Hrd1 predisposed mice to diet/chemical-induced tumors. Proteomics screen from SEL1L-deficient livers revealed WNT5A, a tumor suppressor, as an ERAD substrate. Indeed, nascent WNT5A was misfolding prone and degraded by SEL1L-HRD1 ERAD in a quality control capacity. In the absence of ERAD, WNT5A misfolds is largely retained in the ER and forms high-molecular weight aggregates, thereby depicting a loss-of-function effect and attenuating WNT5A-mediated suppression of hepatocyte proliferation. In humans, SEL1L-HRD1 ERAD expression correlated positively with survival time for patients with liver cancer. Overall, our data reveal a key role of SEL1L-HRD1 ERAD in suppressing hepatocyte proliferation and liver cancer.
PXD028773	36239350	The novel BRDT inhibitor NHWD870 shows potential as a male contraceptive in mice. 	Proteomics results of mouse testis after NHWD870 treatment	Brdt, NHWD870, testis	Small molecule inhibitors of the bromodomain and extraterminal domain (BET) family proteins have emerged as promising options not only for the treatment of multiple cancers but also for disturbing the process of sperm maturation with potential for use as viable contraceptive targets. In this study, we find that the BET family inhibitor NHWD870 and BRDT can bind well in vitro through bioinformatics software prediction and protein binding inhibition experiments. NHWD870 can produce a good contraceptive effect through animal experiments in vivo, and the fertility can be restored to normal after drug withdrawal. Transcriptomics and proteomics results suggest that NHWD870 affects pathways related to spermatogenesis and maturation, further contributing to the male infertility phenotype. Our results show that NHWD870 can induce a complete and reversible contraceptive effect in mice, which is stronger than that of JQ1 and its synthesized derivatives. This study is expected to eventually lead to clinical trials.
PXD030864	36239373	Dynamic proteomic and phosphoproteomic atlas of corticostriatal axons in neurodevelopment. 	Genetically targeted proteomics identify compositional and phosphoproteome trajectories of corticostriatal projections across postnatal development	APEX2, axon development, proximity labeling	Mammalian axonal development begins in embryonic stages and continues postnatally. After birth, axonal proteomic landscape changes rapidly, coordinated by transcription, protein turnover, and post-translational modifications. Comprehensive profiling of axonal proteomes across neurodevelopment is limited, with most studies lacking cell-type and neural circuit specificity, resulting in substantial information loss. We create a Cre-dependent APEX2 reporter mouse line and map cell-type-specific proteome of corticostriatal projections across postnatal development. We synthesize analysis frameworks to define temporal patterns of axonal proteome and phosphoproteome, identifying co-regulated proteins and phosphorylations associated with genetic risk for human brain disorders. We discover proline-directed kinases as major developmental regulators. APEX2 transgenic reporter proximity labeling offers flexible strategies for subcellular proteomics with cell type specificity in early neurodevelopment, a critical period for neuropsychiatric disease.
PXD033889	36239715	Selective immunocapture reveals neoplastic human mast cells secrete distinct microvesicle- and exosome-like populations of KIT-containing extracellular vesicles. 	Proteomic profiling of KIT-containing EVs secreted by neoplastic human mast cells (SUB1)	KIT, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, immunocapture, mast cell, microvesicles	Activating mutations in the receptor KIT promote the dysregulated proliferation of human mast cells (huMCs). The resulting neoplastic huMCs secrete extracellular vesicles (EVs) that can transfer oncogenic KIT among other cargo into recipient cells. Despite potential contributions to diseases, KIT-containing EVs have not been thoroughly investigated. Here, we isolated and characterized KIT-EV subpopulations released by neoplastic huMCs using an immunocapture approach that selectively isolates EVs containing KIT in its proper topology. Immunocapture of EVs on KIT antibody-coated electron microscopy (EM) affinity grids allowed to assess the morphology and size of KIT-EVs. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated KIT-EVs have a distinct protein profile from KIT-depleted EVs, contain exosome and microvesicle markers, and are separated into these subtypes by ultracentrifugation. Cell treatment with sphingomyelinase inhibitors shifted the protein content among KIT-EV subtypes, suggesting different biogenesis routes. Proteomic analysis revealed huMC KIT-EVs are enriched in proteins involved in signalling, immune responses, and cell migration, suggesting diverse biological functions, and indicated neoplastic huMCs disseminate KIT via shuttling in heterogeneous microvesicle- and exosome-like EVs. Further, selective KIT-immunocapture will enable the enrichment of specific huMC-derived EVs from complex human biosamples and facilitate an understanding of their in vivo functions and potential to serve as biomarkers of specific biological pathologies.
PXD026203	36240066	Regulation of CHK1 inhibitor resistance by a c-Rel and USP1 dependent pathway. 	Regulation of CHK1 inhibitor resistance by a c-Rel and USP1 dependent pathway C4PR_LIV	SPS-MS3, TMT, phosphorylation	Previously, we discovered that deletion of c-Rel in the Emicro-Myc mouse model of lymphoma results in earlier onset of disease, a finding that contrasted with the expected function of this NF-kappaB subunit in B-cell malignancies. Here we report that Emicro-Myc/cRel-/- cells have an unexpected and major defect in the CHK1 pathway. Total and phospho proteomic analysis revealed that Emicro-Myc/cRel-/- lymphomas highly resemble wild-type (WT) Emicro-Myc lymphomas treated with an acute dose of the CHK1 inhibitor (CHK1i) CCT244747. Further analysis demonstrated that this is a consequence of Emicro-Myc/cRel-/- lymphomas having lost expression of CHK1 protein itself, an effect that also results in resistance to CCT244747 treatment in vivo. Similar down-regulation of CHK1 protein levels was also seen in CHK1i resistant U2OS osteosarcoma and Huh7 hepatocellular carcinoma cells. Further investigation revealed that the deubiquitinase USP1 regulates CHK1 proteolytic degradation and that its down-regulation in our model systems is responsible, at least in part, for these effects. We demonstrate that treating WT Emicro-Myc lymphoma cells with the USP1 inhibitor ML323 was highly effective at reducing tumour burden in vivo. Targeting USP1 activity may thus be an alternative therapeutic strategy in MYC-driven tumours.
PXD034866	36240294	Mechano-covalent protection of coagulation factor VIII by von Willebrand factor. 	Mechanoâ€covalent protection 1 of procoagulant factor VIII by von Willebrand factor	cysteines, disulphide bonds, factor FVIII, von Willebrand factor	von Willebrand factor (VWF) is the protective carrier of procoagulant factor VIII (FVIII) in the shear forces of the circulation, prolonging its half-life and delivering it to the developing thrombus. Using force spectroscopy, VWF-FVIII complex formation is characterized by catch-bond behavior in which force first decelerates then accelerates bond dissociation. Patients with mutations in VWF at the FVIII binding site phenocopies hemophilia A and the most common mutations are of cysteine residues involving multiple disulfide bonds. From differential cysteine alkylation and mass spectrometry experiments, 13 VWF disulfide bonds at the FVIII binding site were found to exist in formed and unformed states, and binding of FVIII results in partial formation of 12 of the VWF bonds. Force spectroscopy studies indicate that the VWF-FVIII bond stiffens in response to force and this feature of the interaction is ablated when VWF disulfide bonds are prevented from forming, resulting in slip-only bond behavior. Exposure of VWF to pathological fluid shear forces ex vivo and in vivo causes partial cleavage of all 13 disulfide bonds, further supporting their malleable nature. These findings demonstrate that FVIII binding to VWF involves dynamic changes in the covalent states of several VWF disulfides that are required for productive interaction in physiological shear forces.
PXD036975	36241911	Rapid differentiation of hiPSCs into functional oligodendrocytes using an OLIG2 synthetic modified messenger RNA. 	Rapid differentiation of hiPSCs into functional oligodendrocytes using an OLIG2 synthetic modified messenger RNARapid differentiation of hiPSCs into functional oligodendrocytes using an OLIG2 synthetic modified messenger RNA	OLIG2, cell transplantation, human pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs), oligodendrocytes, synthetic modified messenger RNA (smRNA)	Transcription factors (TFs) have been introduced to drive the highly efficient differentiation of human-induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) into lineage-specific oligodendrocytes (OLs). However, effective strategies currently rely mainly on genome-integrating viruses. Here we show that a synthetic modified messenger RNA (smRNA)-based reprogramming method that leads to the generation of transgene-free OLs has been developed. An smRNA encoding a modified form of OLIG2, in which the serine 147 phosphorylation site is replaced with alanine, OLIG2(S147A), is designed to reprogram hiPSCs into OLs. We demonstrate that repeated administration of the smRNA encoding OLIG2 (S147A) lead to higher and more stable protein expression. Using the single-mutant OLIG2 smRNA morphogen, we establish a 6-day smRNA transfection protocol, and glial induction lead to rapid NG2(+) OL progenitor cell (OPC) generation (>70% purity) from hiPSC. The smRNA-induced NG2(+) OPCs can mature into functional OLs in vitro and promote remyelination in vivo. Taken together, we present a safe and efficient smRNA-driven strategy for hiPSC differentiation into OLs, which may be utilized for therapeutic OPC/OL transplantation in patients with neurodegenerative disease.
PXD033512	36243859	Targeting Myd88 using peptide-loaded mesenchymal stem cell membrane-derived synthetic vesicles to treat systemic inflammation. 	Engineered synthetic eukaryotic vesicles as anti-inflammatory drug delivery system to target Myd88	extracellular vesicles, mesenchymal stem cells, quantitative proteomics, therapeutic drug delivery	Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) secrete extracellular vesicles (EV) with a regenerative profile, and an increasing number of studies have focused on the utilization of MSC-EV for therapeutic drug delivery. However, EV are usually produced by cells in low quantities and are packed with numerous cytoplasmic components, which may be unfavorable for further drug loading. In this study, we developed a simple process for generating membrane vesicles directly from the cells, which we refer to as synthetic eukaryotic vesicles (SyEV). We hypothesized that MSC-derived SyEV can be efficiently loaded with an anti-inflammatory drug and the loaded vesicles can strongly suppress the systemic inflammation induced by bacterial outer membrane vesicles (OMV). SyEV were generated from MSC membranes through serial extrusion of the cells, ionic stress, and subsequent vesiculation of the membrane sheets, leading to high yield and purity of the SyEV with few cytosolic components remaining. When these SyEV were given to macrophages or mice exposed to OMV, the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines was similarly attenuated comparable to treatment with natural EV. We then loaded the SyEV with large numbers of peptides targeting Myd88 and observed enhanced therapeutic potential of the loaded vesicles in OMV-induced macrophages. Further, in vivo experiments showed that the peptide-encapsulated MSC-SyEV suppressed cytokine production synergistically. Taken together, these findings suggest that SyEV-based therapeutics is a highly interesting platform for delivering an advanced therapeutic drug for the treatment of systemic inflammation without severe side effects.
PXD034781	36244450	N-glycosylation of mannose receptor (CD206) regulates glycan binding by C-type lectin domains. 	Mannose receptor (CD206) N-glycosylation	Mannose receptor, N-linked glycosylation, O-linked glycosylation, glycan microarray, glycobiology, glycoproteomics, glycosylation, lectin	The macrophage mannose receptor (MR, CD206) is a transmembrane endocytic lectin receptor, expressed in selected immune and endothelial cells, and is involved in immunity and maintaining homeostasis. Eight of the ten extracellular domains of the MR are C-type lectin domains (CTLDs) which mediate the binding of mannose, fucose, and GlcNAc in a calcium-dependent manner. Previous studies indicated that self-glycosylation of MR regulates its glycan binding. To further explore this structure-function relationship, we studied herein a recombinant version of mouse MR CTLD4-7 fused to human Fc-portion of IgG (MR-Fc). The construct was expressed in different glycosylation-mutant cell lines to study the influence of differential glycosylation on receptor glycan-binding properties. We conducted site-specific N- and O-glycosylation analysis and glycosylation site characterization using mass spectrometry by which several novel O-glycosylation sites were identified in mouse MR and confirmed in human full-length MR. This information guided experiments evaluating the receptor functionality by glycan microarray analysis in combination with glycan-modifying enzymes. Treatment of active MR-Fc with combinations of exoglycosidases, including neuraminidase and galactosidases, resulted in the loss of trans-binding (binding of MR CTLDs to non-MR glycans), due to unmasking of terminal, nonreducing GlcNAc in N-glycans of the MR CTLDs. Regalactosylation of N-glycans rescues mannose binding by MR-Fc. Our results indicate that glycans within the MR CTLDs act as a regulatory switch by masking and unmasking self-ligands, including terminal, nonreducing GlcNAc in N-glycans, which could control MR activity in a tissue- and cell-specific manner or which potentially affect bacterial pathogenesis in an immunomodulatory fashion.
PXD031164	36245278	An apical membrane complex for triggering rhoptry exocytosis and invasion in Toxoplasma. 	Identification of novel rhoptry secretion factors in Toxoplasma gondii _ ND12	Crmp, Toxoplasma, host invasion, rhoptry, secretion	Apicomplexan parasites possess secretory organelles called rhoptries that undergo regulated exocytosis upon contact with the host. This process is essential for the parasitic lifestyle of these pathogens and relies on an exocytic machinery sharing structural features and molecular components with free-living ciliates. However, how the parasites coordinate exocytosis with host interaction is unknown. Here, we performed a Tetrahymena-based transcriptomic screen to uncover novel exocytic factors in Ciliata and conserved in Apicomplexa. We identified membrane-bound proteins, named CRMPs, forming part of a large complex essential for rhoptry secretion and invasion in Toxoplasma. Using cutting-edge imaging tools, including expansion microscopy and cryo-electron tomography, we show that, unlike previously described rhoptry exocytic factors, TgCRMPs are not required for the assembly of the rhoptry secretion machinery and only transiently associate with the exocytic site-prior to the invasion. CRMPs and their partners contain putative host cell-binding domains, and CRMPa shares similarities with GPCR proteins. Collectively our data imply that the CRMP complex acts as a host-molecular sensor to ensure that rhoptry exocytosis occurs when the parasite contacts the host cell.
PXD034825	36246270	Skin-to-blood pH shift triggers metabolome and proteome global remodelling in Staphylococcus epidermidis. 	Proteomic analysis of a commensal Staphylococcus epidermidis strain in different pH conditions.	adaptation, bacterium, blood, pH, pathogen, skin, transition	Staphylococcus epidermidis is one of the most common bacteria of the human skin microbiota. Despite its role as a commensal, S. epidermidis has emerged as an opportunistic pathogen, associated with 80% of medical devices related infections. Moreover, these bacteria are extremely difficult to treat due to their ability to form biofilms and accumulate resistance to almost all classes of antimicrobials. Thus new preventive and therapeutic strategies are urgently needed. However, the molecular mechanisms associated with S. epidermidis colonisation and disease are still poorly understood. A deeper understanding of the metabolic and cellular processes associated with response to environmental factors characteristic of SE ecological niches in health and disease might provide new clues on colonisation and disease processes. Here we studied the impact of pH conditions, mimicking the skin pH (5.5) and blood pH (7.4), in a S. epidermidis commensal strain by means of next-generation proteomics and (1)H NMR-based metabolomics. Moreover, we evaluated the metabolic changes occurring during a sudden pH change, simulating the skin barrier break produced by a catheter. We found that exposure of S. epidermidis to skin pH induced oxidative phosphorylation and biosynthesis of peptidoglycan, lipoteichoic acids and betaine. In contrast, at blood pH, the bacterial assimilation of monosaccharides and its oxidation by glycolysis and fermentation was promoted. Additionally, several proteins related to virulence and immune evasion, namely extracellular proteases and membrane iron transporters were more abundant at blood pH. In the situation of an abrupt skin-to-blood pH shift we observed the decrease in the osmolyte betaine and changes in the levels of several metabolites and proteins involved in cellular redoxl homeostasis. Our results suggest that at the skin pH S. epidermidis cells are metabolically more active and adhesion is promoted, while at blood pH, metabolism is tuned down and cells have a more virulent profile. pH increase during commensal-to-pathogen conversion appears to be a critical environmental signal to the remodelling of the S. epidermidis metabolism toward a more pathogenic state. Targeting S. epidermidis proteins induced by pH 7.4 and promoting the acidification of the medical device surface or surrounding environment might be new strategies to treat and prevent S. epidermidis infections.
PXD033867	36246930	Proteome profiling of whole plasma and plasma-derived extracellular vesicles facilitates the detection of tissue biomarkers in the non-obese diabetic mouse. 	Proteome profiling of whole plasma and plasma-derived extracellular vesicles facilitates the detection of tissue biomarkers in the non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse	Biomarkers, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, non-obese diabetic (NOD) mouse, plasma, type 1 diabetes	The mechanism by which pancreatic beta cells are destroyed in type 1 diabetes (T1D) remains to be fully understood. Recent observations indicate that the disease may arise because of different pathobiological mechanisms (endotypes). The discovery of one or several protein biomarkers measurable in readily available liquid biopsies (e.g. blood plasma) during the pre-diabetic period may enable personalized disease interventions. Recent studies have shown that extracellular vesicles (EVs) are a source of tissue proteins in liquid biopsies. Using plasma samples collected from pre-diabetic non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice (an experimental model of T1D) we addressed if combined analysis of whole plasma samples and plasma-derived EV fractions increases the number of unique proteins identified by mass spectrometry (MS) compared to the analysis of whole plasma samples alone. LC-MS/MS analysis of plasma samples depleted of abundant proteins and subjected to peptide fractionation identified more than 2300 proteins, while the analysis of EV-enriched plasma samples identified more than 600 proteins. Of the proteins detected in EV-enriched samples, more than a third were not identified in whole plasma samples and many were classified as either tissue-enriched or of tissue-specific origin. In conclusion, parallel profiling of EV-enriched plasma fractions and whole plasma samples increases the overall proteome depth and facilitates the discovery of tissue-enriched proteins in plasma. If applied to plasma samples collected longitudinally from the NOD mouse or from models with other pathobiological mechanisms, the integrated proteome profiling scheme described herein may be useful for the discovery of new and potentially endotype specific biomarkers in T1D.
PXD021094	36246972	Cleavage of AUF1 by Coxsackievirus B Affects DDX5 Regulatory on Viral Replication through iTRAQ Proteomics Analysis. 	Proteomic profiles of control, AUF1-overexpressed, and CVB3-infected HeLa cells	AUF1, Human HeLa cells, LC-MS, lysate	Coxsackievirus B (CVB) 3C protease (3C(pro)) plays a specific cleavage role on AU-rich binding factor (AUF1, also called hnRNP D), which consequently disputes the regulation of AUF1 on downstream molecules. In our study, the iTRAQ approach was first used to quantify the differentially expressed cellular proteins in AUF1-overexpressing HeLa cells, which provides straightforward insight into the role of AUF1 during viral infection. A total of 1,290 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), including 882 upregulated and 408 downregulated proteins, were identified. The DEPs are involved in a variety of cellular processes via GO terms, protein-protein interactions, and a series of further bioinformatics analyses. Among the DEPs, some demonstrated important roles in cellular metabolism. In particular, DDX5 was further verified to be negatively regulated by AUF1 and increased in CVB-infected cells, which in turn promoted CVB replication. These findings provide potential novel ideas for exploring new antiviral therapy targets.
PXD028152	36247154	Differential plasma proteomes of the patients with Opisthorchiasis viverrini and cholangiocarcinoma identify a polymeric immunoglobulin receptor as a potential biomarker. 	Serum proteomics analysis of CCA	cca, orbitrap, plasma, serum	In Southeast Asian countries, nitrosamine compounds and the liver fluke Opisthorchis viverrini have long been identified as carcinogens for cholangiocarcinoma (CHCA). In order to effectively treat O. viverrini infections and prevent the development of CHCA, methods for disease detection are needed. This study aims to identify biomarkers for O. viverrini infection and CHCA. In the discovery phase, technical triplicates of five pooled plasma pools (10 plasma each) of healthy control subjects (noOVCCA), O. viverrini subjects (OV), and cholangiocarcinoma subjects (CCA), underwent solution-based digestion, with the label-free method, using a Thermo Scientific(TM) Q Exactive(TM) HF hybrid quadrupole-Orbitrap mass spectrometer and UltiMate 300 LC systems. The noOVCCA, OV, and CCA groups demonstrated different profiles and were clustered, as illustrated by PCA and heat map analysis. The STRING and reactome analysis showed that both OV and CCA groups up-regulated proteins targeting immune system-related proteins. Differential proteomic profiles, S100A9, and polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (PIGR) were specifically expressed in the CCA group. During the validation phase, another 50 plasma samples were validated via the PIGR sandwich ELISA. Using PIGR >1.559 ng/ml as a cut-off point, 78.00% sensitivity, 71.00% specificity, and AUC = 0.8216, were obtained. It is sufficient to differentially diagnose cholangiocarcinoma patients from healthy patients and those with Opisthorchiasis viverrini. Hence, in this study, PIGR was identified and validated as a potential biomarker for CHCA. Plasma PIGR is suggested for screening CHCA, especially in an endemic region of O. viverrini infection.
PXD040712	36247556	Genome-wide association, RNA-seq and iTRAQ analyses identify candidate genes controlling radicle length of wheat. 	iTRAQ analyses identify candidate genes controlling radical length of wheat	GWAS analysis, RNA-seq analysis, iTRAQ analysis, radicle length, wheat (Triticum aestivum L.)	The radicle, present in the embryo of a seed, is the first root to emerge at germination, and its rapid growth is essential for establishment and survival of the seedling. However, there are few studies on the critical mechanisms underlying radicle and then radicle length in wheat seedlings, despite its importance as a food crop throughout the world. In the present study, 196 wheat accessions from the Huanghuai Wheat Region were screened to measure radicle length under 4 hydroponic culture environments over 3 years. Different expression genes and proteins (DEGs/DEPs) between accessions with extremely long [Yunong 949 (WRL1), Zhongyu 9,302 (WRL2)] and short roots [Yunong 201 (WRS1), Beijing 841 (WRS2)] were identified in 12 sets of root tissue samples by RNA-seq and iTRAQ (Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantification). Phenotypic results showed that the elongation zone was significantly longer in root accessions with long roots compared to the short-rooted accessions. A genome-wide association study (GWAS) identified four stable chromosomal regions significantly associated with radicle length, among which 1A, 4A, and 7A chromosomes regions explained 7.17% to12.93% of the phenotypic variation. The omics studies identified the expression patterns of 24 DEGs/DEPs changed at both the transcriptional and protein levels. These DEGs/DEPs were mainly involved in carbon fixation in photosynthetic organisms, photosynthesis and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathways. TraesCS1A02G104100 and TraesCS2B02G519100 were involved in the biosynthesis of tricin-lignins in cell walls and may affect the extension of cell walls in the radicle elongation zone. A combination of GWAS and RNA-seq analyses revealed 19 DEGs with expression changes in the four accessions, among which, TraesCS1A02G422700 (a cysteine-rich receptor-like protein kinase 6, CRK6) also showed upregulation in the comparison group by RNA-seq, iTRAQ, and qRT-PCR. BSMV-mediated gene silencing also showed that TaCRK6 improves root development in wheat. Our data suggest that TaCRK6 is a candidate gene regulating radicle length in wheat.
PXD024951	36247839	Cryptococcus neoformans releases proteins during intracellular residence that affect the outcome of the fungal-macrophage interaction. 	Cryptococcus neoformans proteins during fungal-macrophage interaction	Cryptococcus neoformans, fungi, host-pathogen interactions	Cryptococcus neoformans is a facultative intracellular pathogen that can replicate and disseminate in mammalian macrophages. In this study, we analyzed fungal proteins identified in murine macrophage-like cells after infection with C. neoformans. To accomplish this, we developed a protocol to identify proteins released from cryptococcal cells inside macrophage-like cells; we identified 127 proteins of fungal origin in infected macrophage-like cells. Among the proteins identified was urease, a known virulence factor, and others such as transaldolase and phospholipase D, which have catalytic activities that could contribute to virulence. This method provides a straightforward methodology to study host-pathogen interactions. We chose to study further Yeast Oligomycin Resistance (Yor1), a relatively uncharacterized protein belonging to the large family of ATP binding cassette transporter (ABC transporters). These transporters belong to a large and ancient protein family found in all extant phyla. While ABC transporters have an enormous diversity of functions across varied species, in pathogenic fungi they are better studied as drug efflux pumps. Analysis of C. neoformans yor1Delta strains revealed defects in nonlytic exocytosis, capsule size, and dimensions of extracellular vesicles, when compared to wild-type strains. We detected no difference in growth rates and cell body size. Our results indicate that C. neoformans releases a large suite of proteins during macrophage infection, some of which can modulate fungal virulence and are likely to affect the fungal-macrophage interaction.
PXD031462	36248738	Differential N-terminal processing of beta and gamma actin. 	Different roles of gamma- and beta-actin in neuronal functions	actin, brain, retina	Cytoplasmic beta- and gamma-actin are ubiquitously expressed in every eukaryotic cell. They are encoded by different genes, but their amino acid sequences differ only by four conservative substitutions at the N-termini, making it difficult to dissect their individual regulation. Here, we analyzed actin from cultured cells and tissues by mass spectrometry and found that beta, unlike gamma actin, undergoes sequential removal of N-terminal Asp residues, leading to truncated actin species found in both F- and G-actin preparations. This processing affects up to ~3% of beta actin in different cell types. We used CRISPR/Cas-9 in cultured cells to delete two candidate enzymes capable of mediating this type of processing. This deletion abolishes most of the beta actin N-terminal processing and results in changes in F-actin levels, cell spreading, filopodia formation, and cell migration. Our results demonstrate previously unknown isoform-specific actin regulation that can potentially affect actin functions in cells.
PXD027316	36248901	Complement membrane attack complex is an immunometabolic regulator of NLRP3 activation and IL-18 secretion in human macrophages. 	Sublytic membrane attack complex drives glycolysis and mitochondrial dysfunction with inflammatory consequences in human monocyte-derived macrophages	QExactive, glycolysis upregulation, membrane attack complex	The complement system is an ancient and critical part of innate immunity. Recent studies have highlighted novel roles of complement beyond lysis of invading pathogens with implications in regulating the innate immune response, as well as contributing to metabolic reprogramming of T-cells, synoviocytes as well as cells in the CNS. These findings hint that complement can be an immunometabolic regulator, but whether this is also the case for the terminal step of the complement pathway, the membrane attack complex (MAC) is not clear. In this study we focused on determining whether MAC is an immunometabolic regulator of the innate immune response in human monocyte-derived macrophages. Here, we uncover previously uncharacterized metabolic changes and mitochondrial dysfunction occurring downstream of MAC deposition. These alterations in glycolytic flux and mitochondrial morphology and function mediate NLRP3 inflammasome activation, pro-inflammatory cytokine release and gasdermin D formation. Together, these data elucidate a novel signalling cascade, with metabolic alterations at its center, in MAC-stimulated human macrophages that drives an inflammatory consequence in an immunologically relevant cell type.
PXD036837	36249745	Multi-omics analysis reveals the pathogenesis of db/db mice diabetic kidney disease and the treatment mechanisms of multi-bioactive compounds combination from Salvia miltiorrhiza. 	Proteomics of db/db mice kidney		Diabetic kidney disease (DKD) is a common diabetic complication. Salvia miltiorrhiza has significant therapeutic effects on diabetes complications, although the mechanism remains unclear. Here, biochemical indicators and pathological changes were used to screen out the optimal Salvia miltiorrhiza multi-bioactive compounds combination. Metabolomics, transcriptomics and proteomics were used to explore the pathogenesis of DKD. RT-PCR and parallel reaction monitoring targeted quantitative proteome analysis were utilized to investigate treatment mechanisms of the optimal Salvia miltiorrhiza multi-bioactive compounds combination. The db/db mice showed biochemical abnormalities and renal lesions. The possible metabolic pathways were steroid hormone biosynthesis and sphingolipid metabolism. The 727 differential genes found in transcriptomics were associated with biochemical indicators via gene network to finally screen 11 differential genes, which were mainly key genes of TGF-beta/Smad and PI3K/Akt/FoxO signaling pathways. Salvia miltiorrhiza multi-bioactive compounds combination could significantly regulate the Egr1, Pik3r3 and Col1a1 genes. 11 differentially expressed proteins involved in the two pathways were selected, of which 9 were significantly altered in db/db mice compared to db/m mice. Salvia miltiorrhiza multi-bioactive compounds combination could callback Q9DBM2, S4R1W1, Q91Y97, P47738, A8DUK4, and A2ARV4. In summary, Salvia miltiorrhiza multi-bioactive compounds combination may ameliorate kidney injury in diabetes through regulation of TGF-beta/Smad and PI3K/Akt/FoxO signaling pathways.
PXD036047	36250004	PUP-IT2 as an alternative strategy for PUP-IT proximity labeling. 	PUP-IT2 as an proximity labeling strategy	Ligase, Protein Labeling	PUP-IT is a proximity labeling method based on the prokaryotic enzyme PafA. PafA mediates the ligation of Pup, a small peptide, to the proximal proteins. It is different from other proximity labeling methods, such as BioID and APEX, in that both the enzyme and the labeling tag are proteins, which allows for potential in vivo applications. All proximity labeling involves the genetic fusion of the proximity labeling enzyme with the bait protein. However, PafA is a 55 kDa enzyme which sometimes interferes with the bait function. In this study, we tested an alternative proximity labeling strategy, PUP-IT2, in which only a small 7 kDa protein is fused to the bait protein. We examined the activity of PUP-IT2 in vitro and in cells. We also compared it with the original PUP-IT. Finally, we applied PUP-IT2 coupled mass spectrometry to map protein-protein interactions. Overall, we established a new way to use PUP-IT2 for proximity labeling, and this method may have a broad application.
PXD025748	36250733	Longitudinal Evaluation of Biomarkers in Wound Fluids from Venous Leg Ulcers and Split-thickness Skin Graft Donor Site Wounds Treated with a Protease-modulating Wound Dressing. 	Longitudinal evaluation of biomarkers in wound fluids of venous leg ulcers treated with a protease-modulating wound dressing	SureQuant, protease-modulating wound dressing, protein biomarker, venous leg ulcer, wound fluid	Venous leg ulcers represent a clinical challenge and impair the quality of life of patients. This study examines impaired wound healing in venous leg ulcers at the molecular level. Protein expression patterns for biomarkers were analysed in venous leg ulcer wound fluids from 57 patients treated with a protease-modulating polyacrylate wound dressing for 12 weeks, and compared with exudates from 10 acute split-thickness wounds. Wound healing improved in the venous leg ulcer wounds: 61.4% of the 57 patients with venous leg ulcer achieved a relative wound area reduction of >= 40%, and 50.9% of the total 57 patients achieved a relative wound area reduction of >= 60%. Within the first 14 days, abundances of S100A8, S100A9, neutrophil elastase, matrix metalloproteinase-2, and fibronectin in venous leg ulcer exudates decreased significantly and remained stable, yet higher than in acute wounds. Interleukin-1beta, tumour necrosis factor alpha, and matrix metalloproteinase-9 abundance ranges were similar in venous leg ulcers and acute wound fluids. Collagen (I) alpha1 abundance was higher in venous leg ulcer wound fluids and was not significantly regulated. Overall, significant biomarker changes occurred in the first 14 days before a clinically robust healing response in the venous leg ulcer cohort.
PXD032230	36250886	CGL160-mediated recruitment of the coupling factor CF1 is required for efficient thylakoid ATP synthase assembly, photosynthesis, and chloroplast development in Arabidopsis. 	Identification of AtCGL160 interacting partners	ATP synthase, Bruker, CO-IP, IMPACTII, LFQ, Thylakoid	Chloroplast ATP synthases consist of a membrane-spanning coupling factor (CFO) and a soluble coupling factor (CF1). It was previously demonstrated that CONSERVED ONLY IN THE GREEN LINEAGE160 (CGL160) promotes the formation of plant CFO and performs a similar function in the assembly of its c-ring to that of the distantly related bacterial Atp1/UncI protein. Here, we show that in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) the N-terminal portion of CGL160 (AtCGL160N) is required for late steps in CF1-CFO assembly. In plants that lacked AtCGL160N, CF1-CFO content, photosynthesis, and chloroplast development were impaired. Loss of AtCGL160N did not perturb c-ring formation, but led to a 10-fold increase in the numbers of stromal CF1 subcomplexes relative to that in the wild type. Co-immunoprecipitation and protein crosslinking assays revealed an association of AtCGL160 with CF1 subunits. Yeast two-hybrid assays localized the interaction to a stretch of AtCGL160N that binds to the DELSEED-containing CF1-beta subdomain. Since Atp1 of Synechocystis (Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803) could functionally replace the membrane domain of AtCGL160 in Arabidopsis, we propose that CGL160 evolved from a cyanobacterial ancestor and acquired an additional function in the recruitment of a soluble CF1 subcomplex, which is critical for the modulation of CF1-CFO activity and photosynthesis.
PXD033473	36251466	Allergen Content and Protease Activity in Milk Feeds from Mothers of Preterm Infants. 	Allergen Shedding in Human Milk from Mothers of Preterm Infants: Proteomic and Peptidomic Feasibility and Pilot Analysis	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), allergen, milk, native paptides	Rationale: There is little information regarding the allergen content of milk feeds in the preterm population. Previous studies have not performed a broad analysis of the allergenic peptide content and protease activity of milk feeds in this population. Methods: To evaluate feasibility, we initially performed mass spectrometry on 4 human milk (HM) samples (2 term and 2 preterm) from the Mommy's Milk Human Milk Biorepository (HMB) and analyzed the results against the University of Nebraska FASTA database and UniProt for a total of 2,211 protein sequences. We then further analyzed five samples from the Microbiome, Atopy, and Prematurity (MAP) study including peptidomic and protease activity analysis. Results: Each HMB sample had between 806 and 1,007 proteins, with 37-44 nonhuman proteins/sample encompassing 26 plant and animal species. In the preterm MAP samples, 784 digested nonhuman proteins were identified, 30 were nonbovine in origin. Proteins from 23 different species including aeroallergens, food, and contact allergens were identified. Protease activity was highest in HM samples without human milk fortifier and lowest in preterm formula. Conclusions: These findings represent the first preterm milk feed mass spectrometry and protease analysis with identification of known allergenic proteins to food, contact, and aeroallergens. These results raise questions of whether the composition of milk feeds in the neonatal intensive care unit impact the development of atopic disease in the preterm population and whether the complex interaction between allergens, proteases, and other HM components can serve to induce sensitization or tolerance to allergens in infants. Clinical Trial Registration Number: NCT04835935.
PXD035038	36251486	Identification and Validation of Yak (Bos grunniens) Frozen-Thawed Sperm Proteins Associated with Capacitation and the Acrosome Reaction. 	Identification and validation of yak (Bos grunniens) frozen-thawed sperm proteins associated with the capacitation and acrosome reaction	yak sperm capacitation acrosome reaction proteomic	To achieve fertilization, mammalian spermatozoa must undergo capacitation and the acrosome reaction (AR) within the female reproductive tract. However, the effects of cryopreservation on sperm maturation and fertilizing potential have yet to be established. To gain insight into changes in protein levels within sperm cells prepared for use in the context of fertilization, a comprehensive quantitative proteomic profiling approach was used to analyze frozen-thawed Ashidan yak spermatozoa under three sequential conditions: density gradient centrifugation-based purification, incubation in a capacitation medium, and treatment with the calcium ionophore A23187 to facilitate AR induction. In total, 3280 proteins were detected in these yak sperm samples, of which 3074 were quantified, with 68 and 32 being significantly altered following sperm capacitation and AR induction. Differentially abundant capacitation-related proteins were enriched in the metabolism and PPAR signaling pathways, while differentially abundant AR-related proteins were enriched in the AMPK signaling pathway. These data confirmed a role for superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) as a regulator of sperm capacitation while also offering indirect evidence that heat shock protein 90 alpha (HSP90AA1) regulates the AR. Together, these findings offer a means whereby sperm fertility-related marker proteins can be effectively identified. Data are available via Proteome Xchange with identifier PXD035038.
PXD024649	36251998	Deterministic programming of human pluripotent stem cells into microglia facilitates studying their role in health and disease. 	C21, human microglial cell proteome	Microglia	Microglia, the resident immune cells of the central nervous system (CNS), are derived from yolk-sac macrophages that populate the developing CNS during early embryonic development. Once established, the microglia population is self-maintained throughout life by local proliferation. As a scalable source of microglia-like cells (MGLs), we here present a forward programming protocol for their generation from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs). The transient overexpression of PU.1 and C/EBPbeta in hPSCs led to a homogenous population of mature microglia within 16 d. MGLs met microglia characteristics on a morphological, transcriptional, and functional level. MGLs facilitated the investigation of a human tauopathy model in cortical neuron-microglia cocultures, revealing a secondary dystrophic microglia phenotype. Single-cell RNA sequencing of microglia integrated into hPSC-derived cortical brain organoids demonstrated a shift of microglia signatures toward a more-developmental in vivo-like phenotype, inducing intercellular interactions promoting neurogenesis and arborization. Taken together, our microglia forward programming platform represents a tool for both reductionist studies in monocultures and complex coculture systems, including 3D brain organoids for the study of cellular interactions in healthy or diseased environments.
PXD029827	36252736	In-Depth Characterization of the Clostridioides difficile Phosphoproteome to Identify Ser/Thr Kinase Substrates. 	In-depth characterization of the Clostridioides difficile phosphoproteome to identify Ser/Thr kinases substrates	Clostridium difficile, Kinase, Phosphoproteomics, QExactive HF	Clostridioides difficile is the leading cause of postantibiotic diarrhea in adults. During infection, the bacterium must rapidly adapt to the host environment by using survival strategies. Protein phosphorylation is a reversible post-translational modification employed ubiquitously for signal transduction and cellular regulation. Hanks-type serine/threonine kinases (STKs) and serine/threonine phosphatases have emerged as important players in bacterial cell signaling and pathogenicity. C. difficile encodes two STKs (PrkC and CD2148) and one phosphatase. We optimized a titanium dioxide phosphopeptide enrichment approach to determine the phosphoproteome of C. difficile. We identified and quantified 2500 proteins representing 63% of the theoretical proteome. To identify STK and serine/threonine phosphatase targets, we then performed comparative large-scale phosphoproteomics of the WT strain and isogenic DeltaprkC, CD2148, Deltastp, and prkC CD2148 mutants. We detected 635 proteins containing phosphorylated peptides. We showed that PrkC is phosphorylated on multiple sites in vivo and autophosphorylates in vitro. We were unable to detect a phosphorylation for CD2148 in vivo, whereas this kinase was phosphorylated in vitro only in the presence of PrkC. Forty-one phosphoproteins were identified as phosphorylated under the control of CD2148, whereas 114 proteins were phosphorylated under the control of PrkC including 27 phosphoproteins more phosphorylated in the incrementstp mutant. We also observed enrichment for phosphothreonine among the phosphopeptides more phosphorylated in the Deltastp mutant. Both kinases targeted pathways required for metabolism, translation, and stress response, whereas cell division and peptidoglycan metabolism were more specifically controlled by PrkC-dependent phosphorylation in agreement with the phenotypes of the DeltaprkC mutant. Using a combination of approaches, we confirmed that FtsK was phosphorylated in vivo under the control of PrkC and that Spo0A was a substrate of PrkC in vitro. This study provides a detailed mapping of kinase-substrate relationships in C. difficile, paving the way for the identification of new biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
PXD031656	36253443	Cntnap2-dependent molecular networks in autism spectrum disorder revealed through an integrative multi-omics analysis. 	Cntnap2 KO mouse mPFC proteome for ASD	Cntnap2, mPFC	Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a major neurodevelopmental disorder in which patients present with core symptoms of social communication impairment, restricted interest, and repetitive behaviors. Although various studies have been performed to identify ASD-related mechanisms, ASD pathology is still poorly understood. CNTNAP2 genetic variants have been found that represent ASD genetic risk factors, and disruption of Cntnap2 expression has been associated with ASD phenotypes in mice. In this study, we performed an integrative multi-omics analysis by combining quantitative proteometabolomic data obtained with Cntnap2 knockout (KO) mice with multi-omics data obtained from ASD patients and forebrain organoids to elucidate Cntnap2-dependent molecular networks in ASD. To this end, a mass spectrometry-based proteometabolomic analysis of the medial prefrontal cortex in Cntnap2 KO mice led to the identification of Cntnap2-associated molecular features, and these features were assessed in combination with multi-omics data obtained on the prefrontal cortex in ASD patients to identify bona fide ASD cellular processes. Furthermore, a reanalysis of single-cell RNA sequencing data obtained from forebrain organoids derived from patients with CNTNAP2-associated ASD revealed that the aforementioned identified ASD processes were mainly linked to excitatory neurons. On the basis of these data, we constructed Cntnap2-associated ASD network models showing mitochondrial dysfunction, axonal impairment, and synaptic activity. Our results may shed light on the Cntnap2-dependent molecular networks in ASD.
PXD031366	36253480	Anaerobic oxidation of propane coupled to nitrate reduction by a lineage within the class Symbiobacteriia. 	Enrichment of C3 Nitrate microorganisms	C3 nitrate	Anaerobic microorganisms are thought to play a critical role in regulating the flux of short-chain gaseous alkanes (SCGAs; including ethane, propane and butane) from terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems to the atmosphere. Sulfate has been confirmed to act as electron acceptor supporting microbial anaerobic oxidation of SCGAs, yet several other energetically more favourable acceptors co-exist with these gases in anaerobic environments. Here, we show that a bioreactor seeded with biomass from a wastewater treatment facility can perform anaerobic propane oxidation coupled to nitrate reduction to dinitrogen gas and ammonium. The bioreactor was operated for more than 1000 days, and we used (13)C- and (15)N-labelling experiments, metagenomic, metatranscriptomic, metaproteomic and metabolite analyses to characterize the microbial community and the metabolic processes. The data collectively suggest that a species representing a novel order within the bacterial class Symbiobacteriia is responsible for the observed nitrate-dependent propane oxidation. The closed genome of this organism, which we designate as 'Candidatus Alkanivorans nitratireducens', encodes pathways for oxidation of propane to CO2 via fumarate addition, and for nitrate reduction, with all the key genes expressed during nitrate-dependent propane oxidation. Our results suggest that nitrate is a relevant electron sink for SCGA oxidation in anaerobic environments, constituting a new microbially-mediated link between the carbon and nitrogen cycles.
PXD029284	36255300	Statistical Evaluation of Metaproteomics and 16S rRNA Amplicon Sequencing Techniques for Study of Gut Microbiota Establishment in Infants with Cystic Fibrosis. 	Metaproteomic analysis of gut microbiota from 30 samples of cystic fibrosis infants	Metaproteomics, cystic fibrosis, gut microbiota, human proteins, microbial functions	Newborn screening for cystic fibrosis (CF) can identify affected but asymptomatic infants. The selection of omic technique for gut microbiota study is crucial due to both the small amount of feces available and the low microorganism load. Our aims were to compare the agreement between 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing and metaproteomics by a robust statistical analysis, including both presence and abundance of taxa, to describe the sequential establishment of the gut microbiota during the first year of life in a small size sample (8 infants and 28 fecal samples). The taxonomic assignations by the two techniques were similar, whereas certain discrepancies were observed in the abundance detection, mostly the lower predicted relative abundance of Bifidobacterium and the higher predicted relative abundance of certain Firmicutes and Proteobacteria by amplicon sequencing. During the first months of life, the CF gut microbiota is characterized by a significant enrichment of Ruminococcus gnavus, the expression of certain virulent bacterial traits, and the detection of human inflammation-related proteins. Metaproteomics provides information on composition and functionality, as well as data on host-microbiome interactions. Its strength is the identification and quantification of Actinobacteria and certain classes of Firmicutes, but alpha diversity indices are not comparable to those of amplicon sequencing. Both techniques detected an aberrant microbiota in our small cohort of infants with CF during their first year of life, dominated by the enrichment of R. gnavus within a human inflammatory environment. IMPORTANCE In recent years, some techniques have been incorporated for the study of microbial ecosystems, being 16S rRNA gene sequencing being the most widely used. Metaproteomics provides the advantage of identifying the interaction between microorganisms and human cells, but the available databases are less extensive as well as imprecise. Few studies compare the statistical differences between the two techniques to define the composition of an ecosystem. Our work shows that the two methods are comparable in terms of microorganism identification but provide different results in alpha diversity analysis. On the other hand, we have studied newborns with cystic fibrosis, for whom we have described the establishment of an intestinal ecosystem marked by the inflammatory response of the host and the enrichment of Ruminococcus gnavus.
PXD026538	36256644	Quantification of cytosol and membrane proteins in rumen epithelium of sheep with low or high CH4 emission phenotype. 	Quantitative Proteome of enzymatically isolated rumen epithelium in sheep with low or high methane emission.	Rumen epithelium, SWATH-MS, Sheep, membrane proteome	BACKGROUND: Ruminant livestock are a major contributor to Australian agricultural sector carbon emissions. Variation in methane (CH4) produced from enteric microbial fermentation of feed in the reticulo-rumen of sheep differs with different digestive functions. METHOD: We isolated rumen epithelium enzymatically to extract membrane and cytosol proteins from sheep with high (H) and low (L) CH4 emission. Protein abundance was quantified using SWATH-mass spectrometry. RESULTS: The research found differences related to the metabolism of glucose, lactate and processes of cell defence against microbes in sheep from each phenotype. Enzymes in the methylglyoxal pathway, a side path of glycolysis, resulting in D-lactate production, differed in abundance. In the H CH4 rumen epithelium the enzyme hydroxyacylglutathione hydrolase (HAGH) was 2.56 fold higher in abundance, whereas in the L CH4 epithelium lactate dehydrogenase D (LDHD) was 1.93 fold higher. Malic enzyme 1 which converts D-lactate to pyruvate via the tricarboxylic cycle was 1.57 fold higher in the L CH4 phenotype. Other proteins that are known to regulate cell defence against microbes had differential abundance in the epithelium of each phenotype. CONCLUSION: Differences in the abundance of enzymes involved in the metabolism of glucose were associated with H and L CH4 phenotype sheep. Potentially this represents an opportunity to use protein markers in the rumen epithelium to select low CH4 emitting sheep.
PXD036019	36257322	Subunit composition, molecular environment, and activation of native TRPC channels encoded by their interactomes. 	Subunit composition, molecular environment and activation of native TRPC channels encoded by their interactomes	TRPC, brain, rat	In the mammalian brain TRPC channels, a family of Ca(2+)-permeable cation channels, are involved in a variety of processes from neuronal growth and synapse formation to transmitter release, synaptic transmission and plasticity. The molecular appearance and operation of native TRPC channels, however, remained poorly understood. Here, we used high-resolution proteomics to show that TRPC channels in the rodent brain are macro-molecular complexes of more than 1 MDa in size that result from the co-assembly of the tetrameric channel core with an ensemble of interacting proteins (interactome). The core(s) of TRPC1-, C4-, and C5-containing channels are mostly heteromers with defined stoichiometries for each subtype, whereas TRPC3, C6, and C7 preferentially form homomers. In addition, TRPC1/C4/C5 channels may co-assemble with the metabotropic glutamate receptor mGluR1, thus guaranteeing both specificity and reliability of channel activation via the phospholipase-Ca(2+) pathway. Our results unveil the subunit composition of native TRPC channels and resolve the molecular details underlying their activation.
PXD033128	36259427	Indolin-2-one Nitroimidazole Antibiotics Exhibit an Unexpected Dual Mode of Action. 	Indolin-2-one nitroimidazole antibiotics exhibit an unexpected dual mode of action	ABPP, antibiotics, target-ID	Nitroimidazoles such as metronidazole are used as anti-infective drugs against anaerobic bacteria. Upon in vivo reduction of the nitro group, reactive radicals damage DNA and proteins in the absence of oxygen. Unexpectedly, a recent study of nitroimidazoles linked to an indolin-2-one substituent revealed potent activities against aerobic bacteria. This suggests a different, yet undiscovered mode of action (MoA). To decipher this MoA, we first performed whole proteome analysis of compound-treated cells, revealing an upregulation of bacteriophage-associated proteins, indicative of DNA damage. Since DNA binding of the compound was not observed, we applied activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) for direct target discovery. Labeling studies revealed topoisomerase IV, an essential enzyme for DNA replication, as the most enriched hit in pathogenic Staphylococcus aureus cells. Subsequent topoisomerase assays confirmed the inhibition of DNA decatenation in the presence of indolin-2-one nitroimidazole with an activity comparable to ciprofloxacin, a known inhibitor of this enzyme. Furthermore, we determined significantly increased redox potentials of indolin-2-one nitroimidazoles compared to classic 5-nitroimidazoles such as metronidazole, which facilitates in vivo reduction. Overall, this study unravels that indolin-2-one-functionalized nitroimidazoles feature an unexpected dual MoA: first, the direct inhibition of the topoisomerase IV and second the classic nitroimidazole MoA of reductive bioactivation leading to damaging reactive species. Importantly, this dual MoA impairs resistance development. Given the clinical application of this compound class, the new mechanism could be a starting point to mitigate resistance.
PXD033085	36259662	Phosphosites of the yeast centrosome component Spc110 contribute to cell cycle progression and mitotic exit. 	Phosphosites of the yeast centrosome component Spc110 contribute to mitotic exit 	Cdc14, MEN, microtubule, mitosis, pericentrin, phosphorylation, spindle, spindle pole body, tubulin, yeast.	Spc110 is an essential component of the spindle pole body (SPB), the yeast equivalent of the centrosome, that recruits the gamma-tubulin complex to the nuclear side of the SPB to produce the microtubules that form the mitotic spindle. Here, we identified phosphosites S11 and S36 in maternally originated Spc110 and explored their functions in vivo. Yeast expressing non-phosphorylatable Spc110S11A had a distinct spindle phenotype characterised by higher levels of alpha-tubulin, which was frequently asymmetrically distributed between the two SPBs. Furthermore, expression of the double mutant Spc110S11AS36A had a delayed cell cycle progression. Specifically, the final steps of mitosis were delayed in Spc110S11AS36A cells, including expression and degradation of the mitotic cyclin Clb2, disassembling the mitotic spindle and re-localizing Cdc14 to the nucleoli, resulting in late mitotic exit and entry in G1. Thus, we propose that Spc110 phosphorylation at S11 and S36 is required to regulate timely cell cycle progression in budding yeast. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.
PXD029527	36259929	A Dynamic rRNA Ribomethylome Drives Stemness in Acute Myeloid Leukemia. 	The dynamic rRNA ribomethylome drives stemness in acute myeloid leukemia	2'-O-methylation, AHA, AML, FBL, leukemia, nascent chain proteomics, rRNA	The development and regulation of malignant self-renewal remain unresolved issues. Here, we provide biochemical, genetic, and functional evidence that dynamics in ribosomal RNA (rRNA) 2'-O-methylation regulate leukemia stem cell (LSC) activity in vivo. A comprehensive analysis of the rRNA 2'-O-methylation landscape of 94 patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) revealed dynamic 2'-O-methylation specifically at exterior sites of ribosomes. The rRNA 2'-O-methylation pattern is closely associated with AML development stage and LSC gene expression signature. Forced expression of the 2'-O-methyltransferase fibrillarin (FBL) induced an AML stem cell phenotype and enabled engraftment of non-LSC leukemia cells in NSG mice. Enhanced 2'-O-methylation redirected the ribosome translation program toward amino acid transporter mRNAs enriched in optimal codons and subsequently increased intracellular amino acid levels. Methylation at the single site 18S-guanosine 1447 was instrumental for LSC activity. Collectively, our work demonstrates that dynamic 2'-O-methylation at specific sites on rRNAs shifts translational preferences and controls AML LSC self-renewal. SIGNIFICANCE: We establish the complete rRNA 2'-O-methylation landscape in human AML. Plasticity of rRNA 2'-O-methylation shifts protein translation toward an LSC phenotype. This dynamic process constitutes a novel concept of how cancers reprogram cell fate and function. This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 247.
PXD020207	36260637	Reductions in bacterial viability stimulate the production of Extra-intestinal Pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC) cytoplasm-carrying Extracellular Vesicles (EVs). 	Proteome Analysis of the Extra-intestinal Pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC) Extracellular Vesicles (EVs)	E. coli, Extracellular Vesicles	Extra-intestinal Pathogenic Escherichia coli (ExPEC) is defined as an extra-intestinal foodborne pathogen, and several dominant sequence types (STs) ExPEC isolates are highly virulent, with zoonotic potential. Bacteria extracellular vesicles (EVs) carry specific subsets of molecular cargo, which affect various biological processes in bacteria and host. The mechanisms of EVs formation in ExPEC remains to be elucidated. Here, the purified EVs of ExPEC strains of different STs were isolated with ultracentrifugation processes. A comparative analysis of the strain proteomes showed that cytoplasmic proteins accounted for a relatively high proportion of the proteins among ExPEC EVs. The proportion of cytoplasm-carrying vesicles in ExPEC EVs was calculated with a simple green fluorescent protein (GFP) expression method. The RecA/LexA-dependent SOS response is a critical mediator of generation of cytoplasm-carrying EVs. The SOS response activates the expression of prophage-associated endolysins, Epel1, Epel2.1, and Epel2.2, which triggered cell lysis, increasing the production of ExPEC cytoplasm-carrying EVs. The repressor LexA controlled directly the expression of these endolysins by binding to the SOS boxes in the endolysin promoter regions. Reducing bacterial viability stimulated the production of ExPEC EVs, especially cytoplasm-carrying EVs. The imbalance in cell division caused by exposure to H2O2, the deletion of ftsK genes, or t6A synthesis defects activated the RecA/LexA-dependent SOS response, inducing the expression of endolysins, and thus increasing the proportion of cytoplasm-carrying EVs in the total ExPEC EVs. Antibiotics, which decreased bacterial viability, also increase the production of ExPEC cytoplasm-carrying EVs through the SOS response. Changes in the proportion of cytoplasm-carrying EVs affected the total DNA content of ExPEC EVs. When macrophages are exposed to a higher proportion of cytoplasm-carrying vesicles, ExPEC EVs were more cytotoxic to macrophages, accompanied with more-severe mitochondrial disruption and a higher level of induced intrinsic apoptosis. In summary, we offered comprehensive insight into the proteome analysis of ExPEC EVs. This study demonstrated the novel formation mechanisms of E. coli cytoplasm-carrying EVs.
PXD026586	36261283	The SYNGAP1 3'UTR Variant in ALS Patients Causes Aberrant SYNGAP1 Splicing and Dendritic Spine Loss by Recruiting HNRNPK. 	SynGAP variant from Japanese ALS cohort alters the recruitment of RNA binding proteins	ALS, FUS, SynGAP, iPSC, motor neuron	Fused in sarcoma (FUS) is a pathogenic RNA-binding protein in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We previously reported that FUS stabilizes Synaptic Ras-GTPase activating protein 1 (Syngap1) mRNA at its 3' untranslated region (UTR) and maintains spine maturation. To elucidate the pathologic roles of this mechanism in ALS patients, we identified the SYNGAP1 3'UTR variant rs149438267 in seven (four males and three females) out of 807 ALS patients at the FUS binding site from a multicenter cohort in Japan. Human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived motor neurons with the SYNGAP1 variant showed aberrant splicing, increased isoform alpha1 levels, and decreased isoform gamma levels, which caused dendritic spine loss. Moreover, the SYNGAP1 variant excessively recruited FUS and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (HNRNPK), and antisense oligonucleotides (ASOs) blocking HNRNPK altered aberrant splicing and ameliorated dendritic spine loss. These data suggest that excessive recruitment of RNA-binding proteins, especially HNRNPK, as well as changes in SYNGAP1 isoforms, are crucial for spine formation in motor neurons.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT It is not yet known which RNAs cause the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We previously reported that Fused in sarcoma (FUS), a pathogenic RNA-binding protein in ALS, stabilizes synaptic Ras-GTPase activating protein 1 (Syngap1) mRNA at its 3' untranslated region (UTR) and maintains dendritic spine maturation. To elucidate whether this mechanism is crucial for ALS, we identified the SYNGAP1 3'UTR variant rs149438267 at the FUS binding site. Human-induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived motor neurons with the SYNGAP1 variant showed aberrant splicing, which caused dendritic spine loss along with excessive recruitment of FUS and heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (HNRNPK). Our findings that dendritic spine loss is because of excess recruitment of RNA-binding proteins provide a basis for the future exploration of ALS-related RNA-binding proteins.
PXD032735	36262184	The salmonella effector Hcp modulates infection response, and affects salmonella adhesion and egg contamination incidences in ducks. 	Quantitative proteomics of Hcp-mediated Salmonella Enteritidis in ducks (Anas platyrhynchos)	LC-MS, Salmonella Enteritidis, duck	Salmonella Entertidis (SE) often causes persistent infections and egg contamination in laying ducks. Hcp, the core structural and effector proteins of the Type VI Secretion System (T6SS) in SE, contributes to bacterial invasion, adhesion and virulence. However, little is known about the effect of Hcp on the host's infection responses and egg contamination incidences in duck. Herein, we generated an hcp deletion mutant SE MY1^hcp and detected its ability to invade duck granulosa cells (dGCs) and contaminate eggs. In comparison with MY1-infected group, the SE adhesion decreased by 15.96% in MY1^hcp-infected dGCs, and the apoptosis in MY1^hcp-infected dGCs decreased by 26.58% and 30.99% at 3 and 6 hours postinfection, respectively. However, the expression levels of immunogenic genes TLR4, NOD1, TNFalpha, IL-1beta and proinflammatory cytokines IL-6, IL-1beta, TNF-alpha release were markedly lower in the dGCs inoculated with MY1^hcp than that of the wild type. Besides, the laying ducks were challenged with MY1 or MY1^hcp in vivo, respectively. The lower egg production and higher egg contamination were observed in MY1-infected ducks in comparison with MY1^hcp-infected birds. Furthermore, the host's infection response of differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) to Salmonella effector Hcp was identified using quantitative proteomics. A total of 164 DAPs were identified between the MY1- and MY1^hcp-infected cells, which were mainly engaged in the immune, hormone synthesis, cell proliferation and cell apoptotic process. Among them, STAT3, AKT1, MAPK9, MAPK14, and CREBBP were the center of the regulatory network, which might serve as key host response regulators to bacterial Hcp. In conclusion, we demonstrated that effector Hcp contributed to not only SE invasion, induction of dGCs apoptosis, and trigger of immune responses, but also enhanced contamination incidences. Also, the STAT3, AKT1, MAPK9, MAPK14, and CREBBP were identified as host's infection response regulators of bacterial Hcp in duck. Overall, these results not only offered a novel evidence of SE ovarian transmission but also identified some promising candidate regulators during SE infection.
PXD034896	36262888	Proteomic analysis of s-acylated proteins in human retinal pigment epithelial cells and the role of palmitoylation of Niemann-Pick type C1 protein in cholesterol transport. 	Proteomic analysis of S-acylated proteins in human retinal pigment epithelial cells reveals the role of palmitoylation of Niemann-Pick type C1 protein in cholesterol transportation	Niemann-Pick type C1 protein, palmitoylation, retinal pigment epithelial cells	Palmitoylation is a dynamic process that regulates the activity of the modified proteins. Retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells play pivotal roles in the visual cycle and maintaining healthy photoreceptor cells. Dysfunctional RPE cells are often associated with degenerative retinal diseases. The aim of the study was to identify potentially palmitoylated proteins in human RPE cells. By using the detergent-resistant membrane, we found 312 potentially palmitoylated peptides which corresponded to 192 proteins in RPE cells, including 55 new candidate proteins which were not reported before. Gene enrichment analysis highlighted significant enrichment of palmitoylated proteins in cell-matrix adhesion, cell-cell recognition, protein cellular localization, and translation, among others. We further studied the effect of 3 potential palmitoylation sites (Cys 799, 900, and 816) of Niemann-Pick type C1 protein (NPC1) on cholesterol accumulation. We found that mutation of any single Cys alone had no significant effect on intracellular cholesterol accumulation while simultaneous mutation of Cys799 and 800 caused significant cholesterol accumulation in the late endosome. No further cholesterol accumulation was observed by adding another mutation at Cys 816. However, the mutation did not alter the cellular localization of the protein. Conclusion: PRE cells have an abundant number of palmitoylated proteins which are involved in cellular processes critical to visual function. The palmitoylation at Cys799 and 800 was needed for cholesterol export, but not the intracellular localization of NPC1.
PXD033835	36264121	A stress-inducible protein regulates drought tolerance and flowering time in Brachypodium and Arabidopsis. 	coimmunoprecipitation of BdRFS identifies putative itneracting proteins	Brachypodium, RFS	To cope with environmental stresses and ensure maximal reproductive success, plants have developed strategies to adjust the timing of their transition to reproductive growth. This has a substantial impact on the stress resilience of crops and ultimately on agricultural productivity. Here, we report a previously uncharacterized, plant-specific gene family designated as Regulator of Flowering and Stress (RFS). Overexpression of the BdRFS gene in Brachypodium distachyon delayed flowering, increased biomass accumulation, and promoted drought tolerance, whereas clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats/CRISPR-associated protein 9 (CRISPR/Cas9)-mediated knockout mutants exhibited opposite phenotypes. A double T-DNA insertional mutant in the two Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) homologs replicated the effects on flowering and water deprivation seen in the B. distachyon CRISPR knockout lines, highlighting the functional conservation of the family between monocots and dicots. Lipid analysis of B. distachyon and Arabidopsis revealed that digalactosyldiacylglycerol (DGDG) and phosphatidylcholine (PC) contents were significantly, and reciprocally, altered in overexpressor and knockout mutants. Importantly, alteration of C16:0-containing PC, a Flowering Locus T-interacting lipid, associated with flowering phenotype, with elevated levels corresponding to earlier flowering. Co-immunoprecipitation analysis suggested that BdRFS interacts with phospholipase Dalpha1 as well as several other abscisic acid-related proteins. Furthermore, reduction of C18:3 fatty acids in DGDG corresponded with reduced jasmonic acid metabolites in CRISPR mutants. Collectively, we suggest that stress-inducible RFS proteins represent a regulatory component of lipid metabolism that impacts several agronomic traits of biotechnological importance.
PXD036756	36264706	Synthesis of Surface-Functionalized Molybdenum Disulfide Nanomaterials for Efficient Adsorption and Deep Profiling of the Human Plasma Proteome by Data-Independent Acquisition. 	Deep Profiling of the Human Plasma Proteome with Surface-Functionalized Molybdenum Disulfide Nanomaterials	enrichment, nanomaterials, plasma protein	Blood is one of the most important clinical samples for protein biomarker discovery, as it provides rich physiological and pathological information and is easy to obtain with low invasiveness. However, the discovery of protein biomarkers in the blood by mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomic strategies has been shown to be highly challenging due to the particularly large concentration range of proteins and the strong interference by the high-abundant proteins in the blood. Therefore, developing sensitive methods for low-abundant biomarker protein identification is a key issue that has received great attention. Here, we report the synthesis and characterization of surface-functionalized magnetic molybdenum disulfide (MoS2) for the large-scale adsorption of low-abundant plasma proteins and deep profiling by MS. MoS2 nanomaterials resulted in the coverage of more than 3400 proteins (including a single-peptide hit) in a single LC-MS analysis without peptide prefractionation using pooled plasma samples, which were five times more than those obtained by the direct analysis of the plasma proteome. A detection limit in the low ng L(-1) range was obtained, which is rare compared with previous reports.
PXD034360	36264766	Targeted Proteomic Analysis of Small GTPases in Radioresistant Breast Cancer Cells. 	Targeted proteomic analysis of small GTPases in radioresistant breast cancer cells	MRM, breast cancer, radiation therapy, radioresistance, small GTPase, targeted proteomics	Radiation therapy benefits more than 50% of all cancer patients and cures 40% of them, where ionizing radiation (IR) deposits energy to cells and tissues, thereby eliciting DNA damage and resulting in cell death. Small GTPases are a superfamily of proteins that play critical roles in cell signaling. Several small GTPases, including RAC1, RHOB, and RALA, were previously shown to modulate radioresistance in cancer cells. However, there is no systematic proteomic study on small GTPases that regulate radioresistance in cancer cells. Herein, we applied a high-throughput scheduled multiple-reaction monitoring (MRM) method, along with the use of synthetic stable isotope-labeled (SIL) peptides, to identify differentially expressed small GTPase proteins in two pairs of breast cancer cell lines, MDA-MB-231 and MCF7, and their corresponding radioresistant cell lines. We identified 7 commonly altered small GTPase proteins with over 1.5-fold changes in the two pairs of cell lines. We also discovered ARFRP1 as a novel regulator of radioresistance, where its downregulation promotes radioresistance in breast cancer cells. Together, this represents the first comprehensive investigation about the differential expression of the small GTPase proteome associated with the development of radioresistance in breast cancer cells. Our work also uncovered ARFRP1 as a new target for enhancing radiation sensitivity in breast cancer.
PXD036199	36264770	Integrated Metabolomics and Lipidomics Approach for the Study of Metabolic Network and Early Diagnosis in Cerebral Infarction. 	An integrated metabolomics and lipidomics approach for the study of metabolic network and early diagnosis in cerebral infarction	Biomarkers, Cerebral Infarction, LC-MS, Lipidomics, Metabolomics	Cerebral infarction (CI) remains a major cause of high mortality and long-term disability worldwide. The exploration of biomarkers and pathogenesis is crucial for the early diagnosis of CI. Although the understanding of metabolic perturbations underlying CI has increased in recent years, the relationship between altered metabolites and disease pathogenesis has only been partially elucidated and requires further investigation. In this study, we performed an integrated metabolomics and lipidomics analysis on 59 healthy subjects and 47 CI patients. Ultimately, 49 metabolite and 68 lipid biomarkers were identified and enriched in 24 disturbed pathways. The metabolic network revealed a significant interaction between altered lipids and other metabolites. Using receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) analysis, a panel of three polar metabolites and seven lipids was optimized in the training set, which included taurine, oleoylcarnitine, creatinine, PE(22:6/P-18:0), Cer 34:2, GlcCer(d18:0/18:0), DG 44:0, LysoPC(16:0), 22:6-OH/LysoPC, and TAG58:7-FA22:4. Subsequently, a support vector machine (SVM) model was constructed and validated, which showed excellent predictive ability in the validation set. Thereby, the integrated metabolomics and lipidomics approach could contribute to a comprehensive understanding of the metabolic dyshomeostasis associated with the pathogenesis of underlying CI. The present research may promote a deeper understanding and early diagnosis of CI in the clinic. All raw data were deposited in PRIDE (PXD036199).
PXD036974	36264786	Mammalian oocytes store mRNAs in a mitochondria-associated membraneless compartment. 	Mammalian oocytes store mRNAs in a mitochondria-associated membraneless compartment	DDA, LC-ESI-MS/MS, Oocytes, mRNA storage	Full-grown oocytes are transcriptionally silent and must stably maintain the messenger RNAs (mRNAs) needed for oocyte meiotic maturation and early embryonic development. However, where and how mammalian oocytes store maternal mRNAs is unclear. Here, we report that mammalian oocytes accumulate mRNAs in a mitochondria-associated ribonucleoprotein domain (MARDO). MARDO assembly around mitochondria was promoted by the RNA-binding protein ZAR1 and directed by an increase in mitochondrial membrane potential during oocyte growth. MARDO foci coalesced into hydrogel-like matrices that clustered mitochondria. Maternal mRNAs stored in the MARDO were translationally repressed. Loss of ZAR1 disrupted the MARDO, dispersed mitochondria, and caused a premature loss of MARDO-localized mRNAs. Thus, a mitochondria-associated membraneless compartment controls mitochondrial distribution and regulates maternal mRNA storage, translation, and decay to ensure fertility in mammals.
PXD035943	36265488	RAD51AP1 regulates ALT-HDR through chromatin-directed homeostasis of TERRA. 	RAD51AP1 regulates ALT-HDR through chromatin-directed homeostasis of TERRA	ALT, Cancer, Chromatin, Homology-Directed Repair, RAD51AP1, TERRA, Telomere, Transcription	Alternative lengthening of telomeres (ALT) is a homology-directed repair (HDR) mechanism of telomere elongation that controls proliferation in subsets of aggressive cancer. Recent studies have revealed that telomere repeat-containing RNA (TERRA) promotes ALT-associated HDR (ALT-HDR). Here, we report that RAD51AP1, a crucial ALT factor, interacts with TERRA and utilizes it to generate D- and R-loop HR intermediates. We also show that RAD51AP1 binds to and might stabilize TERRA-containing R-loops as RAD51AP1 depletion reduces R-loop formation at telomere DNA breaks. Proteomic analyses uncover a role for RAD51AP1-mediated TERRA R-loop homeostasis in a mechanism of chromatin-directed suppression of TERRA and prevention of transcription-replication collisions (TRCs) during ALT-HDR. Intriguingly, we find that both TERRA binding and this non-canonical function of RAD51AP1 require its intrinsic SUMO-SIM regulatory axis. These findings provide insights into the multi-contextual functions of RAD51AP1 within the ALT mechanism and regulation of TERRA.
PXD033838	36265550	Subcellular Interactomes Revealed by Merging APEX with Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry. 	Subcellular Interactomes Revealed by Merging APEX with Cross-linking Mass Spectrometry	APEX, CXMS, PPIs, mitochondria	Subcellular protein-protein interactions (PPIs) are essential to understanding the mechanism of diverse cellular signaling events and the pathogenesis of diseases. Herein, we report an integrated APEX proximity labeling and chemical cross-linking coupled with mass spectrometry (CXMS) platform named APEX-CXMS for spatially resolved subcellular interactome profiling in a high-throughput manner. APEX proximity labeling rapidly captures subcellular proteomes, and the highly reactive chemical cross-linkers can capture weak and dynamic interactions globally without extra genetic manipulation. APEX-CXMS was first applied to mitochondria and identified 653 pairs of interprotein cross-links. Six pairs of new interactions were selected and verified by coimmunoprecipitation, the mammalian two-hybrid system, and surface plasmon resonance method. Besides, our approach was further applied to the nucleus, capturing 336 pairs of interprotein cross-links with approximately 94% nuclear specificity. APEX-CXMS thus provides a simple, fast, and general alternative to map diverse subcellular PPIs.
PXD036345	36265581	Cancer-associated Notch receptor variants lead to O-fucosylation defects that deregulate Notch signaling. 	Cancer-associated Notch receptor variants lead to O-fucosylation defects that can deregulate Notch signaling	Cancer, EGF repeat, Notch, O-fucosylation, POFUT1	NOTCH1 is a transmembrane receptor that initiates a signaling pathway involved in embryonic development of adult tissue homeostasis. The extracellular domain of NOTCH1 is composed largely of epidermal growth factor-like repeats (EGFs), many of which can be O-fucosylated at a specific consensus sequence by protein O-fucosyltransferase 1 (POFUT1). O-fucosylation of NOTCH1 is necessary for its function. The Notch pathway is deregulated in many cancers, and alteration of POFUT1 has been reported in several cancers, but further investigation is needed to assess whether there is deregulation of the Notch pathway associated with mutations that affect O-fucosylation in cancers. Using Biomuta and COSMIC databases, we selected nine NOTCH1 variants that could cause a change in O-fucosylation of key EGFs. Mass spectral glycoproteomic site mapping was used to identify alterations in O-fucosylation of EGFs containing the mutations. Cell-based NOTCH-1 signaling assays, ligand-binding assays, and cellsurface analysis were used to determine the effect of each mutation on Notch activation. Two variants led to a gain of function (GOF), six to a loss of function (LOF), and one had minimal effects. Most GOF and LOF were associated with a change in O-fucosylation. Finally, by comparing our results with known NOTCH1 alterations in cancers from which our mutations originated, we were able to establish a correlation between our results and the known GOF or LOF of NOTCH1 in these cancers. This study shows that point mutations in N1 can lead to alterations in O-fucosylation that deregulate the Notch pathway and be associated with cancer processes.
PXD036841	36265726	Polybrominated diphenyl ethers interact with the key protein involved in carbohydrate metabolism in rice. 	Polybrominated diphenyl ethers interact with the key protein involved in carbohydrate metabolism in rice	6-bisphosphate aldolase, Biomass, Chemoproteomics, Fructose-1, Photoaffinity probe, Soluble sugar	Rice exposed to organic pollutants such as polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) usually experiences reduced biomass and increased soluble sugar content. This study showed that 2, 2', 4, 4'-tetrabromodiphenyl ether (BDE-47) led to increased glucose, fructose, and sucrose in rice leaves, accompanied by decreased photosynthetic rate and biomass. In order to identify the key enzyme that BDE-47 interacted with, a diazirine-alkynyl photoaffinity probe was designed, and photoaffinity labeling based chemoproteomics was conducted. Among all differentially expressed proteins, fructose-1, 6-bisphosphate aldolase (FBA) involved in carbohydrate metabolism was most likely the target protein of BDE-47. Spectral techniques and molecular docking analysis further revealed that the pollutant-protein interaction was driven by hydrophobic force. BDE-47 inhibited FBA catalytic efficiency by competing with its substrate, fructose-1, 6-diphosphate (F-1, 6-P), leading to soluble sugar accumulation, photosynthetic rate decline and biomass reduction. This study unraveled the influencing mechanism of PBDEs on rice by combining the novel photoaffinity labeling-based chemoproteomics with conventional proteomics. The improved knowledge on direct interaction between organic pollutants and proteins will help alleviate the harmful effects of soil pollution on plants.
PXD030017	36265737	6-Methylcoumarin rescues bacterial quorum sensing induced ribosome-inactivating stress in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	Proteomic analysis of Caenorhabditis elegans challenged with pseudomonas aeruginosa and the inhibitory effects of 6-methycoumarine	7-methyl coumarine, Caenorhabditis elegans, Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1, Quantitative proteomics, TMT	INTRODUCTION: Bacterial pathogenicity has for long posed severe effects on patient care. Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a common cause of hospital-acquired infections and nosocomial illnesses. It is known to infect the host by colonizing through quorum sensing and the production of exotoxins. METHODS: The current effort is an analysis of proteomic alterations caused by P. aeruginosa PAO1 to study the effects of quorum sensing inhibitor 6-Methylcoumarin on PAO1 infectivity in the Caenorhabditis elegans model. RESULTS: Through tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics approaches, 229 proteins were found to be differentially regulated in infection and upon inhibition. Among these, 34 proteins were found to be dysregulated in both infection and quorum-sensing inhibition conditions. Along with the dysregulation of proteins involved in host-pathogen interaction, PAO1 was found to induce ribosome-inactivating stress accompanied by the downregulating mitochondrial proteins. This in turn caused dysregulation of apoptosis. The expression of multiple proteins involved in ribosome biogenesis and structure, oxidative phosphorylation, and mitochondrial enzymes were altered due to infection. This mechanism, adapted by PAO1 to survive in the host, was inhibited by 6-Methylcoumarin by rescuing the downregulation of ribosomal and mitochondrial proteins. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, the data reflect the molecular alterations due to quorum sensing and the usefulness of inhibitors in controlling pathogenesis.
PXD017453	36266272	Proteogenomics refines the molecular classification of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 	Proteogenomic subtyping of chronic lymphocytic leukemia identifies subgroups with contrasting clinical outcome and distinct ex-vivo drug response profile	B-cell, Cancer, Chronic Lymphoblastic Leukemia, Clinical samples., HiRIEF, LC-MS, Leukemia, Lymphoblast, Proteogenomics	Cancer heterogeneity at the proteome level may explain differences in therapy response and prognosis beyond the currently established genomic and transcriptomic-based diagnostics. The relevance of proteomics for disease classifications remains to be established in clinically heterogeneous cancer entities such as chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Here, we characterize the proteome and transcriptome alongside genetic and ex-vivo drug response profiling in a clinically annotated CLL discovery cohort (n = 68). Unsupervised clustering of the proteome data reveals six subgroups. Five of these proteomic groups are associated with genetic features, while one group is only detectable at the proteome level. This new group is characterized by accelerated disease progression, high spliceosomal protein abundances associated with aberrant splicing, and low B cell receptor signaling protein abundances (ASB-CLL). Classifiers developed to identify ASB-CLL based on its characteristic proteome or splicing signature in two independent cohorts (n = 165, n = 169) confirm that ASB-CLL comprises about 20% of CLL patients. The inferior overall survival in ASB-CLL is also independent of both TP53- and IGHV mutation status. Our multi-omics analysis refines the classification of CLL and highlights the potential of proteomics to improve cancer patient stratification beyond genetic and transcriptomic profiling.
PXD037199	36266276	Promiscuity of response regulators for thioredoxin steers bacterial virulence. 	TrxA-binding proteins of Salmonella	Salmonella, TrxA, thioredoxin	The exquisite specificity between a sensor kinase and its cognate response regulator ensures faithful partner selectivity within two-component pairs concurrently firing in a single bacterium, minimizing crosstalk with other members of this conserved family of paralogous proteins. We show that conserved hydrophobic and charged residues on the surface of thioredoxin serve as a docking station for structurally diverse response regulators. Using the OmpR protein, we identify residues in the flexible linker and the C-terminal beta-hairpin that enable associations of this archetypical response regulator with thioredoxin, but are dispensable for interactions of this transcription factor to its cognate sensor kinase EnvZ, DNA or RNA polymerase. Here we show that the promiscuous interactions of response regulators with thioredoxin foster the flow of information through otherwise highly dedicated two-component signaling systems, thereby enabling both the transcription of Salmonella pathogenicity island-2 genes as well as growth of this intracellular bacterium in macrophages and mice.
PXD016318	36268885	Three Major Gastrointestinal Cancers Could Be Distinguished through Subclass-Specific IgG Glycosylation. 	Profiling of Subclass-Specific IgG Glycosylation in Colorectal Cancer	Colorectal, Complete Tryptic Digestion, Serum IgG	Esophageal cancer (EC), gastric cancer (GC), and colorectal cancer (CRC) are three major digestive tract tumors with higher morbidity and mortality due to significant molecular heterogeneity. Altered IgG glycosylation has been observed in inflammatory activities and disease progression, and the IgG glycome profile could be used for disease stratification. However, IgG N-glycome profiles in these three cancers have not been systematically investigated. Herein, subclass-specific IgG glycosylation in CRC, GC, and EC was comprehensively characterized by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. It was found that IgG1 sialylation was decreased in all three cancers, and the alterations in CRC and EC may be subclass-specific. IgG4 mono-galactosylation was increased in all three cancers, which was a subclass-specific change in all of them. Additionally, glycopeptides of IgG1-H5N5, IgG2-H4N3F1, and IgG4-H4N4F1 could distinguish all three cancer groups from controls with fair diagnostic performance. Furthermore, bioinformatics verified the differential expression of relevant glycosyltransferase genes in cancer progression. Significantly, those three gastrointestinal cancers could be distinguished from each other using subclass-specific IgG glycans. These findings demonstrated the spatial and temporal diversity of IgG N-glycome among digestive cancers, increasing our understanding of the molecular mechanisms of EC, GC, and CRC pathogenesis.
PXD014678	36269050	KAT2-mediated acetylation switches the mode of PALB2 chromatin association to safeguard genome integrity. 	PALB2 ChAM acetylation mapping in human cells	DNA repair, acetylation, chromatin	The tumour suppressor PALB2 stimulates RAD51-mediated homologous recombination (HR) repair of DNA damage, whilst its steady-state association with active genes protects these loci from replication stress. Here, we report that the lysine acetyltransferases 2A and 2B (KAT2A/2B, also called GCN5/PCAF), two well-known transcriptional regulators, acetylate a cluster of seven lysine residues (7K-patch) within the PALB2 chromatin association motif (ChAM) and, in this way, regulate context-dependent PALB2 binding to chromatin. In unperturbed cells, the 7K-patch is targeted for KAT2A/2B-mediated acetylation, which in turn enhances the direct association of PALB2 with nucleosomes. Importantly, DNA damage triggers a rapid deacetylation of ChAM and increases the overall mobility of PALB2. Distinct missense mutations of the 7K-patch render the mode of PALB2 chromatin binding, making it either unstably chromatin-bound (7Q) or randomly bound with a reduced capacity for mobilisation (7R). Significantly, both of these mutations confer a deficiency in RAD51 foci formation and increase DNA damage in S phase, leading to the reduction of overall cell survival. Thus, our study reveals that acetylation of the ChAM 7K-patch acts as a molecular switch to enable dynamic PALB2 shuttling for HR repair while protecting active genes during DNA replication.
PXD030577	36269744	Characterization of peptide-protein relationships in protein ambiguity groups via bipartite graphs. 	Characterization of peptide-protein relationships in protein ambiguity groups via bipartite graphs - data set D2 (without isoforms)	UPS1, spike-in	In bottom-up proteomics, proteins are enzymatically digested into peptides before measurement with mass spectrometry. The relationship between proteins and their corresponding peptides can be represented by bipartite graphs. We conduct a comprehensive analysis of bipartite graphs using quantified peptides from measured data sets as well as theoretical peptides from an in silico digestion of the corresponding complete taxonomic protein sequence databases. The aim of this study is to characterize and structure the different types of graphs that occur and to compare them between data sets. We observed a large influence of the accepted minimum peptide length during in silico digestion. When changing from theoretical peptides to measured ones, the graph structures are subject to two opposite effects. On the one hand, the graphs based on measured peptides are on average smaller and less complex compared to graphs using theoretical peptides. On the other hand, the proportion of protein nodes without unique peptides, which are a complicated case for protein inference and quantification, is considerably larger for measured data. Additionally, the proportion of graphs containing at least one protein node without unique peptides rises when going from database to quantitative level. The fraction of shared peptides and proteins without unique peptides as well as the complexity and size of the graphs highly depends on the data set and organism. Large differences between the structures of bipartite peptide-protein graphs have been observed between database and quantitative level as well as between analyzed species. In the analyzed measured data sets, the proportion of protein nodes without unique peptides ranged from 6.4% to 55.0%. This highlights the need for novel methods that can quantify proteins without unique peptides. The knowledge about the structure of the bipartite peptide-protein graphs gained in this study will be useful for the development of such algorithms.
PXD026924	36269771	GBPL3 localizes to the nuclear pore complex and functionally connects the nuclear basket with the nucleoskeleton in plants. 	A Conserved Nuclear Membrane Protein As an Essential Component of Plant Nuclear Lamina Is Required for Proper Genome Organization and Activity	PNET2 CRWN1 KAKU4 MAN1  proximity chromatin	The nuclear basket (NB) is an essential structure of the nuclear pore complex (NPC) and serves as a dynamic and multifunctional platform that participates in various critical nuclear processes, including cargo transport, molecular docking, and gene expression regulation. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are not completely understood, particularly in plants. Here, we identified a guanylate-binding protein (GBP)-like GTPase (GBPL3) as a novel NPC basket component in Arabidopsis. Using fluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy, we found that GBPL3 localizes to the nuclear rim and is enriched in the nuclear pore. Proximity labeling proteomics and protein-protein interaction assays revealed that GBPL3 is predominantly distributed at the NPC basket, where it physically associates with NB nucleoporins and recruits chromatin remodelers, transcription apparatus and regulators, and the RNA splicing and processing machinery, suggesting a conserved function of the NB in transcription regulation as reported in yeasts and animals. Moreover, we found that GBPL3 physically interacts with the nucleoskeleton via disordered coiled-coil regions. Simultaneous loss of GBPL3 and one of the 4 Arabidopsis nucleoskeleton genes CRWNs led to distinct development- and stress-related phenotypes, ranging from seedling lethality to lesion development, and aberrant transcription of stress-related genes. Our results indicate that GBPL3 is a bona fide component of the plant NPC and physically and functionally connects the NB with the nucleoskeleton, which is required for the coordination of gene expression during plant development and stress responses.
PXD036355	36270031	The Arabidopsis TETRATRICOPEPTIDE-REPEAT THIOREDOXIN-LIKE (TTL) family members are involved in root system formation via their interaction with cytoskeleton and cell wall remodeling. 	The Arabidopsis TETRATRICOPEPTIDE-REPEAT THIOREDOXIN-LIKE (TTL) family members are involved in root system formation via their interaction with cytoskeleton and cell wall remodeling		Lateral roots (LR) are essential components of the plant edaphic interface; contributing to water and nutrient uptake, biotic and abiotic interactions, stress survival, and plant anchorage. We have identified the TETRATRICOPEPTIDE-REPEAT THIOREDOXIN-LIKE 3 (TTL3) gene as being related to LR emergence and later development. Loss of function of TTL3 leads to a reduced number of emerged LR due to delayed development of lateral root primordia (LRP). This trait is further enhanced in the triple mutant ttl1ttl3ttl4. TTL3 interacts with microtubules and endomembranes, and is known to participate in the brassinosteroid (BR) signaling pathway. Both ttl3 and ttl1ttl3ttl4 mutants are less sensitive to BR treatment in terms of LR formation and primary root growth. The ability of TTL3 to modulate biophysical properties of the cell wall was established under restrictive conditions of hyperosmotic stress and loss of root growth recovery, which was enhanced in ttl1ttl3ttl4. Timing and spatial distribution of TTL3 expression is consistent with its role in development of LRP before their emergence and subsequent growth of LR. TTL3 emerged as a component of the root system morphogenesis regulatory network.
PXD033396	36271736	Mechanisms of chlorate toxicity and resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. 	Mechanisms of chlorate toxicity and resistance in Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, chlorate toxicity, resistance	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic bacterial pathogen that often encounters hypoxic/anoxic environments within the host, which increases its tolerance to many conventional antibiotics. Toward identifying novel treatments, we explored the therapeutic potential of chlorate, a pro-drug that kills hypoxic/anoxic, antibiotic-tolerant P. aeruginosa populations. While chlorate itself is relatively nontoxic, it is enzymatically reduced to the toxic oxidizing agent, chlorite, by hypoxically induced nitrate reductase. To better assess chlorate's therapeutic potential, we investigated mechanisms of chlorate toxicity and resistance in P. aeruginosa. We used transposon mutagenesis to identify genes that alter P. aeruginosa fitness during chlorate treatment, finding that methionine sulfoxide reductases (Msr), which repair oxidized methionine residues, support survival during chlorate stress. Chlorate treatment leads to proteome-wide methionine oxidation, which is exacerbated in a incrementmsrAincrementmsrB strain. In response to chlorate, P. aeruginosa upregulates proteins involved in a wide range of functions, including metabolism, DNA replication/repair, protein repair, transcription, and translation, and these newly synthesized proteins are particularly vulnerable to methionine oxidation. The addition of exogenous methionine partially rescues P. aeruginosa survival during chlorate treatment, suggesting that widespread methionine oxidation contributes to death. Finally, we found that mutations that decrease nitrate reductase activity are a common mechanism of chlorate resistance.
PXD022895	36271901	Adaptations to high pressure of Nautilia sp. strain PV-1, a piezophilic Campylobacterium (aka Epsilonproteobacterium) isolated from a deep-sea hydrothermal vent. 	Adaptations to high pressure of Nautilia sp. strain PV-1, a piezophilic Epsilonproteobacterium isolated from a deep-sea hydrothermal vent	Epsilonproteobacteria, chemostat, chemosynthesis, deep-sea hydrothermal vent, high-pressure, piezophile, thermophile	Physiological and gene expression studies of deep-sea bacteria under pressure conditions similar to those experienced in their natural habitat are critical for understanding growth kinetics and metabolic adaptations to in situ conditions. The Campylobacterium (aka Epsilonproteobacterium) Nautilia sp. strain PV-1 was isolated from hydrothermal fluids released from an active deep-sea hydrothermal vent at 9degrees N on the East Pacific Rise. Strain PV-1 is a piezophilic, moderately thermophilic, chemolithoautotrophic anaerobe that conserves energy by coupling the oxidation of hydrogen to the reduction of nitrate or elemental sulfur. Using a high-pressure-high temperature continuous culture system, we established that strain PV-1 has the shortest generation time of all known piezophilic bacteria and we investigated its protein expression pattern in response to different hydrostatic pressure regimes. Proteogenomic analyses of strain PV-1 grown at 20 and 5 MPa showed that pressure adaptation is not restricted to stress response or homeoviscous adaptation but extends to enzymes involved in central metabolic pathways. Protein synthesis, motility, transport, and energy metabolism are all affected by pressure, although to different extents. In strain PV-1, low-pressure conditions induce the synthesis of phage-related proteins and an overexpression of enzymes involved in carbon fixation.
PXD032965	36272646	A bovine antibody possessing an ultralong complementarity-determining region CDRH3 targets a highly conserved epitope in sarbecovirus spike proteins. 	Binding of a bovine ultralong CDRH3 to the SARS-CoV RBD	Antibody, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV	Broadly neutralizing antibodies have huge potential as novel antiviral therapeutics due to their ability to recognize highly conserved epitopes that are seldom mutated in viral variants. A subset of bovine antibodies possess an ultralong complementarity-determining region (CDR)H3 that is highly adept at recognizing such conserved epitopes, but their reactivity against Sarbecovirus Spike proteins has not been explored previously. Here, we use a SARS-naive library to isolate a broadly reactive bovine CDRH3 that binds the receptor-binding domain of SARS-CoV, SARS-CoV-2, and all SARS-CoV-2 variants. We show further that it neutralizes viruses pseudo-typed with SARS-CoV Spike, but this is not by competition with angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) binding. Instead, using differential hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, we demonstrate that it recognizes the major site of vulnerability of Sarbecoviruses. This glycan-shielded cryptic epitope becomes available only transiently via interdomain movements of the Spike protein such that antibody binding triggers destruction of the prefusion complex. This proof of principle study demonstrates the power of in vitro expressed bovine antibodies with ultralong CDRH3s for the isolation of novel, broadly reactive tools to combat emerging pathogens and to identify key epitopes for vaccine development.
PXD034217	36272986	Establishment of in vivo proximity labeling with biotin using TurboID in the filamentous fungus Sordaria macrospora. 	Establishment of TurboID proximity proteomics in the filamentous fungus Sordaria macrospora	BioID, STRIPAK, Sordaria macrospora, TurboID, proximity labeling	Proximity-dependent biotin identification (BioID) has emerged as a powerful methodology to identify proteins co-localizing with a given bait protein in vivo. The approach has been established in animal cells, plants and yeast but not yet in filamentous fungi. BioID relies on promiscuous biotin ligases fused to bait proteins to covalently label neighboring proteins with biotin. Biotinylated proteins are specifically enriched through biotin affinity capture from denatured cell lysates and subsequently identified and quantified with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). In contrast to many other affinity capture approaches for studying protein-protein interactions, BioID does not rely on physical protein-protein binding within native cell lysates. This feature allows the identification of protein proximities of weak or transient and dynamic nature. Here, we demonstrate the application of BioID for the fungal model organism Sordaria macrospora (Sm) using the example of the STRIPAK complex interactor 1 (SCI1) of the well-characterized striatin-interacting phosphatase and kinase (SmSTRIPAK) complex as proof of concept. For the establishment of BioID in S. macrospora, a codon-optimized TurboID biotin ligase was fused to SCI1. Biotin capture of the known SmSTRIPAK components PRO11, SmMOB3, PRO22 and SmPP2Ac1 demonstrates the successful BioID application in S. macrospora. BioID proximity labeling approaches will provide a powerful proteomics tool for fungal biologists.
PXD034887	36273492	Resistance to ATR Inhibitors Is Mediated by Loss of the Nonsense-Mediated Decay Factor UPF2. 	Resistance to ATR Inhibitors Mediated by Loss of the Nonsense-Mediated Decay Factor UPF2	AB, Gastric cancer, NMD, UPF2, ph	Over one million cases of gastric cancer are diagnosed each year globally, and the metastatic disease continues to have a poor prognosis. A significant proportion of gastric tumors have defects in the DNA damage response pathway, creating therapeutic opportunities through synthetic lethal approaches. Several small-molecule inhibitors of ATR, a key regulator of the DNA damage response, are now in clinical development as targeted agents for gastric cancer. Here, we performed a large-scale CRISPR interference screen to discover genetic determinants of response and resistance to ATR inhibitors (ATRi) in gastric cancer cells. Among the top hits identified as mediators of ATRi response were UPF2 and other components of the nonsense-mediated decay (NMD) pathway. Loss of UPF2 caused ATRi resistance across multiple gastric cancer cell lines. Global proteomic, phosphoproteomic, and transcriptional profiling experiments revealed that cell-cycle progression and DNA damage responses were altered in UPF2-mutant cells. Further studies demonstrated that UPF2-depleted cells failed to accumulate in G1 following treatment with ATRi. UPF2 loss also reduced transcription-replication collisions, which has previously been associated with ATRi response, thereby suggesting a possible mechanism of resistance. Our results uncover a novel role for NMD factors in modulating response to ATRi in gastric cancer, highlighting a previously unknown mechanism of resistance that may inform the clinical use of these drugs. SIGNIFICANCE: Loss of NMD proteins promotes resistance to ATR inhibitors in gastric cancer cells, which may provide a combination of therapeutic targets and biomarkers to improve the clinical utility of these drugs.
PXD034549	36275609	Proteome-wide identification of S-sulfenylated cysteines reveals metabolic response to freezing stress after cold acclimation in Brassica napus. 	Proteome-wide identification of S-sulfenylated cysteines reveals metabolic adaptation to freezing stress after cold acclimation in Brassica napus	freezing stress, iodoTMT, redox sensitive proteins	Redox regulation plays a wide role in plant growth, development, and adaptation to stresses. Sulfenylation is one of the reversible oxidative post-transcriptional modifications. Here we performed an iodoTMT-based proteomic analysis to identify the redox sensitive proteins in vivo under freezing stress after cold acclimation in Brassica napus. Totally, we obtained 1,372 sulfenylated sites in 714 proteins. The overall sulfenylation level displayed an increased trend under freezing stress after cold acclimation. We identified 171 differentially sulfenylated proteins (DSPs) under freezing stress, which were predicted to be mainly localized in chloroplast and cytoplasm. The up-regulated DSPs were mainly enriched in photosynthesis and glycolytic processes and function of catalytic activity. Enzymes involved in various pathways such as glycolysis and Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) cycle were generally sulfenylated and the metabolite levels in these pathways was significantly reduced under freezing stress after cold acclimation. Furthermore, enzyme activity assay confirmed that the activity of cytosolic pyruvate kinase and malate dehydrogenase 2 was significantly reduced under H2O2 treatment. Our study provides a landscape of redox sensitive proteins in B. napus in response to freezing stress after cold acclimation, which proposes a basis for understanding the redox regulation in plant metabolic response to freezing stress after cold acclimation.
PXD033857	36275617	Distinct mRNA and protein interactomes highlight functional differentiation of major eIF4F-like complexes from Trypanosoma brucei. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of four translation initiation proteins, EIF4E3, EIF4E4, EIF4G3 and EIF4G4 in Trypanosoma brucei	EIF4E, EIF4G, Trypanosoma brucei	Gene expression in pathogenic protozoans of the family Trypanosomatidae has several novel features, including multiple eIF4F-like complexes involved in protein synthesis. The eukaryotic eIF4F complex, formed mainly by eIF4E and eIF4G subunits, is responsible for the canonical selection of mRNAs required for the initiation of mRNA translation. The best-known complexes implicated in translation in trypanosomatids are based on two related pairs of eIF4E and eIF4G subunits (EIF4E3/EIF4G4 and EIF4E4/EIF4G3), whose functional distinctions remain to be fully described. Here, to define interactomes associated with both complexes in Trypanosoma brucei procyclic forms, we performed parallel immunoprecipitation experiments followed by identification of proteins co-precipitated with the four tagged eIF4E and eIF4G subunits. A number of different protein partners, including RNA binding proteins and helicases, specifically co-precipitate with each complex. Highlights with the EIF4E4/EIF4G3 pair include RBP23, PABP1, EIF4AI and the CRK1 kinase. Co-precipitated partners with the EIF4E3/EIF4G4 pair are more diverse and include DRBD2, PABP2 and different zinc-finger proteins and RNA helicases. EIF4E3/EIF4G4 are essential for viability and to better define their role, we further investigated their phenotypes after knockdown. Depletion of either EIF4E3/EIF4G4 mRNAs lead to aberrant morphology with a more direct impact on events associated with cytokinesis. We also sought to identify those mRNAs differentially associated with each complex through CLIP-seq with the two eIF4E subunits. Predominant among EIF4E4-bound transcripts are those encoding ribosomal proteins, absent from those found with EIF4E3, which are generally more diverse. RNAi mediated depletion of EIF4E4, which does not affect proliferation, does not lead to changes in mRNAs or proteins associated with EIF4E3, confirming a lack of redundancy and distinct roles for the two complexes.
PXD034900	36275769	Immunoproteasomes control activation of innate immune signaling and microglial function. 	Impact of immunoproteasome impairment on microglia cell function	CNS, UPS, immunoproteasome, microglia, neuroinflammation, proteostasis	Microglia are the resident immune cells of the central nervous system (CNS) and play a major role in the regulation of brain homeostasis. To maintain their cellular protein homeostasis, microglia express standard proteasomes and immunoproteasomes (IP), a proteasome isoform that preserves protein homeostasis also in non-immune cells under challenging conditions. The impact of IP on microglia function in innate immunity of the CNS is however not well described. Here, we establish that IP impairment leads to proteotoxic stress and triggers the unfolded and integrated stress responses in mouse and human microglia models. Using proteomic analysis, we demonstrate that IP deficiency in microglia results in profound alterations of the ubiquitin-modified proteome among which proteins involved in the regulation of stress and immune responses. In line with this, molecular analysis revealed chronic activation of NF-kappaB signaling in IP-deficient microglia without further stimulus. In addition, we show that IP impairment alters microglial function based on markers for phagocytosis and motility. At the molecular level IP impairment activates interferon signaling promoted by the activation of the cytosolic stress response protein kinase R. The presented data highlight the importance of IP function for the proteostatic potential as well as for precision proteolysis to control stress and immune signaling in microglia function.
PXD024892	36277748	Proteomics and bioinformatics analysis of cardiovascular related proteins in offspring exposed to gestational diabetes mellitus. 	Proteomics and Bioinformatics Analysis of Cardiovascular Related Proteins in Offspring Exposed to Gestational Diabetes Mellitus	Gamete and Embryo-Fetal Origins of Adult Diseases, Gestational Diabetes Mellitus, Offspring, Umbilical Vessel, iTRAQ	Introduction: Previous studies have demonstrated that exposed to the initial suboptimal intrauterine environment of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) may increase risk of cardiovascular disease in adulthood. Methods: In order to investigate the underlying mechanisms involved in the increased risk of cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) in the offspring of GDM, we applied a high-throughput proteomics approach to compare the proteomic expression profile of human umbilical vessels of normal and GDM offspring. Results: A total of significantly different 100 proteins were identified in umbilical vessels from GDM group compared with normal controls, among which 31 proteins were up-regulated, while 69 proteins were down-regulated. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) are validated using Western blotting analysis. The analysis of these differently expressed proteins (DEPs) related diseases and functions results, performed by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis (IPA) software. Based on "Diseases and Disorders" analysis, 17 proteins (ACTA2, ADAR, CBFB, DDAH1, FBN1, FGA, FGB, FGG, GLS, GSTM1, HBB, PGM3, PPP1R13L, S100A8, SLC12A4, TPP2, VCAN) were described to be associated with CVD, especially in Anemia, Thrombus and Myocardial infarction. Functional analysis indicated that DEPs involved in many cardiovascular functions, especially in "vasoconstriction of blood vessel" (related DEPs: ACTA2, DDAH1, FBN1, FGA, FGB, and FGG). Upstream regulator analyses of DEPs identifies STAT3 as inhibitor of ACTA2, FGA, FGB, and FGG. Conclusion: The results of this study indicate that intrauterine hyperglycemia is associated with an elevated risk of cardiovascular risk in the offspring.
PXD031171	36280721	A multi-purpose, regenerable, proteome-scale, human phosphoserine resource for phosphoproteomics. 	iSPI: A Multi-dimensional, Regenerable, Proteome-scale, Human Phosphopeptide Resource for Phosphoproteomics	FLR, Phosphoproteomics, Synthetic Biology	Mass-spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics has become indispensable for understanding cellular signaling in complex biological systems. Despite the central role of protein phosphorylation, the field still lacks inexpensive, regenerable, and diverse phosphopeptides with ground-truth phosphorylation positions. Here, we present Iterative Synthetically Phosphorylated Isomers (iSPI), a proteome-scale library of human-derived phosphoserine-containing phosphopeptides that is inexpensive, regenerable, and diverse, with precisely known positions of phosphorylation. We demonstrate possible uses of iSPI, including use as a phosphopeptide standard, a tool to evaluate and optimize phosphorylation-site localization algorithms, and a benchmark to compare performance across data analysis pipelines. We also present AScorePro, an updated version of the AScore algorithm specifically optimized for phosphorylation-site localization in higher energy fragmentation spectra, and the FLR viewer, a web tool for phosphorylation-site localization, to enable community use of the iSPI resource. iSPI and its associated data constitute a useful, multi-purpose resource for the phosphoproteomics community.
PXD030929	36280777	Heterologously secreted MbxA from Moraxella bovis induces a membrane blebbing response of the human host cell. 	Heterologously secreted MbxA from Moraxella bovis induces a membrane blebbing response of the host cell	RTX toxins, acylation, cell membrane damage, membrane blebbing, secretion	Many proteins of the Repeats in Toxins (RTX) protein family are toxins of Gram-negative pathogens including hemolysin A (HlyA) of uropathogenic E. coli. RTX proteins are secreted via Type I secretion systems (T1SS) and adopt their native conformation in the Ca(2+)-rich extracellular environment. Here we employed the E. coli HlyA T1SS as a heterologous surrogate system for the RTX toxin MbxA from the bovine pathogen Moraxella bovis. In E. coli the HlyA system successfully activates the heterologous MbxA substrate by acylation and secretes the precursor proMbxA and active MbxA allowing purification of both species in quantities sufficient for a variety of investigations. The activating E. coli acyltransferase HlyC recognizes the acylation sites in MbxA, but unexpectedly in a different acylation pattern as for its endogenous substrate HlyA. HlyC-activated MbxA shows host species-independent activity including a so-far unknown toxicity against human lymphocytes and epithelial cells. Using live-cell imaging, we show an immediate MbxA-mediated permeabilization and a rapidly developing blebbing of the plasma membrane in epithelial cells, which is associated with immediate cell death.
PXD030559	36281226	Swine acute diarrhea syndrome coronavirus induces autophagy to promote its replication via the Akt/mTOR pathway. 	Swine Acute Diarrhea Syndrome Coronavirus Induces Autophagy to Promote Its Replication via the Akt/mTOR Pathway	SARS-CoVï¼›Autophagyï¼›ITGA3	Swine acute diarrhea syndrome coronavirus (SADS-CoV) is an enveloped, single-stranded, positive-sense RNA virus belonging to the Coronaviridae family. Increasingly studies have demonstrated that viruses could utilize autophagy to promote their own replication. However, the relationship between SADS-CoV and autophagy remains unknown. Here, we reported that SADS-CoV infection-induced autophagy and pharmacologically increased autophagy were conducive to viral proliferation. Conversely, suppression of autophagy by pharmacological inhibitors or knockdown of autophagy-related protein impeded viral replication. Furthermore, we demonstrated the underlying mechanism by which SADS-CoV triggered autophagy through the inactivation of the Akt/mTOR pathway. Importantly, we identified integrin alpha3 (ITGA3) as a potential antiviral target upstream of Akt/mTOR and autophagy pathways. Knockdown of ITGA3 enhanced autophagy and consequently increased the replication of SADS-CoV. Collectively, our studies revealed a novel mechanism that SADS-CoV-induced autophagy to facilitate its proliferation via Akt/mTOR pathway and found that ITGA3 was an effective antiviral factor for suppressing viral infection.
PXD036478	36281450	Adenosine-rich extract of Ganoderma lucidum: A safe and effective lipid-lowering substance. 	Adenosine-rich extract of Ganoderma lucidum: a safe and effective lipid-lowering substance via regulating expression and modulation of PPAR signaling pathway	Adenosine extract of Ganoderma lucidum (AEGL), Hyperlipidemia, Lipidomics, Protein post-translational modifications	Ganoderma lucidum is a traditional Chinese medicine with a variety of active compounds and possesses adequate lipid-lowering and anti-atherosclerotic effects. However, its main active components and potential mechanisms still remain unclear. Here, we evaluated the anti-hyperlipidemic effect of the adenosine extract from Ganoderma lucidum (AEGL) in high-fat-diet (HFD)-induced hyperlipidemic ApoE(-/-) mice and explored the underlying biological mechanism by multi-omics analysis. Treatment with AEGL for 8 weeks significantly decreased the serum levels of total cholesterol (TC), triglyceride (TG), and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-c) by 45.59%, 41.22%, and 39.02%, respectively, as well as reduced liver TC and TG by 44.15% and 76.23%, compared with the HFD-only group. We also observed significant amelioration of hepatic steatosis without liver and kidney damage after AEGL treatment. Regulating the expression and acetylation/crotonylation of proteins involved in the PPAR signaling pathway may be one of the potential mechanisms involved in the observed lipid-lowering effects of AEGL.
PXD036925	36281932	Exosomal STAT1 derived from high phosphorus-stimulated vascular endothelial cells induces vascular smooth muscle cell calcification via the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. 	proteomic content of HUVEC-Exos in HP and NP conditions	Exosome, vascular calcification	Vascular calcification is commonly observed in chronic kidney disease. The mechanism of how the calcification signal from endothelial cells is transmitted to vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) remains unknown. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether exosomes from HUVECs (HUVEC-Exos) could regulate VSMC calcification and its potential signaling pathway. HUVEC-Exos were isolated from HUVECs under no phosphorus (NP) and high phosphorus (HP) conditions. Alizarin Red S staining and calcium (Ca) content analysis were carried out to detect calcification in VSMCs. Proteomics analysis was carried out to detect the differential expression of exosomal proteins. Protein and mRNA levels were measured by western blot analysis and reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR). Exosomes derived from HP-HUVECs promoted the calcification of VSMCs, as assessed by Alizarin Red S staining, alkaline phosphatase activity assays, Ca content measurements and the increased expression of runt-related transcription factor 2 and osteopontin. Proteomic analysis detected the upregulation of STAT1 in HP-exosomes from HUVECs (HUVEC-Exos) compared with NP-HUVEC-Exos, which was also confirmed by western blot analysis and RT-qPCR. Inhibition of STAT1 expression in VSMCs using fludarabine or knockdown of STAT1 expression using small interfering RNA alleviated the calcification of VSMCs. Furthermore, lithium chloride (Wnt activator) reversed the protective effect of STAT1 inhibition on VSMC calcification, while Dickkopf-1 (Wnt inhibitor) exerted the opposite effect, suggesting that activation of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway was involved in STAT1-mediated VSMC calcification. In conclusion, the present results indicated that exosomal STAT1 derived from HP-treated HUVECs could promote VSMC calcification, and activation of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway may be a potential mechanism of the VSMC calcification promoted by exosomes.
PXD033015	36282911	Host protein kinases required for SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid phosphorylation and viral replication. 	SARS-CoV-2 phosphoproteomics - ACE2-A549 and Vero	COVID-19, Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS-CoV-2, phosphoproteomics	Multiple coronaviruses have emerged independently in the past 20 years that cause lethal human diseases. Although vaccine development targeting these viruses has been accelerated substantially, there remain patients requiring treatment who cannot be vaccinated or who experience breakthrough infections. Understanding the common host factors necessary for the life cycles of coronaviruses may reveal conserved therapeutic targets. Here, we used the known substrate specificities of mammalian protein kinases to deconvolute the sequence of phosphorylation events mediated by three host protein kinase families (SRPK, GSK-3, and CK1) that coordinately phosphorylate a cluster of serine and threonine residues in the viral N protein, which is required for viral replication. We also showed that loss or inhibition of SRPK1/2, which we propose initiates the N protein phosphorylation cascade, compromised the viral replication cycle. Because these phosphorylation sites are highly conserved across coronaviruses, inhibitors of these protein kinases not only may have therapeutic potential against COVID-19 but also may be broadly useful against coronavirus-mediated diseases.
PXD037102	36284271	Tumour inhibitory activity on pancreatic cancer by bispecific nanobody targeting PD-L1 and CXCR4. 	LC-MS characterization of anti-PD-L1 and CXCR4 bispecific nanobodies	Bispecific, LC-MS, Nanobody, complete MW, protein	BACKGROUND: Antibodies and derivative drugs targeting immune checkpoints have been approved for the treatment of several malignancies, but there are fewer responses in patients with pancreatic cancer. Here, we designed a nanobody molecule with bi-targeting on PD-L1 and CXCR4, as both targets are overexpressed in many cancer cells and play important roles in tumorigenesis. We characterized the biochemical and anti-tumour activities of the bispecific nanobodies in vitro and in vivo. METHODS: A nanobody molecule was designed and constructed. The nanobody sequences targeting PD-L1 and CXCR4 were linked by the (G4S)3 flexible peptide to construct the anti-PD-L1/CXCR4 bispecific nanobody. The bispecific nanobody was expressed in E. coli cells and purified by affinity chromatography. The purified nanobody was biochemically characterized by mass spectrometry, Western blotting and flow cytometry to confirm the molecule and its association with both PD-L1 and CXCR4. The biological function of the nanobody and its anti-tumour effects were examined by an in vitro tumour cell-killing assay and in vivo tumour inhibition in mouse xenograft models. RESULTS: A novel anti-PD-L1/CXCR4 bispecific nanobody was designed, constructed and characterized. The molecule specifically bound to two targets on the surface of human cancer cells and inhibited CXCL12-induced Jurkat cell migration. The bispecific nanobody increased the level of IFN-gamma secreted by T-cell activation. The cytotoxicity of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (hPBMCs) against pancreatic cancer cells was enhanced by the molecule in combination with IL-2. In a human pancreatic cancer xenograft model, the anti-PD-L1/CXCR4 nanobody markedly inhibited tumour growth and was superior to the combo-treatment by anti-PD-L1 nanobody and anti-CXCR4 nanobody or treatment with atezolizumab as a positive control. Immunofluorescence and immunohistochemical staining of xenograft tumours showed that the anti-tumour effects were associated with the inhibition of angiogenesis and the infiltration of immune cells. CONCLUSION: These results clearly revealed that the anti-PD-L1/CXCR4 bispecific nanobody exerted anti-tumour efficacy in vitro and inhibited tumour growth in vivo. This agent can be further developed as a therapeutic reagent to treat human pancreatic cancer by simultaneously blocking two critical targets.
PXD035837	36284765	Fast and high-throughput LC-MS characterization, and peptide mapping of engineered AAV capsids using LC-MS/MS. 	Fast & High Throughput LC-MS Characterization, and Peptide Mapping  of Engineered AAV Capsids Using LC-MS/MS	AAV capsids, Human Proteome Project, LCMS, MSMS, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), engineered AAV capsids, peptide map.	Adeno-associated virus (AAV) has emerged as a leading platform for gene therapy. With the skyrocketing rate of AAV research and the prevalence of many new engineered capsids being investigated in preclinical and clinical trials, capsid characterization plays a vital role in serotype confirmation and quality control. Further, peptide mapping the capsid proteins might inevitably be a future requirement by regulatory agencies since it is a critical step in good manufacturing practice (GMP) for biotherapeutic characterization. To overcome many challenges that traditional methods like SDS-PAGE and western blots carry, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry (LC-MS) allows high resolution and sensitivity with great accuracy in characterizing the AAV capsid proteins. Our optimized LC-MS method provides quick sample preparation, a fast and high-throughput 4-min run, and high sensitivity, which allows for very efficient characterization of wild-type and engineered capsids. This study also reports the usage of LC-MS/MS peptide mapping of AAV capsid proteins to determine the most accessible lysine residues targeted by chemical modifications. Our detailed protocols are anticipated to promote the development and discovery of AAV variants with high accuracy and efficiency.
PXD032991	36285346	Protein regulation mechanism of cold tolerance in Haemaphysalis longicornis. 	Protein regulation mechanism of cold tolerance in Haemaphysalis longicornis	Low temperature tolerance, Protein regulation, Survival strategy, Tick	Ticks are external parasitic arthropods that can transmit a variety of pathogens by sucking blood. Low-temperature tolerance is essential for ticks to survive during the cold winter. Exploring the protein regulation mechanism of low-temperature tolerance of Haemaphysalis longicornis could help to explain how ticks survive in winter. In this study, the quantitative proteomics of several tissues of H. longicornis exposed to low temperature were studied by data independent acquisition technology. Totals of 3 699, 3 422, and 1 958 proteins were identified in the salivary gland, midgut, and ovary, respectively. The proteins involved in energy metabolism, cell signal transduction, protein synthesis and repair, and cytoskeleton synthesis changed under low-temperature stress. The comprehensive analysis of the protein regulation of multiple tissues of female ticks exposed to low temperature showed that maintaining cell homeostasis, maintaining cell viability, and enhancing cell tolerance were the most important means for ticks to maintain vital signs under low temperature. The expression of proteins involved in and regulating the above cell activities was the key to the survival of ticks under low temperatures. Through the analysis of a large amount of data, we found that the expression levels of arylamine N-acetyltransferase, inositol polyphosphate multikinase, and dual-specificity phosphatase were up-regulated under low temperature. We speculated that they might have important significance in low-temperature tolerance. Then, we performed RNA interference on the mRNA of these 3 proteins, and the results showed that the ability of female ticks to tolerate low temperatures decreased significantly.
PXD033306	36286037	Cellular, Molecular and Proteomic Characteristics of Early Hepatocellular Carcinoma. 	Cellular, molecular and proteomic characteristics of early Hepatocellular carcinoma	CTCs, HCC, miRNAs	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) accounts for the majority of primary liver cancers. Early detection/diagnosis is vital for the prognosis of HCC, whereas diagnosis at late stages is associated with very low survival rate. Early diagnosis is based on 6-month surveillance of the patient and the use of at least two imaging modalities. The aim of this study was to investigate diagnostic markers for the detection of early HCC based on proteome analysis, microRNAs (miRNAs) and circulating tumor cells (CTCs) in the blood of patients with cirrhosis or early or advanced HCC. We studied 89 patients with HCC, of whom 33 had early HCC and 28 were cirrhotic. CTCs were detected by real-time quantitative reverse transcription PCR and immunofluorescence using the markers epithelial cell adhesion molecule (EPCAM), vimentin, alpha fetoprotein (aFP) and surface major vault protein (sMVP). Expression of the five most common HCC-involved miRNAs (miR-122, miR-200a, miR-200b, miR-221, miR-222) was examined in serum using quantitative real time PCR (qRT-PCR). Finally, patient serum was analyzed via whole proteome analysis (LC/MS). Of 53 patients with advanced HCC, 27 (51%) had detectable CTCs. Among these, 10/27 (37%) presented evidence of mesenchymal or intermediate stage cells (vimentin and/or sMVP positive). Moreover, 5/17 (29%) patients with early HCC and 2/28 (7%) cirrhotic patients had detectable CTCs. Patients with early or advanced HCC exhibited a significant increase in miR-200b when compared to cirrhotic patients. Our proteome analysis indicated that early HCC patients present a significant upregulation of APOA2, APOC3 proteins when compared to cirrhotic patients. When taken in combination, this covers the 100% of the patients with early HCC. miR-200b, APOA2 and APOC3 proteins are sensitive markers and can be potentially useful in combination for the early diagnosis of HCC.
PXD035901	36287021	Mineralize It or Not: Comparative Proteomics and Elemental Analysis Reveal Ancestral Compositions of Iron Mineralized Molluscan Radulae. 	comparative proteomics and elemental analysis reveal molecular adaption of Mollusca radula to different lifestyles	chtion, radula	The radula is a unique foraging organ to Mollusca, which is important for their evolution and taxonomic classification. Many radulae are mineralized with metals. Although the remarkable mechanical properties of mineralized radulae are well-studied, the formation of mineralization from nonmineralized radulae is poorly understood. Taking advantage of the recently sequenced octopus and chiton genomes, we were able to identify more species-specific radular proteins by proteomics. Comparing these proteomes with the known limpet radula proteome enabled us to gain insight into the molecular components of nonmineralized and mineralized radula, highlighting that iron mineralization in the chiton radula is possibly due to the evolution of ferritins and peroxiredoxins. Through an in vitro binding assay, ferritin is shown to be important to iron accumulation into the nonmineralized radula. Moreover, radular proteomes reflect their adaption to dietary habits to some extent. The octopus radula has many scaffold modification proteins to suit flexibility while the chiton radula has abundant sugar metabolism proteins (e.g., glycosyl hydrolases) to adapt to algae feeding. This study provides a foundation for the understanding of molluscan radula formation and evolution and may inspire the synthesis of iron nanomaterials.
PXD036466	36287984	Comparative Venom Proteomics of Iranian, Macrovipera lebetina cernovi, and Cypriot, Macrovipera lebetina lebetina, Giant Vipers. 	Venomics of Iranian and Cypriot Macrovipera lebetina	giant viper, venom	Envenoming by Macrovipera lebetina subspecies causes severe life-threatening difficulties for people living in North Africa and the Middle East. To better understand the pathophysiology of envenoming and improve patient management, knowledge about the venom components of the subspecies is essential. Here, the venom proteomes of Macrovipera lebetina lebetina from Cyprus and Macrovipera lebetina cernovi from Iran were characterized using RP-HPLC separation of the crude venom proteins, SDS-PAGE of fractionated proteins, and LC-MS/MS of peptides obtained from in-gel tryptic digestion of protein bands. Moreover, we also used high-resolution shot-gun proteomics to gain more reliable identification, where the whole venom proteomes were subjected directly to in-solution digestion before LC-HR-MS/MS. The data revealed that both venoms consisted of at least 18 protein families, of which snake venom Zn2+-dependent metalloprotease (SVMP), serine protease, disintegrin, phospholipase A2, C-type lectin-like, and L-amino acid oxidase, together accounted for more than 80% of the venoms' protein contents. Although the two viper venoms shared mostly similar protein classes, the relative occurrences of these toxins were different in each snake subspecies. For instance, P-I class of SVMP toxins were found to be more abundant than P-III class in the venoms of M. l. cernovi compared to M. l. lebetina, which gives hints at a more potent myonecrotic effect and minor systemic hemorrhage following envenoming by M. l. cernovi than M. l. lebetina. Moreover, single-shot proteomics also revealed many proteins with low abundance (<1%) within the venoms, such as aminopeptidase, hyaluronidase, glutaminyl-peptide cyclotransferase, cystatin, phospholipase B, and vascular endothelial growth factor. Our study extends the in-depth understanding of the venom complexity of M. lebetina subspecies, particularly regarding toxin families associated with envenoming pathogenesis and those hard-detected protein classes expressed in trace amounts.
PXD033391	36288299	Cytomegalovirus US28 regulates cellular EphA2 to maintain viral latency. 	Determining kinome changes in response to Cytomegalovirus US28 expression and identifying US28 interacting proteins	affinity purification-mass spectrometry, kinome, viral infection	Cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation from latency following immune dysregulation remains a serious risk for patients, often causing substantial morbidity and mortality. Here, we demonstrate the CMV-encoded G protein-coupled receptor, US28, in coordination with cellular Ephrin receptor A2, attenuates mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling, thereby limiting viral replication in latently infected primary monocytes. Furthermore, treatment of latently infected primary monocytes with dasatinib, a Food and Drug Association-approved kinase inhibitor used to treat a subset of leukemias, results in CMV reactivation. These ex vivo data correlate with our retrospective analyses of the Explorys electronic health record database, where we find dasatinib treatment is associated with a significant risk of CMV-associated disease (odds ratio 1.58, P = 0.0004). Collectively, our findings elucidate a signaling pathway that plays a central role in the balance between CMV latency and reactivation and identifies a common therapeutic cancer treatment that elevates the risk of CMV-associated disease.
PXD031872	36289199	Juxtaposition of Bub1 and Cdc20 on phosphorylated Mad1 during catalytic mitotic checkpoint complex assembly. 	Juxtaposition of Bub1 and Cdc20 on phosphorylated Mad1 during catalytic mitotic checkpoint complex assembly (IGX-MS data)	Bub1, Cdc20, Cell cycle, Mad1, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, mitotic checkpoint complex, spindle assembly checkpoint	In response to improper kinetochore-microtubule attachments in mitosis, the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) assembles the mitotic checkpoint complex (MCC) to inhibit the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome, thereby delaying entry into anaphase. The MCC comprises Mad2:Cdc20:BubR1:Bub3. Its assembly is catalysed by unattached kinetochores on a Mad1:Mad2 platform. Mad1-bound closed-Mad2 (C-Mad2) recruits open-Mad2 (O-Mad2) through self-dimerization. This interaction, combined with Mps1 kinase-mediated phosphorylation of Bub1 and Mad1, accelerates MCC assembly, in a process that requires O-Mad2 to C-Mad2 conversion and concomitant binding of Cdc20. How Mad1 phosphorylation catalyses MCC assembly is poorly understood. Here, we characterized Mps1 phosphorylation of Mad1 and obtained structural insights into a phosphorylation-specific Mad1:Cdc20 interaction. This interaction, together with the Mps1-phosphorylation dependent association of Bub1 and Mad1, generates a tripartite assembly of Bub1 and Cdc20 onto the C-terminal domain of Mad1 (Mad1(CTD)). We additionally identify flexibility of Mad1:Mad2 that suggests how the Cdc20:Mad1(CTD) interaction brings the Mad2-interacting motif (MIM) of Cdc20 near O-Mad2. Thus, Mps1-dependent formation of the MCC-assembly scaffold functions to position and orient Cdc20 MIM near O-Mad2, thereby catalysing formation of C-Mad2:Cdc20.
PXD028177	36289222	METTL3 acetylation impedes cancer metastasis via fine-tuning its nuclear and cytosolic functions. 	METTL3 acetylation sites recognition	acetylation SILAC	The methyltransferase like 3 (METTL3) has been generally recognized as a nuclear protein bearing oncogenic properties. We find predominantly cytoplasmic METTL3 expression inversely correlates with node metastasis in human cancers. It remains unclear if nuclear METTL3 is functionally distinct from cytosolic METTL3 in driving tumorigenesis and, if any, how tumor cells sense oncogenic insults to coordinate METTL3 functions within these intracellular compartments. Here, we report an acetylation-dependent regulation of METTL3 localization that impacts on metastatic dissemination. We identify an IL-6-dependent positive feedback axis to facilitate nuclear METTL3 functions, eliciting breast cancer metastasis. IL-6, whose mRNA transcript is subjected to METTL3-mediated m(6)A modification, promotes METTL3 deacetylation and nuclear translocation, thereby inducing global m(6)A abundance. This deacetylation-mediated nuclear shift of METTL3 can be counterbalanced by SIRT1 inhibition, a process that is further enforced by aspirin treatment, leading to ablated lung metastasis via impaired m(6)A methylation. Intriguingly, acetylation-mimetic METTL3 mutant reconstitution results in enhanced translation and compromised metastatic potential. Our study identifies an acetylation-dependent regulatory mechanism determining the subcellular localization of METTL3, which may provide mechanistic clues for developing therapeutic strategies to combat breast cancer metastasis.
PXD030279	36290573	Proteometabolomic Analysis Reveals Molecular Features Associated with Grain Size and Antioxidant Properties amongst Chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) Seeds Genotypes. 	Nutraceutical potential of small chickpea grain associated with significant stress response revealed by proteomics and metabolomics	ABA, LC-MS, Proteometabolomics, SPS, chickpea, nutraceutical properties	Legumes are an essential source of nutrients that complement energy and protein requirements in the human diet. They also contribute to the intake of bioactive compounds such as polyphenols, whose content can vary depending on cultivars and genotypes. We conducted a comparative proteomics and metabolomics study to determine if there were significant variations in relevant nutraceutical compounds in the five genotypes of Kabuli-type chickpea grains. We performed an isobaric tandem mass tag (TMT) couple to synchronous precursor selection (SPS)-MS3 method along with a targeted and untargeted metabolomics approach based on accurate mass spectrometry. We observed an association between the overproduction of proteins involved in starch, lipid, and amino acid metabolism with gibberellin accumulation in large grains. In contrast, we visualized the over-accumulation of proteins associated with water deprivation in small grains. It was possible to visualize in small grains the over-accumulation of some phenolics such as vanillin, salicylic acid, protocatechuic acid, 4-coumaric acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, vanillic acid, ferulic acid, and kaempferol 3-O-glucoside as well as the amino acid l-phenylalanine. The activated phenolic pathway was associated with the higher antioxidant capacity of small grains. Small grains consumption could be advantageous due to their nutraceutical properties.
PXD036438	36290782	Integrated Physiological, Transcriptomic, and Proteomic Analyses Reveal the Regulatory Role of Melatonin in Tomato Plants' Response to Low Night Temperature. 	Proteomic analysis of the effects of exogenous melatonin on the low night temperature resistance in tomato	low night temperature, melatonin, tomato	Melatonin is a direct free radical scavenger that has been demonstrated to increase plants' resistance to a variety of stressors. Here, we sought to examine the effect of melatonin on tomato seedlings subjected to low night temperatures using an integrated physiological, transcriptomic, and proteomic approach. We found that a pretreatment with 100 muM melatonin increased photosynthetic and transpiration rates, stomatal apertures, and peroxidase activity, and reduced chloroplast damage of the tomato plant under a low night temperature. The melatonin pretreatment reduced the photoinhibition of photosystem I by regulating the balance of both donor- and acceptor-side restriction of PSI and by increasing electron transport. Furthermore, the melatonin pretreatment improved the photosynthetic performance of proton gradient regulation 5 (SlPGR5) and SlPGR5-like photosynthetic phenotype 1 (SlPGRL1)-suppressed transformants under a low night temperature stress. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses found that the melatonin pretreatment resulted in the upregulation of genes and proteins related to transcription factors, signal transduction, environmental adaptation, and chloroplast integrity maintenance in low night temperature-stressed tomato plants. Collectively, our results suggest that melatonin can effectively improve the photosynthetic efficiency of tomato plants under a low night temperature and provide novel insights into the molecular mechanism of melatonin-mediated abiotic stress resistance.
PXD035281	36291090	Nuclear Proteomics of Induced Leukemia Cell Differentiation. 	Nuclear proteomics of induced granulocytic differentiation	ATRA, HL60, Nuclei, TMT	Studies of induced granulocytic differentiation help to reveal molecular mechanisms of cell maturation. The nuclear proteome represents a rich source of regulatory molecules, including transcription factors (TFs). It is important to have an understanding of molecular perturbations at the early stages of the differentiation processes. By applying the proteomic quantitative profiling using isobaric labeling, we found that the contents of 214, 319, 376, 426, and 391 proteins were altered at 3, 6, 9, 12, and 72 h, respectively, compared to 0 h in the HL-60 cell nuclear fraction under all-trans-retinoid acid (ATRA) treatment. From 1860 identified nuclear proteins, 231 proteins were annotated as proteins with transcription factor (TF) activity. Six TFs (RREB1, SRCAP, CCDC124, TRIM24, BRD7, and BUD31) were downregulated and three TFs EWSR1, ENO1, and FUS were upregulated at early time points (3-12 h) after ATRA treatment. Bioinformatic annotation indicates involvement of the HL-60 nuclear proteome in DNA damage recognition in the RUNX1-triggered pathway, and in the p53-regulation pathway. By applying scheduled multiple reaction monitoring using stable isotopically labeled peptide standards (MRM/SIS), we found a persistent increase in the content of the following proteins: PRAM1, CEPBP, RBPJ, and HIC1 in the HL-60 cell nuclear fraction during ATRA-induced granulocytic differentiation. In the case of STAT1, CASP3, PARP1, and PRKDC proteins, a transient increase in their content was observed at early time points (3-12 h) after the ATRA treatment. Obtained data on nuclear proteome composition and dynamics during granulocytic differentiation could be beneficial for the development of new treatment approaches for leukemias with the mutated p53 gene.
PXD024791	36291102	The C-Terminus of the PSMA3 Proteasome Subunit Preferentially Traps Intrinsically Disordered Proteins for Degradation. 	The C-terminus of the PSMA3 proteasome subunit preferentially traps intrinsically disordered proteins for degradation	disordered proteins, proteasome	The degradation of intrinsically disordered proteins (IDPs) by a non-26S proteasome process does not require proteasomal targeting by polyubiquitin. However, whether and how IDPs are recognized by the non-26S proteasome, including the 20S complex, remains unknown. Analyses of protein interactome datasets revealed that the 20S proteasome subunit, PSMA3, preferentially interacts with many IDPs. In vivo and cell-free experiments revealed that the C-terminus of PSMA3, a 69-amino-acids-long fragment, is an IDP trapper. A recombinant trapper is sufficient to interact with many IDPs, and blocks IDP degradation in vitro by the 20S proteasome, possibly by competing with the native trapper. In addition, over a third of the PSMA3 trapper-binding proteins have previously been identified as 20S proteasome substrates and, based on published datasets, many of the trapper-binding proteins are associated with the intracellular proteasomes. The PSMA3-trapped IDPs that are proteasome substrates have the unique features previously recognized as characteristic 20S proteasome substrates in vitro. We propose a model whereby the PSMA3 C-terminal region traps a subset of IDPs to facilitate their proteasomal degradation.
PXD035089	36291328	Embryonic Deletion of TXNIP in GABAergic Neurons Enhanced Oxidative Stress in PV+ Interneurons in Primary Somatosensory Cortex of Aging Mice: Relevance to Schizophrenia. 	Alteration of PFC proteome in  MK-801 induced schizophrenia-like adolescent mice	MK801, PFC proteome, Schizophrenia	The brain is susceptible to perturbations of redox balance, affecting neurogenesis and increasing the risks of psychiatric disorders. Thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) is an endogenous inhibitor of the thioredoxin antioxidant system. Its deletion or inhibition suggests protection for a brain with ischemic stroke or Alzheimer's disease. Combined with conditional knockout mice and schizophrenia samples, we aimed to investigate the function of TXNIP in healthy brain and psychiatric disorders, which are under-studied. We found TXNIP was remarkedly expressed in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) during healthy mice's prenatal and early postnatal periods, whereas it rapidly decreased throughout adulthood. During early life, TXNIP was primarily distributed in inhibitory and excitatory neurons. Contrary to the protective effect, the embryonic deletion of TXNIP in GABAergic (gamma-aminobutyric acid-ergic) neurons enhanced oxidative stress in PV(+) interneurons of aging mice. The deleterious impact was brain region-specific. We also investigated the relationship between TXNIP and schizophrenia. TXNIP was significantly increased in the PFC of schizophrenia-like mice after MK801 administration, followed by oxidative stress. First episode and drug naive schizophrenia patients with a higher level of plasma TXNIP displayed severer psychiatric symptoms than patients with a low level. We indicated a bidirectional function of TXNIP in the brain, whose high expression in the early stage is protective for development but might be harmful in a later period, associated with mental disorders.
PXD036996	36291610	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomics Analysis of Adriamycin Selected Multidrug Resistant Human Lung Cancer Cells. 	Lung Cancer Drug resistance LC-MS/MS	DLKP, biomarker, drug resistance, lung cancer	The development of drug resistance in lung cancer is a major clinical challenge, leading to a 5-year survival rate of only 18%. Therefore, unravelling the mechanisms of drug resistance and developing novel therapeutic strategies is of crucial importance. This study systematically explores the novel biomarkers of drug resistance using a lung cancer model (DLKP) with a series of drug-resistant variants. In-depth label-free quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics and gene ontology analysis shows that parental DLKP cells significantly differ from drug-resistant variants, and the cellular proteome changes even among the drug-resistant subpopulations. Overall, ABC transporter proteins and lipid metabolism were determined to play a significant role in the formation of drug resistance in DKLP cells. A series of membrane-related proteins such as HMOX1, TMB1, EPHX2 and NEU1 were identified to be correlated with levels of drug resistance in the DLKP subpopulations. The study also showed enrichment in biological processes and molecular functions such as drug metabolism, cellular response to the drug and drug binding. In gene ontology analysis, 18 proteins were determined to be positively or negatively correlated with resistance levels. Overall, 34 proteins which potentially have a therapeutic and diagnostic value were identified.
PXD037148	36291816	Changes of Protein Expression after CRISPR/Cas9 Knockout of miRNA-142 in Cell Lines Derived from Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma. 	Changes of Protein Expression after CRISPR/Cas9 Knockout of miRNA-142 in Cell Lines Derived from Diffuse large B-Cell Lymphoma  // Proteome Dataset	AKT1S1, CCNB1, CRISPR/Cas9, LIMA1, TFRC, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, miR-142 knockout cell lines, microRNA-142, transcriptomics	BACKGROUND: As microRNA-142 (miR-142) is the only human microRNA gene where mutations have consistently been found in about 20% of all cases of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL), we wanted to determine the impact of miR-142 inactivation on protein expression of DLBCL cell lines. METHODS: miR-142 was deleted by CRISPR/Cas9 knockout in cell lines from DLBCL. RESULTS: By proteome analyses, miR-142 knockout resulted in a consistent up-regulation of 52 but also down-regulation of 41 proteins in GC-DLBCL lines BJAB and SUDHL4. Various mitochondrial ribosomal proteins were up-regulated in line with their pro-tumorigenic properties, while proteins necessary for MHC-I presentation were down-regulated in accordance with the finding that miR-142 knockout mice have a defective immune response. CFL2, CLIC4, STAU1, and TWF1 are known targets of miR-142, and we could additionally confirm AKT1S1, CCNB1, LIMA1, and TFRC as new targets of miR-142-3p or -5p. CONCLUSIONS: Seed-sequence mutants of miR-142 confirmed potential targets and novel targets of miRNAs can be identified in miRNA knockout cell lines. Due to the complex contribution of miRNAs within cellular regulatory networks, in particular when miRNAs highly present in RISC complexes are replaced by other miRNAs, primary effects on gene expression may be covered by secondary layers of regulation.
PXD034198	36292811	Integrative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Analyses Revealed Complex Mechanisms Underlying Reproductive Diapause in Bombus terrestris Queens. 	Integrative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses reveal complex mechanisms of reproductive diapause in Bombus terretris queens (proteome)	Bombus terrestris, Diapause	Reproductive diapause is an overwintering strategy for Bombus terrestris, which is an important pollinator for agricultural production. However, the precise mechanisms underlying reproductive diapause in bumblebees remain largely unclear. Here, a combination analysis of proteomics and phosphoproteomics was used to reveal the mechanisms that occur during and after diapause in three different phases: diapause (D), postdiapause (PD), and founder postdiapause (FPD). In total, 4655 proteins and 10,600 phosphorylation sites of 3339 proteins were identified. Diapause termination and reactivation from D to the PD stage were characterized by the upregulation of proteins associated with ribosome assembly and biogenesis, transcription, and translation regulation in combination with the upregulation of phosphoproteins related to neural signal transmission, hormone biosynthesis and secretion, and energy-related metabolism. Moreover, the reproductive program was fully activated from PD to the FPD stage, as indicated by the upregulation of proteins related to fat digestion and absorption, the biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids, fatty acid elongation, protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum, and the upregulation of energy-related metabolism at the phosphoproteome level. We also predicted a kinase-substrate interaction network and constructed protein-protein networks of proteomic and phosphoproteomic data. These results will help to elucidate the mechanisms underlying the regulation of diapause in B. terrestris for year-round mass breeding.
PXD035817	36293151	Characterization of the RAS/RAF/ERK Signal Cascade as a Novel Regulating Factor in Alpha-Amanitin-Induced Cytotoxicity in Huh-7 Cells. 	Characterization of RAS/RAF/ERK signal cascade as a novel regulating factor in alpha-amanitin-induced liver injury	RAS/RAF/ERK signaling pathway, acute liver failure, alpha-amanitin, global phosphoproteome, toxic mushroom	The well-known hepatotoxicity mechanism resulting from alpha-amanitin (alpha-AMA) exposure arises from RNA polymerase II (RNAP II) inhibition. RNAP II inhibition occurs through the dysregulation of mRNA synthesis. However, the signaling pathways in hepatocytes that arise from alpha-AMA have not yet been fully elucidated. Here, we identified that the RAS/RAF/ERK signaling pathway was activated through quantitative phosphoproteomic and molecular biological analyses in Huh-7 cells. Bioinformatics analysis showed that alpha-AMA exposure increased protein phosphorylation in a time-dependent alpha-AMA exposure. In addition, phosphorylation increased not only the components of the ERK signaling pathway but also U2AF65 and SPF45, known splicing factors. Therefore, we propose a novel mechanism of alpha-AMA as follows. The RAS/RAF/ERK signaling pathway involved in aberrant splicing events is activated by alpha-AMA exposure followed by aberrant splicing events leading to cell death in Huh-7 cells.
PXD034898	36296163	Comparative Surfaceome Analysis of Clonal Histomonas meleagridis Strains with Different Pathogenicity Reveals Strain-Dependent Profiles. 	Comparative surfaceome analysis of clonal Histomonas meleagridis strains with different pathogenicity reveals strain-dependent profiles	Histomonas meleagridis, Surface proteome, attenuation, comparative proteomic analysis, protozoa, virulence factors	Histomonas meleagridis, a poultry-specific intestinal protozoan parasite, is histomonosis's etiological agent. Since treatment or prophylaxis options are no longer available in various countries, histomonosis can lead to significant production losses in chickens and mortality in turkeys. The surfaceome of microbial pathogens is a crucial component of host-pathogen interactions. Recent proteome and exoproteome studies on H. meleagridis produced molecular data associated with virulence and in vitro attenuation, yet the information on proteins exposed on the cell surface is currently unknown. Thus, in the present study, we identified 1485 proteins and quantified 22 and 45 upregulated proteins in the virulent and attenuated strains, respectively, by applying cell surface biotinylation in association with high-throughput proteomic analysis. The virulent strain displayed upregulated proteins that could be linked to putative virulence factors involved in the colonization and establishment of infection, with the upregulation of two candidates being confirmed by expression analysis. In the attenuated strain, structural, transport and energy production proteins were upregulated, supporting the protozoan's adaptation to the in vitro environment. These results provide a better understanding of the surface molecules involved in the pathogenesis of histomonosis, while highlighting the pathogen's in vitro adaptation processes.
PXD035496	36296301	Eggerthella lenta DSM 2243 Alleviates Bile Acid Stress Response in Clostridium ramosum and Anaerostipes caccae by Transformation of Bile Acids. 	Eggerthella lenta DSM 2243 alleviates bile acid stress response in Clostridium ramosum and Anaerostipes cacae by transformation of bile acids	Bile acids, Eggerthella lenta, Gut microbiome, Host-gut interaction, Metabolomics, Metaproteomics	Bile acids are crucial for the uptake of dietary lipids and can shape the gut-microbiome composition. This latter function is associated with the toxicity of bile acids and can be modulated by bile acid modifying bacteria such as Eggerthella lenta, but the molecular details of the interaction of bacteria depending on bile acid modifications are not well understood. In order to unravel the molecular response to bile acids and their metabolites, we cultivated eight strains from a human intestinal microbiome model alone and in co-culture with Eggerthella lenta in the presence of cholic acid (CA) and deoxycholic acid (DCA). We observed growth inhibition of particularly gram-positive strains such as Clostridium ramosum and the gram-variable Anaerostipes cacae by CA and DCA stress. C. ramosum was alleviated through co-culturing with Eggerthella lenta. We approached effects on the membrane by zeta potential and genotoxic and metabolic effects by (meta)proteomic and metabolomic analyses. Co-culturing with Eggerthella lenta decreased both CA and DCA by the formation of oxidized and epimerized bile acids. Eggerthella lenta also produces microbial bile salt conjugates in a co-cultured species-specific manner. This study highlights how the interaction with other bacteria can influence the functionality of bacteria.
PXD032928	36297425	Characterization of the Secretome of Pathogenic Candida glabrata and Their Effectiveness against Systemic Candidiasis in BALB/c Mice for Vaccine Development. 	Characterization of pathogenic Candida glabrata and their effectiveness against systemic candidiasis in BALB/c mice	Candida glabrata, LC-MS, Mouse model	Infections by non-albicans Candida species have increased drastically in the past few decades. Candida glabrata is one of the most common opportunistic fungal pathogens in immunocompromised individuals, owing to its capability to attach to various human cell types and medical devices and being intrinsically weakly susceptible to azoles. Immunotherapy, including the development of antifungal vaccines, has been recognized as an alternative approach for preventing and treating fungal infections. Secretory proteins play a crucial role in establishing host-pathogen interactions and are also responsible for eliciting an immune response in the host during candidiasis. Therefore, fungal secretomes can provide promising protein candidates for antifungal vaccine development. This study attempts to uncover the presence of immunodominant antigenic proteins in the C. glabrata secretome and delineate their role in various biological processes and their potency in the development of antifungal vaccines. LC-MS/MS results uncovered that C. glabrata secretome consisted of 583 proteins, among which 33 were identified as antigenic proteins. The protection ability of secretory proteins against hematogenously disseminated infection caused by C. glabrata was evaluated in BALB/c mice. After immunization and booster doses, all the animals were challenged with a lethal dose of C. glabrata. All the mice showing signs of distress were sacrificed post-infection, and target organs were collected, followed by histopathology and C. glabrata (CFU/mg) estimation. Our results showed a lower fungal burden in target organs and increased survival in immunized mice compared to the infection control group, thus revealing the immunogenic property of secreted proteins. Thus, identified secretome proteins of C. glabrata have the potential to act as antigenic proteins, which can serve as potential candidates for the development of antifungal vaccines. This study also emphasizes the importance of a mass-spectrometry approach to identifying the antigenic proteins in C. glabrata secretome.
PXD036402	36298696	Proteome Analysis of Swine Macrophages after Infection with Two Genotype II African Swine Fever Isolates of Different Pathogenicity. 	Proteome analysis of swine macrophages after infection with two genotype II African swine fever isolates of different pathogenicity	ASFV, African swine fever virus, pathogenicity, porcine macrophages	Since the introduction of a highly pathogenic genotype II isolate of the African swine fever virus (ASFV) into Georgia in 2007, African swine fever (ASF) has gone panzootic. Outbreaks have been reported in Europe, Asia and, more recently, Latin America. Thus, ASFV has become a major threat to the pig industry worldwide, as broadly applicable vaccines are not available. While the majority of ASFV strains show high virulence in domestic pigs and wild boar, variations within the ASFV genome have resulted in the emergence of attenuated strains with low or moderate virulence. However, the molecular basis of the differences in virulence has not yet been discovered. To reveal virulence-associated protein expression patterns, we analysed the proteomes of the natural target cells of ASFV, primary porcine macrophages, after infection with two genotype II ASFV strains displaying high (Armenia 2008) and moderate (Estonia 2014) virulence using quantitative mass spectrometry. Very similar expression patterns were observed for the viral genes, and any differences were limited to the deletions within the Estonia 2014 genome. In addition to the canonical ASFV proteins, twelve novel protein products from recently described transcripts were confirmed in both isolates. Pathway analyses showed that both isolates evoked a similar host proteome response, despite their difference in virulence. However, subtle differences in the manipulation of the proteins involved in the proinflammatory response mediated by the MAPK14/p38 signalling cascade were observed.
PXD034583	36298760	Catching the Wave: Detecting Strain-Specific SARS-CoV-2 Peptides in Clinical Samples Collected during Infection Waves from Diverse Geographical Locations. 	ADR-directly-interfering amino acids based on competitive isoTOP-ABPP in normoxia	andrographolide	The Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic caused by the severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) resulted in a major health crisis worldwide with its continuously emerging new strains, resulting in new viral variants that drive "waves" of infection. PCR or antigen detection assays have been routinely used to detect clinical infections; however, the emergence of these newer strains has presented challenges in detection. One of the alternatives has been to detect and characterize variant-specific peptide sequences from viral proteins using mass spectrometry (MS)-based methods. MS methods can potentially help in both diagnostics and vaccine development by understanding the dynamic changes in the viral proteome associated with specific strains and infection waves. In this study, we developed an accessible, flexible, and shareable bioinformatics workflow that was implemented in the Galaxy Platform to detect variant-specific peptide sequences from MS data derived from the clinical samples. We demonstrated the utility of the workflow by characterizing published clinical data from across the world during various pandemic waves. Our analysis identified six SARS-CoV-2 variant-specific peptides suitable for confident detection by MS in commonly collected clinical samples.
PXD036455	36298840	Recombinant Human Cytomegalovirus Expressing an Analog-Sensitive Kinase pUL97 as Novel Tool for Functional Analyses. 	Proteome after 3MB-PP1 treatment	TMT	The human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is a member of the beta-herpesvirus family and inflicts life-long latent infections in its hosts. HCMV has been shown to manipulate and dysregulate many cellular processes. One major interactor with the cellular host is the viral kinase pUL97. The UL97 gene is essential for viral replication, and kinase-deficient mutants of pUL97 display a severe replication defect. Recently, another group established an analog-sensitive version of the pUL97 protein. This mutant kinase can be treated with a non-hydrolysable ATP analog, thereby inhibiting its kinase function. This process is reversible by removing the ATP analog by media change. We introduced this mutant version of the pUL97 protein into the laboratory strain Ad169 of HCMV, BADwt, creating a BAD-UL97-as1 viral mutant. This mutant virus replicated normally in infected cells in the absence of the ATP analog and maintained its ability to phosphorylate its cellular substrates. However, when treated with the ATP analog, BAD-UL97-as1 displayed a defect in the production of intra- and extracellular viral DNA and in the production of viral progeny. Furthermore, in the presence of 3MB-PP1, a well-established substrate of pUL97 was no longer hyperphosphorylated. This effect was detectable as early as 4 h post treatment, which allows for studies on pUL97 without the complication of low viral titers. Nevertheless, we observed off-target effects of 3MB-PP1 on several cellular processes, which should be considered with this approach.
PXD034465	36302222	Senescence Rewires Microenvironment Sensing to Facilitate Antitumor Immunity. 	Surface proteome profiling of p53-restorable murine liver cancer cells	Surface proteome, liver cancer, p53 restoration, senescence	Cellular senescence involves a stable cell-cycle arrest coupled to a secretory program that, in some instances, stimulates the immune clearance of senescent cells. Using an immune-competent liver cancer model in which senescence triggers CD8 T cell-mediated tumor rejection, we show that senescence also remodels the cell-surface proteome to alter how tumor cells sense environmental factors, as exemplified by type II interferon (IFNgamma). Compared with proliferating cells, senescent cells upregulate the IFNgamma receptor, become hypersensitized to microenvironmental IFNgamma, and more robustly induce the antigen-presenting machinery-effects also recapitulated in human tumor cells undergoing therapy-induced senescence. Disruption of IFNgamma sensing in senescent cells blunts their immune-mediated clearance without disabling the senescence state or its characteristic secretory program. Our results demonstrate that senescent cells have an enhanced ability to both send and receive environmental signals and imply that each process is required for their effective immune surveillance. SIGNIFICANCE: Our work uncovers an interplay between tissue remodeling and tissue-sensing programs that can be engaged by senescence in advanced cancers to render tumor cells more visible to the adaptive immune system. This new facet of senescence establishes reciprocal heterotypic signaling interactions that can be induced therapeutically to enhance antitumor immunity. See related article by Marin et al., p. 410. This article is highlighted in the In This Issue feature, p. 247.
PXD036424	36302387	Proteomic identification and structural basis for the interaction between sorting nexin SNX17 and PDLIM family proteins. 	Proteomic identification and structural basis for the interaction between sorting nexin SNX17 and PDLIM family proteins	Commander, PDLIM, PDZ domain, Retriever, SNX17, endosome	The sorting nexin SNX17 controls endosomal recycling of transmembrane cargo proteins including integrins, the amyloid precursor protein, and lipoprotein receptors. This requires association with the Commander trafficking complex and depends on the C terminus of SNX17 through unknown mechanisms. Using proteomics, we find that the SNX17 C terminus is sufficient for Commander interaction and also associates with members of the PDZ and LIM domain (PDLIM) family. SNX17 contains a type III PDZ binding motif that binds specifically to the PDLIM proteins. The structure of the PDLIM7 PDZ domain bound to the SNX17 C terminus reveals an unconventional perpendicular peptide interaction mediated by electrostatic contacts and a uniquely conserved proline-containing loop sequence in the PDLIM protein family. Our results define the mechanism of SNX17-PDLIM interaction and suggest that the PDLIM proteins may play a role in regulating the activity of SNX17 in conjunction with Commander and actin-rich endosomal trafficking domains.
PXD037275	36302783	Direct cell-to-cell transfer in stressed tumor microenvironment aggravates tumorigenic or metastatic potential in pancreatic cancer. 	Direct cell-to-cell transfer in stressed tumor microenvironment aggravates tumorigenic or metastatic potential in pancreatic cancer	cell-to-cell transfer, gemcitabine, metabostemness, pancreatic cancer, tumor microenvironment	Pancreatic cancer exhibits a characteristic tumor microenvironment (TME) due to enhanced fibrosis and hypoxia and is particularly resistant to conventional chemotherapy. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying TME-associated treatment resistance in pancreatic cancer are not fully understood. Here, we developed an in vitro TME mimic system comprising pancreatic cancer cells, fibroblasts and immune cells, and a stress condition, including hypoxia and gemcitabine. Cells with high viability under stress showed evidence of increased direct cell-to-cell transfer of biomolecules. The resulting derivative cells (CD44(high)/SLC16A1(high)) were similar to cancer stem cell-like-cells (CSCs) with enhanced anchorage-independent growth or invasiveness and acquired metabolic reprogramming. Furthermore, CD24 was a determinant for transition between the tumorsphere formation or invasive properties. Pancreatic cancer patients with CD44(low)/SLC16A1(low) expression exhibited better prognoses compared to other groups. Our results suggest that crosstalk via direct cell-to-cell transfer of cellular components foster chemotherapy-induced tumor evolution and that targeting of CD44 and MCT1(encoded by SLC16A1) may be useful strategy to prevent recurrence of gemcitabine-exposed pancreatic cancers.
PXD036393	36304107	Hypothesis-generating proteome perturbation to identify NEU-4438 and acoziborole modes of action in the African Trypanosome. 	Hypothesis-generating Proteome Perturbation to Identify Molecular Modes of Drug Action: NEU-4438 and Acoziborole in the African Trypanosome	Acoziborole, Human African Trypanosomiasis, NEU-4438, SCYX-7158, SILAC, Trypanosoma brucei, drug-perturbome proteomics	NEU-4438 is a lead for the development of drugs against Trypanosoma brucei, which causes human African trypanosomiasis. Optimized with phenotypic screening, targets of NEU-4438 are unknown. Herein, we present a cell perturbome workflow that compares NEU-4438's molecular modes of action to those of SCYX-7158 (acoziborole). Following a 6 h perturbation of trypanosomes, NEU-4438 and acoziborole reduced steady-state amounts of 68 and 92 unique proteins, respectively. After analysis of proteomes, hypotheses formulated for modes of action were tested: Acoziborole and NEU-4438 have different modes of action. Whereas NEU-4438 prevented DNA biosynthesis and basal body maturation, acoziborole destabilized CPSF3 and other proteins, inhibited polypeptide translation, and reduced endocytosis of haptoglobin-hemoglobin. These data point to CPSF3-independent modes of action for acoziborole. In case of polypharmacology, the cell-perturbome workflow elucidates modes of action because it is target-agnostic. Finally, the workflow can be used in any cell that is amenable to proteomic and molecular biology experiments.
PXD034147	36304541	Serum peptidomic screening identified circulating peptide biomarkers predictive for preeclampsia. 	Serum peptidomic screening identified circulating peptide biomarkers	Serum peptidomic, preeclampsia	Background: Reliable biomarkers are needed to improve preeclampsia (PE) prediction accuracy. With the investigational tool of peptidomics, we aimed to identify and validate potential serum peptide biomarkers in cohorts suspected for PE development in middle or late pregnancy. Methods: Totally 195 serum samples were prospectively collected from pregnant women with PE-related syndromes who were followed up for PE development until delivery. Serum peptidomic analysis was performed in the discovery cohort of 115 samples using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time of flight coupled with Linear Trap Quadropole Orbitrap mass spectrometry. The candidate biomarkers were further validated using an in-house developed liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method in an independent validation cohort of 80 serum samples. Results: We identified 8 peptides that were differentially expressed and originated from fibrinogen alpha chain (FGA), inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H4 (ITIH4) and complement component 3. In the subsequent LC-MS/MS quantitation analysis, the levels of the three peptides (FGA-1033.4, ITIH4-2026.9, ITIH4-2051.1) exhibited a significant difference between the PE-positive and PE-negative groups. Further, the three-peptide panel yielded an area under the ROC curve (AUC) of 0.985 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.965-1.000] and 0.923 (95% CI 0.845-1.000) in the discovery and validation cohorts respectively, with negative predictive values of 98.1-98.8% and positive predictive values of 73.1-85.3% that were much improved when compared with that of soluble fms-like tyrosine kinase-1/placental growth factor (sFlt-1/PlGF) ratio. Conclusions: We have discovered and validated a novel three-peptide biomarker panel predictive for the occurrence PE in pregnant women.
PXD038012	36306217	Testis-specific serine kinase 3 is required for sperm morphogenesis and male fertility. 	Testis-specific serine kinase 3 is required for sperm morphogenesis and male fertility	Knockout mouse, oligoteratozoospermia, oligozoospermia, teratozoospermia	BACKGROUND: The importance of phosphorylation in sperm during spermatogenesis has not been pursued extensively. Testis-specific serine kinase 3 (Tssk3) is a conserved gene, but TSSK3 kinase functions and phosphorylation substrates of TSSK3 are not known. OBJECTIVE: The goals of our studies were to understand the mechanism of action of TSSK3. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We analyzed the localization of TSSK3 in sperm, used CRISPR/Cas9 to generate Tssk3 knockout (KO) mice in which nearly all of the Tssk3 open reading frame was deleted (ensuring it is a null mutation), analyzed the fertility of Tssk3 KO mice by breeding mice for 4 months, and conducted phosphoproteomics analysis of male testicular germ cells. RESULTS: TSSK3 is expressed in elongating sperm and localizes to the sperm tail. To define the essential roles of TSSK3 in vivo, heterozygous (HET) or homozygous KO male mice were mated with wild-type females, and fertility was assessed over 4 months; Tssk3 KO males are sterile, whereas HET males produced normal litter sizes. The absence of TSSK3 results in disorganization of all stages of testicular seminiferous epithelium and significantly increased vacuolization of germ cells, leading to dramatically reduced sperm counts and abnormal sperm morphology; despite these histologic changes, Tssk3 null mice have normal testis size. To elucidate the mechanisms causing the KO phenotype, we conducted phosphoproteomics using purified germ cells from Tssk3 HET and KO testes. We found that proteins implicated in male infertility, such as GAPDHS, ACTL7A, ACTL9, and REEP6, showed significantly reduced phosphorylation in KO testes compared to HET testes, despite unaltered total protein levels. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated that TSSK3 is essential for male fertility and crucial for phosphorylation of multiple infertility-related proteins. These studies and the pathways in which TSSK3 functions have implications for human male infertility and nonhormonal contraception.
PXD033016	36306373	Coisolation of Peptide Pairs for Peptide Identification and MS/MS-Based Quantification. 	Coisolation of peptide pairs for peptide identification and MS/MS-based quantification	Comet, MS/MS, SILAC, peptide pairs, quantification	Stable-isotope labeling with amino acids in cell culture (SILAC)-based metabolic labeling is a widely adopted proteomics approach that enables quantitative comparisons among a variety of experimental conditions. Despite its quantitative capacity, SILAC experiments analyzed with data-dependent acquisition (DDA) do not fully leverage peptide pair information for identification and suffer from undersampling compared to label-free proteomic experiments. Herein, we developed a DDA strategy that coisolates and fragments SILAC peptide pairs and uses y-ions for their relative quantification. To facilitate the analysis of this type of data, we adapted the Comet sequence database search engine to make use of SILAC peptide paired fragments and developed a tool to annotate and quantify MS/MS spectra of coisolated SILAC pairs. This peptide pair coisolation approach generally improved expectation scores compared to the traditional DDA approach. Fragment ion quantification performed similarly well to precursor quantification in the MS1 and achieved more quantifications. Lastly, our method enables reliable MS/MS quantification of SILAC proteome mixtures with overlapping isotopic distributions. This study shows the feasibility of the coisolation approach. Coupling this approach with intelligent acquisition strategies has the potential to improve SILAC peptide sampling and quantification.
PXD035507	36306991	A deep redox proteome profiling workflow and its application to skeletal muscle of a Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy model. 	Engineering Transcriptional Regulation of Pentose Metabolism in Rhodosporidium toruloides for Improved Conversion of Xylose to Bioproducts	glycerol, metabolism, xylose	Perturbation to the redox state accompanies many diseases and its effects are viewed through oxidation of biomolecules, including proteins, lipids, and nucleic acids. The thiol groups of protein cysteine residues undergo an array of redox post-translational modifications (PTMs) that are important for regulation of protein and pathway function. To better understand what proteins are redox regulated following a perturbation, it is important to be able to comprehensively profile protein thiol oxidation at the proteome level. Herein, we report a deep redox proteome profiling workflow and demonstrate its application in measuring the changes in thiol oxidation along with global protein expression in skeletal muscle from mdx mice, a model of Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD). In-depth coverage of the thiol proteome was achieved with >18,000 Cys sites from 5,608 proteins in muscle being quantified. Compared to the control group, mdx mice exhibit markedly increased thiol oxidation, where a ~2% shift in the median oxidation occupancy was observed. Pathway analysis for the redox data revealed that coagulation system and immune-related pathways were among the most susceptible to increased thiol oxidation in mdx mice, whereas protein abundance changes were more enriched in pathways associated with bioenergetics. This study illustrates the importance of deep redox profiling in gaining greater insight into oxidative stress regulation and pathways/processes that are perturbed in an oxidizing environment.
PXD032022	36307396	Knockdown of METTL16 disrupts learning and memory by reducing the stability of MAT2A mRNA. 	The role and mechanism of METTL16 in Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimers disease., MAT2A, METTL16, N6-methyladenosine (m6A), SAM	N6-methyladenosine (m(6)A) is abundant in the mammalian brain and is considered to have a wide range of effects on learning and memory. Here, we found that the upregulated methyltransferase-like protein 16 (METTL16) in the hippocampal tissues of Morris water maze (MWM)-trained mice contributed to improved memory formation and hippocampal synaptic plasticity. Mechanismly, METTL16 promoted the expression of methionine adenosyltransferase 2A (MAT2A) by the m(6)A methylation of the MAT2A mRNA-3'UTR-end to increase its stability, and this involved in improving hippocampal global m(6)A levels, plasticity of dendritic spine, learning and memory. This study provides a new perspective to explore the regulatory mechanisms of m(6)A for learning and memory.
PXD031467	36307579	Integrated proteogenomic characterization across major histological types of pituitary neuroendocrine tumors. 	Integrated Proteogenomic Characterization across Major Histological Types of Pituitary Neuroendocrine Tumors	EGFR, EMT, GNAS CNV gain, Immune microenvironment, PitNETs, Proteogenomics	Pituitary neuroendocrine tumor (PitNET) is one of the most common intracranial tumors. Due to its extensive tumor heterogeneity and the lack of high-quality tissues for biomarker discovery, the causative molecular mechanisms are far from being fully defined. Therefore, more studies are needed to improve the current clinicopathological classification system, and advanced treatment strategies such as targeted therapy and immunotherapy are yet to be explored. Here, we performed the largest integrative genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and phosphoproteomics analysis reported to date for a cohort of 200 PitNET patients. Genomics data indicate that GNAS copy number gain can serve as a reliable diagnostic marker for hyperproliferation of the PIT1 lineage. Proteomics-based classification of PitNETs identified 7 clusters, among which, tumors overexpressing epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) markers clustered into a more invasive subgroup. Further analysis identified potential therapeutic targets, including CDK6, TWIST1, EGFR, and VEGFR2, for different clusters. Immune subtyping to explore the potential for application of immunotherapy in PitNET identified an association between alterations in the JAK1-STAT1-PDL1 axis and immune exhaustion, and between changes in the JAK3-STAT6-FOS/JUN axis and immune infiltration. These identified molecular markers and alternations in various clusters/subtypes were further confirmed in an independent cohort of 750 PitNET patients. This proteogenomic analysis across traditional histological boundaries improves our current understanding of PitNET pathophysiology and suggests novel therapeutic targets and strategies.
PXD032360	36309013	The Toxoplasma effector GRA28 promotes parasite dissemination by inducing dendritic cell-like migratory properties in infected macrophages. 	MS-based proteomic characterization of Toxoplasma gondii GRA28-associated complexes	Apicomplexa, GRA28, affinity purification, chemotaxis, host-pathogen, intracellular parasitism, nanoLC-MSMS	Upon pathogen detection, macrophages normally stay sessile in tissues while dendritic cells (DCs) migrate to secondary lymphoid tissues. The obligate intracellular protozoan Toxoplasma gondii exploits the trafficking of mononuclear phagocytes for dissemination via unclear mechanisms. We report that, upon T. gondii infection, macrophages initiate the expression of transcription factors normally attributed to DCs, upregulate CCR7 expression with a chemotactic response, and perform systemic migration when adoptively transferred into mice. We show that parasite effector GRA28, released by the MYR1 secretory pathway, cooperates with host chromatin remodelers in the host cell nucleus to drive the chemotactic migration of parasitized macrophages. During in vivo challenge studies, bone marrow-derived macrophages infected with wild-type T. gondii outcompeted those challenged with MYR1- or GRA28-deficient strains in migrating and reaching secondary organs. This work reveals how an intracellular parasite hijacks chemotaxis in phagocytes and highlights a remarkable migratory plasticity in differentiated cells of the mononuclear phagocyte system.
PXD033111	36309071	Proteomics and histological assessment of an organotypic model of human skin following exposure to Naja nigricollis venom. 	An organotypic model of human skin simulates the dermonecrotic effects of Naja nigricollis envenoming	3D cell culture, Cytotoxin, DDA, Dermonecrosis, Keratinocyte, Naja nigricollis, Skin organotypic, Snakebite envenoming	Snakebite envenoming was reintroduced as a Category A Neglected Tropical Disease by the World Health Organization in 2017. Since then, increased attention has been directed towards this affliction and towards the development of a deeper understanding of how snake venoms exert their toxic effects and how antivenoms can counter them. However, most of our in vivo generated knowledge stems from the use of animal models which do not always accurately reflect how the pathogenic effects of snake venoms manifest in humans. Moreover, animal experiments are associated with pain, distress, and eventually animal sacrifice due to the toxic nature of snake venoms. Related to this, the implementation of the 3Rs principle (Replacement, Reduction, and Refinement) in the use of experimental animals in snakebite envenoming research is recommended by the World Health Organization. Therefore, more humane experimental designs and new in vitro/ex vivo alternatives for experimental animals are sought after. Here, we report the use of an organotypic model of human skin to further elucidate the pathophysiology of the dermonecrotic effects caused by the venom of the black-necked spitting cobra, Naja nigricollis, in humans. The goal of this study is to expand the repertoire of available models that can be used to study the local tissue damages induced by cytotoxic venoms.
PXD032219	36309312	Glycoproteomics Landscape of Asymptomatic and Symptomatic Human Alzheimer's Disease Brain. 	Glycoproteomics Landscape of Asymptomatic and Symptomatic Human Alzheimer's Disease Brain	Alzheimers, glycoproteins, glycoproteomics	Molecular changes in the brain of individuals afflicted with Alzheimer's disease (AD) are an intense area of study. Little is known about the role of protein abundance and posttranslational modifications in AD progression and treatment, in particular large-scale intact N-linked glycoproteomics analysis. To elucidate the N-glycoproteome landscape, we developed an approach based on multi-lectin affinity enrichment, hydrophilic interaction chromatography, and LC-MS-based glycoproteomics. We analyzed brain tissue from 10 persons with no cognitive impairment or AD, 10 with asymptomatic AD, and 10 with symptomatic AD, detecting over 300 glycoproteins and 1900 glycoforms across the samples. The majority of glycoproteins have N-glycans that are high-mannosidic or complex chains that are fucosylated and bisected. The Man5 N-glycan was found to occur most frequently at >20% of the total glycoforms. Unlike the glycoproteomes of other tissues, sialylation is a minor feature of the brain N-glycoproteome, occurring at <9% among the glycoforms. We observed AD-associated differences in the number of antennae, frequency of fucosylation, bisection, and other monosaccharides at individual glycosylation sites among samples from our three groups. Further analysis revealed glycosylation differences in subcellular compartments across disease stage, including glycoproteins in the lysosome frequently modified with paucimannosidic glycans. These results illustrate the N-glycoproteomics landscape across the spectrum of AD clinical and pathologic severity and will facilitate a deeper understanding of progression and treatment development.
PXD025399	36309313	Global Phosphoproteomics Unveils Kinase-Regulated Networks in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. 	Global Phosphoproteomics Reveals Molecular Networks in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus	Kinases, Phosproteomics, SLE active stage, SLE remission stage, parallel reaction monitoring	Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an autoimmune disorder characterized by immune complex deposition in multiple organs. Despite the severe symptoms caused by it, the underlying mechanisms of SLE, especially phosphorylation-dependent regulatory networks remain elusive. Herein, by combining high-throughput phosphoproteomics with bioinformatics approaches, we established the global phosphoproteome landscape of the peripheral blood mononuclear cells from a large number of SLE patients, including the remission stage (SLE_S), active stage (SLE_A), rheumatoid arthritis, and healthy controls, and thus a deep mechanistic insight into SLE signaling mechanism was yielded. Phosphorylation upregulation was preferentially in patients with SLE (SLE_S and SLE_A) compared with healthy controls and rheumatoid arthritis populations, resulting in an atypical enrichment in cell adhesion and migration signatures. Several specifically upregulated phosphosites were identified, and the leukocyte transendothelial migration pathway was enriched in the SLE_A group by expression pattern clustering analysis. Phosphosites identified by 4D-label-free quantification unveiled key kinases and kinase-regulated networks in SLE, then further validated by parallel reaction monitoring. Some of these validated phosphosites including vinculin S275, vinculin S579 and transforming growth factor beta-1-induced transcript 1 S68, primarily were phosphorylation of Actin Cytoskeleton -related proteins. Some predicted kinases including MAP3K7, TBK1, IKKbeta, and GSK3beta, were validated by Western blot using kinases phosphorylation sites-specific antibodies. Taken together, the study has yielded fundamental insights into the phosphosites, kinases, and kinase-regulated networks in SLE. The map of the global phosphoproteomics enables further understanding of this disease and will provide great help for seeking more potential therapeutic targets for SLE.
PXD036072	36309524	Glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase 1 coordinates early endosomal anti-inflammatory AKT signaling. 	Glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase 1 coordinates early endosomal anti-inflammatory AKT signaling	Aminoacyl-tRNA Synthetase, Anti-inflammatory Signaling Complex, Early Endosome, Glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA Synthetase 1, Inflammation, Multi-tRNA Synthetase Complex, PI3K/AKT Signaling Pathway, Phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate	The AKT signaling pathway plays critical roles in the resolution of inflammation. However, the underlying mechanisms of anti-inflammatory regulation and signal coordination remain unclear. Here, we report that anti-inflammatory AKT signaling is coordinated by glutamyl-prolyl-tRNA synthetase 1 (EPRS1). Upon inflammatory activation, AKT specifically phosphorylates Ser999 of EPRS1 in the cytoplasmic multi-tRNA synthetase complex, inducing release of EPRS1. EPRS1 compartmentalizes AKT to early endosomes via selective binding to the endosomal membrane lipid phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate and assembles an AKT signaling complex specific for anti-inflammatory activity. These events promote AKT activation-mediated GSK3beta phosphorylation, which increase anti-inflammatory cytokine production. EPRS1-deficient macrophages do not assemble the early endosomal complex and consequently exacerbate inflammation, decreasing the survival of EPRS1-deficient mice undergoing septic shock and ulcerative colitis. Collectively, our findings show that the housekeeping protein EPRS1 acts as a mediator of inflammatory homeostasis by coordinating compartment-specific AKT signaling.
PXD037393	36309735	Synaptic proteomics reveal distinct molecular signatures of cognitive change and C9ORF72 repeat expansion in the human ALS cortex. 	Synaptic proteomics reveal distinct molecular signatures of cognitive change and C9ORF72 repeat expansion in the human ALS cortex	ALS, C9ORF72, FTD, human brain, synapse	Increasing evidence suggests synaptic dysfunction is a central and possibly triggering factor in Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). Despite this, we still know very little about the molecular profile of an ALS synapse. To address this gap, we designed a synaptic proteomics experiment to perform an unbiased assessment of the synaptic proteome in the ALS brain. We isolated synaptoneurosomes from fresh-frozen post-mortem human cortex (11 controls and 18 ALS) and stratified the ALS group based on cognitive profile (Edinburgh Cognitive and Behavioural ALS Screen (ECAS score)) and presence of a C9ORF72 hexanucleotide repeat expansion (C9ORF72-RE). This allowed us to assess regional differences and the impact of phenotype and genotype on the synaptic proteome, using Tandem Mass Tagging-based proteomics. We identified over 6000 proteins in our synaptoneurosomes and using robust bioinformatics analysis we validated the strong enrichment of synapses. We found more than 30 ALS-associated proteins in synaptoneurosomes, including TDP-43, FUS, SOD1 and C9ORF72. We identified almost 500 proteins with altered expression levels in ALS, with region-specific changes highlighting proteins and pathways with intriguing links to neurophysiology and pathology. Stratifying the ALS cohort by cognitive status revealed almost 150 specific alterations in cognitively impaired ALS synaptic preparations. Stratifying by C9ORF72-RE status revealed 330 protein alterations in the C9ORF72-RE +ve group, with KEGG pathway analysis highlighting strong enrichment for postsynaptic dysfunction, related to glutamatergic receptor signalling. We have validated some of these changes by western blot and at a single synapse level using array tomography imaging. In summary, we have generated the first unbiased map of the human ALS synaptic proteome, revealing novel insight into this key compartment in ALS pathophysiology and highlighting the influence of cognitive decline and C9ORF72-RE on synaptic composition.
PXD037453	36310239	Tracking matricellular protein SPARC in extracellular vesicles as a non-destructive method to evaluate lipid-based antifibrotic treatments. 	Tracking matricellular protein SPARC in extracellular vesicles as a non-destructive method to evaluate lipid-based antifibrotic treatments	EAF4, HSC, NTA, SPARC, essential phospholipids, extracellular vesicles, liver fibrosis, polyenylphosphatidylcholines	Uncovering the complex cellular mechanisms underlying hepatic fibrogenesis could expedite the development of effective treatments and noninvasive diagnosis for liver fibrosis. The biochemical complexity of extracellular vesicles (EVs) and their role in intercellular communication make them an attractive tool to look for biomarkers as potential alternative to liver biopsies. We developed a solid set of methods to isolate and characterize EVs from differently treated human hepatic stellate cell (HSC) line LX-2, and we investigated their biological effect onto naive LX-2, proving that EVs do play an active role in fibrogenesis. We mined our proteomic data for EV-associated proteins whose expression correlated with HSC treatment, choosing the matricellular protein SPARC as proof-of-concept for the feasibility of fluorescence nanoparticle-tracking analysis to determine an EV-based HSCs' fibrogenic phenotype. We thus used EVs to directly evaluate the efficacy of treatment with S80, a polyenylphosphatidylcholines-rich lipid, finding that S80 reduces the relative presence of SPARC-positive EVs. Here we correlated the cellular response to lipid-based antifibrotic treatment to the relative presence of a candidate protein marker associated with the released EVs. Along with providing insights into polyenylphosphatidylcholines treatments, our findings pave the way for precise and less invasive diagnostic analyses of hepatic fibrogenesis.
PXD035106	36310866	Identification of new components of the basal pole of Toxoplasma gondii provides novel insights into its molecular organization and functions. 	Proteomic analysis of BioID experiments performed with Toxoplasma gondii MyoJ protein tagged with TurboID in tachyzoites	MyoJ, Toxoplasma gondii, proximity labelling	The Toxoplasma gondii tachyzoite is a singled-cell obligate intracellular parasite responsible for the acute phase of toxoplasmosis. This polarized cell exhibits an apical complex, a hallmark of the phylum Apicomplexa, essential for motility, invasion, and egress from the host cell. Located on the opposite end of the cell is the basal complex, an elaborated cytoskeletal structure that also plays critical roles in the lytic cycle of the parasite, being involved in motility, cell division, constriction and cytokinesis, as well as intravacuolar cell-cell communication. Nevertheless, only a few proteins of this structure have been described and functionally assessed. In this study, we used spatial proteomics to identify new basal complex components (BCC), and in situ imaging, including ultrastructure expansion microscopy, to position them. We thus confirmed the localization of nine BCCs out of the 12 selected candidates and assigned them to different sub-compartments of the basal complex, including two new domains located above the basal ring and below the posterior cup. Their functional investigation revealed that none of these BCCs are essential for parasite growth in vitro. However, one BCC is critical for constricting of the basal complex, likely through direct interaction with the class VI myosin heavy chain J (MyoJ), and for gliding motility. Four other BCCs, including a phosphatase and a guanylate-binding protein, are involved in the formation and/or maintenance of the intravacuolar parasite connection, which is required for the rosette organization and synchronicity of cell division.
PXD035545	36311798	African swine fever virus infection activates inflammatory responses through downregulation of the anti-inflammatory molecule C1QTNF3. 	the analysis of sus scrofa serum LC-MS/MS after african swine fever virus infection	sus scrofa serum LC-MS/MS	African swine fever (ASF) is the most dangerous pig disease, and causes enormous economic losses in the global pig industry. However, the mechanisms of ASF virus (ASFV) infection remains largely unclear. Hence, this study investigated the host response mechanisms to ASFV infection. We analyzed the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between serum samples from ASFV-infected and uninfected pigs using quantitative proteomics. Setting the p-value < 0.05 and |log2 (fold change)| > 1.5, we identified 173 DEPs, comprising 57 upregulated and 116 downregulated proteins, which belonged to various biological processes and pathways based on the Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses. The enriched pathways include immune responses, metabolism, and inflammation signaling pathways. Western blot analysis validated the DEPs identified using quantitative proteomics. Furthermore, our proteomics data showed that C1QTNF3 regulated the inflammatory signaling pathway. C1QTNF3 knockdown led to the upregulation of pro-inflammatory factors IL-1beta, IL-8, and IL-6, thus inhibiting ASFV replication. These results indicated that C1QTNF3 was critical for ASFV infection. In conclusion, this study revealed the molecular mechanisms underlying the host-ASFV interaction, which may contribute to the development of novel antiviral strategies against ASFV infection in the future.
PXD034628	36312921	Quick and wide-range taxonomical repertoire establishment of the cystic fibrosis lung microbiota by tandem mass spectrometry on sputum samples. 	Metaproteomic profiling of induced and spontaneous sputum samples from cystic fibrosis patients	bioinformatics, biomass, functional analysis, metaproteomics, microbiota	Microorganisms proteotyping by tandem mass spectrometry has been recently shown as a powerful methodology to identify the wide-range taxonomy and biomass of microbiota. Sputum is the recommended specimen for routine microbiological monitoring of Cystic Fibrosis (CF) patients but has been rarely submitted to tandem mass spectrometry-based proteotyping. In this study, we compared the microbial components of spontaneous and induced sputum samples from three cystic fibrosis patients. Although the presence of microbial proteins is much lower than host proteins, we report that the microbiota's components present in the samples can be identified, as well as host biomarkers and functional insights into the microbiota. No significant difference was found in microorganism abundance between paired spontaneous and induced sputum samples. Microbial proteins linked to resistance, iron uptake, and biofilm-forming ability were observed in sputa independently of the sampling method. This unbiased and enlarged view of the CF microbiome could be highly complementary to culture and relevant for the clinical management of CF patients by improving knowledge about the host-pathogen dynamics and CF pathophysiology.
PXD037081	36312923	Mirror proteases of Ac-Trypsin and Ac-LysargiNase precisely improve novel event identifications in Mycolicibacterium smegmatis MC(2) 155 by proteogenomic analysis. 	Accurate identification of proteogenomic characterization in Mycolicibacterium smegmatis MC2155 by 14N and 15N double-labeling mass spectra	Mycolicibacterium smegmatis MC2155	Accurate identification of novel peptides remains challenging because of the lack of evaluation criteria in large-scale proteogenomic studies. Mirror proteases of trypsin and lysargiNase can generate complementary b/y ion series, providing the opportunity to efficiently assess authentic novel peptides in experiments other than filter potential targets by different false discovery rates (FDRs) ranking. In this study, a pair of in-house developed acetylated mirror proteases, Ac-Trypsin and Ac-LysargiNase, were used in Mycolicibacterium smegmatis MC(2) 155 for proteogenomic analysis. The mirror proteases accurately identified 368 novel peptides, exhibiting 75-80% b and y ion coverages against 65-68% y or b ion coverages of Ac-Trypsin (38.9% b and 68.3% y) or Ac-LysargiNase (65.5% b and 39.6% y) as annotated peptides from M. smegmatis MC(2) 155. The complementary b and y ion series largely increased the reliability of overlapped sequences derived from novel peptides. Among these novel peptides, 311 peptides were annotated in other public M. smegmatis strains, and 57 novel peptides with more continuous b and y pairs were obtained for further analysis after spectral quality assessment. This enabled mirror proteases to successfully correct six annotated proteins' N-termini and detect 17 new coding open reading frames (ORFs). We believe that mirror proteases will be an effective strategy for novel peptide detection in both prokaryotic and eukaryotic proteogenomics.
PXD033811	36313159	Direct Identification of Proteolytic Cleavages on Living Cells Using a Glycan-Tethered Peptide Ligase. 	GT-stabiligase N-terminomics technology for capturing proteolytic modifications on human cell surfaces	N-terminomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, proteolysis, subtiligase protein engineering	Proteolytic cleavage of cell surface proteins triggers critical processes including cell-cell interactions, receptor activation, and shedding of signaling proteins. Consequently, dysregulated extracellular proteases contribute to malignant cell phenotypes including most cancers. To understand these effects, methods are needed that identify proteolyzed membrane proteins within diverse cellular contexts. Herein we report a proteomic approach, called cell surface N-terminomics, to broadly identify precise cleavage sites (neo-N-termini) on the surface of living cells. First, we functionalized the engineered peptide ligase, called stabiligase, with an N-terminal nucleophile that enables covalent attachment to naturally occurring glycans. Upon the addition of a biotinylated peptide ester, glycan-tethered stabiligase efficiently tags extracellular neo-N-termini for proteomic analysis. To demonstrate the versatility of this approach, we identified and characterized 1532 extracellular neo-N-termini across a panel of different cell types including primary immune cells. The vast majority of cleavages were not identified by previous proteomic studies. Lastly, we demonstrated that single oncogenes, KRAS(G12V) and HER2, induce extracellular proteolytic remodeling of proteins involved in cancerous cell growth, invasion, and migration. Cell surface N-terminomics is a generalizable platform that can reveal proteolyzed, neoepitopes to target using immunotherapies.
PXD036696	36313729	Metabolic reprogramming enables the auxiliary diagnosis of breast cancer by automated breast volume scanner. 	reprogramming enables the auxiliary diagnosis of breast cancer by automated breast volume scanner	automated breast volume scanner, biomarker, breast cancer, metabolites, metabolomics	Breast cancer is the leading cause of female cancer-related deaths worldwide. New technologies with enhanced sensitivity and specificity for early diagnosis and monitoring of postoperative recurrence are in critical demand. Automatic breast full volume scanning system (ABVS) is an emerging technology used as an alternative imaging method for breast cancer screening. Despite its improved detection rate of malignant tumors, ABVS cannot accurately stage breast cancer preoperatively in 30-40% of cases. As a major hallmark of breast cancer, the characteristic metabolic reprogramming may provide potential biomarkers as an auxiliary method for ABVS. Objective: The objective of this study was to identify differential metabolomic signatures between benign and malignant breast tumors and among different subtypes of breast cancer patients based on untargeted metabolomics and improve breast cancer detection rate by combining key metabolites and ABVS. Methods: Untargeted metabolomics approach was used to profile serum samples from 70 patients with different subtypes of breast cancer and benign breast tumor to determine specific metabolomic profiles through univariate and multivariate statistical data analysis. Results: Metabolic profiles correctly distinguished benign and malignant breast tumors patients, and a total of 791 metabolites were identified. There were 54 different metabolites between benign and malignant breast tumors and 17 different metabolites between invasive and non-invasive breast cancer. Notably, the missed diagnosis rate of ABVS could be reduced by differential metabolite analysis. Moreover, the diagnostic performance analyses of combined metabolites (pelargonic acid, N-acetylasparagine, and cysteine-S-sulfate) with ABVS performance gave a ROC area under the curve of 0.967 (95% CI: 0.926, 0.993). Conclusions: Our study identified metabolic features both in benign and malignant breast tumors and in invasive and non-invasive breast cancer. Combined ultrasound ABVS and a panel of differential serum metabolites could further improve the accuracy of preoperative diagnosis of breast cancer and guide surgical therapy.
PXD031140	36314723	Intramembrane client recognition potentiates the chaperone functions of calnexin. 	Intramembrane client recognition potentiates the chaperone functions of calnexin	Calnexin, membrane proteins, molecular chaperones, protein quality control	One-third of the human proteome is comprised of membrane proteins, which are particularly vulnerable to misfolding and often require folding assistance by molecular chaperones. Calnexin (CNX), which engages client proteins via its sugar-binding lectin domain, is one of the most abundant ER chaperones, and plays an important role in membrane protein biogenesis. Based on mass spectrometric analyses, we here show that calnexin interacts with a large number of nonglycosylated membrane proteins, indicative of additional nonlectin binding modes. We find that calnexin preferentially bind misfolded membrane proteins and that it uses its single transmembrane domain (TMD) for client recognition. Combining experimental and computational approaches, we systematically dissect signatures for intramembrane client recognition by calnexin, and identify sequence motifs within the calnexin TMD region that mediate client binding. Building on this, we show that intramembrane client binding potentiates the chaperone functions of calnexin. Together, these data reveal a widespread role of calnexin client recognition in the lipid bilayer, which synergizes with its established lectin-based substrate binding. Molecular chaperones thus can combine different interaction modes to support the biogenesis of the diverse eukaryotic membrane proteome.
PXD033657	36314906	Proteomic Analysis of a Hypervirulent Mutant of the Insect-Pathogenic Fungus Metarhizium anisopliae Reveals Changes in Pathogenicity and Terpenoid Pathways. 	Proteome of Metarhizium anisopliae MaUV-HV differentially abundant protein	Metarhizium anisopliae MaUV-HV, differentially abundant protein	Metarhizium anisopliae is a commercialized entomopathogenic fungus widely used for the control of insect pests. Significant efforts have been expended to screen and/or select for isolates that display increased virulence toward target insect hosts. UV-induced mutagenesis has resulted in the isolation of a number of hypervirulent M. anisopliae mutants; however, the underlying mechanisms that have led to the desired phenotype have yet to be characterized. Here, we performed a comparative proteomic analysis of an M. anisopliae UV-induced hypervirulent mutant (MaUV-HV) and its wild-type parent using tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics. A total of 842 differentially abundant proteins were identified, with 360 being more abundant in the hypervirulent mutant and 482 in the wild-type parent. In terms of differential abundance, the critical pathways affected included those involved in secondary metabolite production, virulence, and stress response. In addition, a number of genes involved in terpenoid biosynthesis pathways were identified as significantly mutated in the MaUV-HV strain. In particular, mutations in the farnesyl pyrophosphate synthase (FPPS1) and geranylgeranyl diphosphate synthase (GGPPS5) genes were seen. The effects of the FPPS1 mutation were confirmed via the construction and characterization of a targeted gene knockout strain (DeltaMaFPPS1). The overall effects of the mutations were increased resistance to UV stress, faster growth, and increased virulence. These results provide mechanistic insights and new avenues for modulating fungal virulence in efforts to increase the biological control potential of insect-pathogenic fungi. IMPORTANCE The mechanisms that underlie and contribute to microbial (fungal) virulence are known to be varied; however, the identification of contributing pathways beyond known virulence factors remains difficult. Using TMT-based proteomic analyses, changes in the proteomes of an M. anisopliae hypervirulent mutant and its wild-type parent were determined. These data revealed alterations in pathogenicity, stress, and growth/developmental pathways, as well as pathways not previously known to affect virulence. These include terpenoid pathways that can be manipulated to increase the efficacy of fungal insect biological control agents for increased sustainable pest control.
PXD033325	36315652	Phosphoproteomic Analysis Defines BABAM1 as mTORC2 Downstream Effector Promoting DNA Damage Response in Glioblastoma Cells. 	Phosphoproteomic Analysis Defines BABAM1 as mTORC2 Downstream Effector Promoting DNA Damage Response in Glioblastoma Cells	BABAM1, DNA damage, Glioblastoma, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, mTORC2, phosphoproteomics	Glioblastoma (GBM) is a devastating primary brain cancer with a poor prognosis. GBM is associated with an abnormal mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling pathway, consisting of two distinct kinase complexes: mTORC1 and mTORC2. The complexes play critical roles in cell proliferation, survival, migration, metabolism, and DNA damage response. This study investigated the aberrant mTORC2 signaling pathway in GBM cells by performing quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of U87MG cells under different drug treatment conditions. Interestingly, a functional analysis of phosphoproteome revealed that mTORC2 inhibition might be involved in double-strand break (DSB) repair. We further characterized the relationship between mTORC2 and BRISC and BRCA1-A complex member 1 (BABAM1). We demonstrated that pBABAM1 at Ser29 is regulated by mTORC2 to initiate DNA damage response, contributing to DNA repair and cancer cell survival. Accordingly, the inactivation of mTORC2 significantly ablated pBABAM1 (Ser29), reduced DNA repair activities in the nucleus, and promoted apoptosis of the cancer cells. Furthermore, we also recognized that histone H2AX phosphorylation at Ser139 (gammaH2AX) could be controlled by mTORC2 to repair the DNA. These results provided a better understanding of the mTORC2 function in oncogenic DNA damage response and might lead to specific mTORC2 treatments for brain cancer patients in the future.
PXD037387	36316088	The kinesin motor KIF1C is a putative transporter of the exon junction complex in neuronal cells. 	The protein complex of kinesin motor KIF1C and its hereditary spastic paraplegia associated mutant G102A	KIF1C, hereditary spastic paraplegia, neuronal cells	Neurons critically depend on regulated RNA localization and tight control of spatio-temporal gene expression to maintain their morphological and functional integrity. Mutations in the kinesin motor protein gene KIF1C cause Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia, an autosomal recessive disease leading to predominant degeneration of the long axons of central motoneurons. In this study we aimed to gain insight into the molecular function of KIF1C and understand how KIF1C dysfunction contributes to motoneuron degeneration. We used affinity proteomics in neuronally differentiated neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y) to identify the protein complex associated with KIF1C in neuronal cells; candidate interactions were then validated by immunoprecipitation and mislocalization of putative KIF1C cargoes was studied by immunostainings. We found KIF1C to interact with all core components of the exon junction complex (EJC); expression of mutant KIF1C in neuronal cells leads to loss of the typical localization distally in neurites. Instead, EJC core components accumulate in the pericentrosomal region, here co-localizing with mutant KIF1C. These findings suggest KIF1C as a neuronal transporter of the EJC. Interestingly, the binding of KIF1C to the EJC is RNA-mediated, as treatment with RNAse prior to immunoprecipitation almost completely abolishes the interaction. Silica-based solid-phase extraction of UV-crosslinked RNA-protein complexes furthermore supports direct interaction of KIF1C with RNA, as recently also demonstrated for kinesin heavy chain. Taken together, our findings are consistent with a model where KIF1C transports mRNA in an EJC-bound and therefore transcriptionally silenced state along neurites, thus providing the missing link between the EJC and mRNA localization in neurons.
PXD033284	36316334	Circular RNA circBNC2 inhibits epithelial cell G2-M arrest to prevent fibrotic maladaptive repair. 	Circular RNA circBNC2 regulates epithelial cell G2-M arrest to prevent fibrotic maladaptive repair	AKI, cell cycle, circRNA, renal fibrosis	The mechanisms underlying fibrogenic responses after injury are not well understood. Epithelial cell cycle arrest in G2/M after injury is a key checkpoint for determining wound-healing leading to either normal cell proliferation or fibrosis. Here, we identify a kidney- and liver-enriched circular RNA, circBNC2, which is abundantly expressed in normal renal tubular cells and hepatocytes but significantly downregulated after acute ischemic or toxic insult. Loss of circBNC2 is at least partially mediated by upregulation of DHX9. Gain- and loss-of-function studies, both in vitro and in vivo, demonstrate that circBNC2 acts as a negative regulator of cell G2/M arrest by encoding a protein that promotes formation of CDK1/cyclin B1 complexes. Restoring circBNC2 in experimentally-induced male mouse models of fibrotic kidney and liver, decreases G2/M arrested cell numbers with secretion of fibrotic factors, thereby mitigating extracellular matrix deposition and fibrosis. Decreased expression of circBNC2 and increased G2/M arrest of epithelial cells are recapitulated in human ischemic reperfusion injury (IRI)-induced chronic kidney disease and inflammation-induced liver fibrosis, highlighting the clinical relevance. These findings suggest that restoring circBNC2 might represent a potential strategy for therapeutic intervention in epithelial organ fibrosis.
PXD031188	36317652	Deep Phosphoproteome Landscape of Interhemispheric Functionality of Neuroanatomical Regions of the Human Brain. 	Phosphoproteome profile of Human Brain Hemisphere	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Brain Hemisphere, Brainprot, Human Proteome Project, Neuroproteomics, Phosphoproteomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP)	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) are one of the compulsive and predominant biological processes that regulate the diverse molecular mechanism, modulate the onset of disease, and are the reason behind the functional diversity of proteins. Despite the widespread research findings in neuroproteomics, one of the key drawbacks has been the lack of proteome-level knowledge of hemispheric lateralization. We have investigated the proteome level expression in different neuroanatomical regions under the Human Brain Proteome Project (HBPP) and developed the global interhemispheric brain proteome map (Brainprot) earlier. Furthermore, this study has extended to decipher the phosphoproteome map of human brain interhemispheric regions through high-resolution mass spectrometry. The phosphoproteomics examination of 12 unique interhemispheric neurological brain regions using Orbitrap fusion liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry provided comprehensive coverage of 996 phosphoproteins, 2010 phosphopeptides, and 3567 phosphosites. Moreover, interhemispheric phosphoproteome profiling has been categorized according to synaptic ontologies and interhemispheric expression to understand the functionality. Finally, we have integrated the phosphosites data under the PhosphoMap section in the Inter-Hemispheric Brain Proteome Map Portal (https://www.brainprot.org/) for the advancement and support of the ongoing neuroproteomics research worldwide. Data is available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD031188.
PXD035315	36319625	In situ generation of micrometer-sized tumor cell-derived vesicles as autologous cancer vaccines for boosting systemic immune responses. 	Proteomic analysis for In situ generation of micrometer-sized tumor cell-derived vesicles as autologous cancer vaccines for boosting systemic immune responses	cancer immunotherapy, sonication, tumor cell, tumor cell-derived vesicle, vaccine	Cancer vaccine, which can promote tumor-specific immunostimulation, is one of the most important immunotherapeutic strategies and holds tremendous potential for cancer treatment/prevention. Here, we prepare a series of nanoparticles composed of doxorubicin- and tyrosine kinase inhibitor-loaded and hyaluronic acid-coated dendritic polymers (termed HDDT nanoparticles) and find that the HDDT nanoparticles can convert various cancer cells to micrometer-sized vesicles (1.6-3.2 mum; termed HMVs) with ~100% cell-to-HMV conversion efficiency. We confirm in two tumor-bearing mouse models that the nanoparticles can restrain tumor growth, induce robust immunogenic cell death, and convert the primary tumor into an antigen depot by producing HMVs in situ to serve as personalized vaccines for cancer immunotherapy. Furthermore, the HDDT-healed mice show a strong immune memory effect and the HDDT treatment can realize long-term protection against tumor rechallenge. Collectively, the present work provides a general strategy for the preparation of tumor-associated antigen-containing vesicles and the development of personalized cancer vaccines.
PXD052577	36319971	Comparative transcriptome analysis of resistant and susceptible Kentucky bluegrass varieties in response to powdery mildew infection. 	Comparative proteomic and metabolomic analysis of resistant and susceptible Kentucky Bluegrass cultivars in response to infection by powdery mildew	Disease resistance, Kentucky Bluegrass, Metabolomic, Powdery mildew	BACKGROUND: Poa pratensis is one of the most common cold-season turfgrasses used for urban turf building, and it is also widely used in ecological environment management worldwide. Powdery mildew is a common disease of P. pratensis. To scientifically and ecologically control lawn powdery mildew, the molecular mechanism underlying the response of P. pratensis to powdery mildew infection must better understood. RESULTS: To explore molecular mechanism underlying the response of P. pratensis to powdery mildew infection, this study compared physiological changes and transcriptomic level differences between the highly resistant variety 'BlackJack' and the extremely susceptible variety 'EverGlade' under powdery mildew infection conditions. We analyzed DEGs using reference canonical pathways in the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) database, and the results showed that "starch and sucrose metabolism", "photosynthesis" and "fatty acid metabolism"pathways were only enriched in 'BlackJack', and the expression of DEGs such as HXK, INV, GS, SS, AGpase and beta-amylase in "starch and sucrose metabolism" pathway of 'BlackJack' were closely related to powdery mildew resistance. Meanwhile, compared with 'EverGlade', powdery mildew infection promoted synthesis of sucrose, expression of photosynthesis parameters and photosynthesis-related enzymes in leaves of 'BlackJack' and decreased accumulation of monosaccharides such as glucose and fructose. CONCLUSIONS: This study identified the key metabolic pathways of a P. pratensis variety with high resistance to powdery mildew infection and explored the differences in physiological characteristics and key genes related to sugar metabolism pathways under powdery mildew stress. These findings provide important insights for studying underlying molecular response mechanism.
PXD037103	36320088	Isolation and characterization of extracellular vesicles from biotechnologically important fungus Aureobasidium pullulans. 	Extracellular vesicles from Aureobasidium pullulans	Aureobasidium pullulans, extracellular vesicles, fungi	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are increasingly recognized as an important mechanism for cell-cell interactions. Their role in fungi is still poorly understood and they have been isolated from only a handful of species. Here, we isolated and characterized EVs from Aureobasidium pullulans, a biotechnologically important black yeast-like fungus that is increasingly used for biocontrol of phytopathogenic fungi and bacteria. After optimization of the isolation protocol, characterization of EVs from A. pullulans by transmission electron microscopy (TEM) revealed a typical cup-shaped morphology and different subpopulations of EVs. These results were confirmed by nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), which revealed that A. pullulans produced 6.1 x 10(8) nanoparticles per milliliter of culture medium. Proteomic analysis of EVs detected 642 proteins. A small fraction of them had signal peptides for secretion and transmembrane domains. Proteins characteristic of different synthesis pathways were found, suggesting that EVs are synthesized by multiple pathways in A. pullulans. Enrichment analysis using Gene Ontology showed that most of the proteins found in the EVs were associated with primary metabolism. When sequencing the small RNA fraction of A. pullulans EVs, we found two hypothetical novel mil-RNAs. Finally, we tested the biocontrol potential of EVs from A. pullulans. The EVs did not inhibit the germination of spores of three important phytopathogenic fungi-Botrytis cinerea, Colletotrichum acutatum, and Penicillium expansum. However, exposure of grown cultures of C. acutatum and P. expansum to A. pullulans EVs resulted in visible changes in morphology of colonies. These preliminary results suggest that EVs may be part of the antagonistic activity of A. pullulans, which is so far only partially understood. Thus, the first isolation and characterization of EVs from A. pullulans provides a starting point for further studies of EVs in the biotechnologically important traits of the biocontrol black fungus A. pullulans in particular and in the biological role of fungal EVs in general.
PXD026727	36320634	In-Depth Metaproteomics Analysis of Oral Microbiome for Lung Cancer. 	Free-Flow Isoelectric Focusing Based Metaproteomics Workflow Facilitates the Identification and Characterization of Human Salivary Microbiome for Lung Cancer	Dysbiosis, Free-flow isoelectric focusing, Lung cancer, Metaproteomics, Salivary microbiome, Taxonomy-function integration	The human oral microbiome correlates with numerous diseases, including lung cancer. Identifying the functional changes by metaproteomics helps understand the disease-related dysbiosis, yet characterizing low-abundant bacteria is challenging. Here, we developed a free-flow isoelectric focusing electrophoresis-mass spectrometry- (FFIEF-MS-) based metaproteomics strategy to reduce host interferences and enrich low-abundant bacteria for in-depth interpretation of the oral microbiome. With our method, the number of interfering peptides decreased by 52.87%, whereas the bacterial peptides and species increased by 94.97% and 44.90%, respectively, compared to the conventional metaproteomics approach. We identified 3647 bacterial proteins, which is the most comprehensive oral metaproteomics study to date. Lung cancer-associated bacteria were validated among an independent cohort. The imbalanced Fusobacterium nucleatum and Prevotella histicola and their dysregulated functions in inhibiting immune response and maintaining cell redox homeostasis were revealed. The FFIEF-MS may serve as a valuable strategy to study the mechanisms between human diseases and microbiomes with broader applications.
PXD036630	36320915	A photo-oxidation driven proximity labeling strategy enables profiling of mitochondrial proteome dynamics in living cells. 	A photo-oxidation driven proximity labeling strategy enables profiling of mitochondrial proteome dynamics in living cells	Photo-oxidation, mitochondrial proteome, proximity labeling	Mapping the proteomic landscape of mitochondria with spatiotemporal precision plays a pivotal role in elucidating the delicate biological functions and complex relationship with other organelles in a variety of dynamic physiological processes which necessitates efficient and controllable chemical tools. We herein report a photo-oxidation driven proximity labeling strategy to profile the mitochondrial proteome by light dependence in living cells with high spatiotemporal resolution. Taking advantage of organelle-localizable organic photoactivated probes generating reactive species and nucleophilic substrates for proximal protein oxidation and trapping, mitochondrial proteins were selectively labeled by spatially limited reactions in their native environment. Integration of photo-oxidation driven proximity labeling and quantitative proteomics facilitated the plotting of the mitochondrial proteome in which up to 310 mitochondrial proteins were identified with a specificity of 64% in HeLa cells. Furthermore, mitochondrial proteome dynamics was deciphered in drug resistant Huh7 and LPS stimulated HMC3 cells which were hard-to-transfect. A number of differential proteins were quantified which were intimately linked to critical processes and provided insights into the related molecular mechanisms of drug resistance and neuroinflammation in the perspective of mitochondria. The photo-oxidation driven proximity labeling strategy offers solid technical support to a highly precise proteomic platform in time and finer space for more knowledge of subcellular biology.
PXD035365	36321555	Disrupting metformin adaptation of liver cancer cells by targeting the TOMM34/ATP5B axis. 	Disrupting metformin adaptation of hepatocellular carcinoma by targeting TOMM34/ATP5B axis	Hepatocellular carcinoma, Metabolic adaptation, Metastasis, Metformin, OXPHOS	Metformin, a well-known antidiabetic drug, has been repurposed for cancer treatment; however, recently observed drug resistance and tumor metastasis have questioned its further application. Here, we found that long-term metformin exposure led to metabolic adaptation of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells, which was characterized by an obvious epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) phenotype and compensatory elevation of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS). TOMM34, a translocase of the outer mitochondrial membrane, was upregulated to promote tumor metastasis in response to metformin-induced metabolic stress. Mechanistically, TOMM34 interacted with ATP5B to preserve F1 FO -ATPase activity, which conferred mitochondrial OXPHOS and ATP production. This metabolic preference for OXPHOS suggested a large requirement of energy supply by cancer cells to survive and spread in response to therapeutic stress. Notably, disturbing the interaction between TOMM34 and ATP5B using Gboxin, a specific OXPHOS inhibitor, increased sensitivity to metformin and suppressed tumor progression both in vitro and in vivo. Overall, this study demonstrates a molecular link of the TOMM34/ATP5B-ATP synthesis axis during metformin adaptation and provides promising therapeutic targets for metformin sensitization in cancer treatment.
PXD036197	36321563	IQCN disruption causes fertilization failure and male infertility due to manchette assembly defect. 	IQCN disruption causes fertilization failure and male infertility due to manchette assembly defect	IQCN, fertilization failure, manchette	Total fertilization failure (TFF) is an important cause of infertility; however, the genetic basis of TFF caused by male factors remains to be clarified. In this study, whole-exome sequencing was firstly used to screen for genetic causes of TFF after intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), and homozygous variants in the novel gene IQ motif-containing N (IQCN) were identified in two affected individuals with abnormal acrosome structures. Then, Iqcn-knockout mice were generated by CRISPR-Cas9 technology and showed that the knockout male mice resembled the human phenotypes. Additionally, we found that IQCN regulates microtubule nucleation during manchette assembly via calmodulin and related calmodulin-binding proteins, which resulted in head deformity with aberrant oocyte activation factor PLCzeta. Fortunately, ICSI with assisted oocyte activation can overcome IQCN-associate TFF and male infertility. Thus, our study firstly identified the function of IQCN, highlights the relationship between the manchette assembly and fertilization, and provides a genetic marker and a therapeutic option for male-source TFF.
PXD035765	36322655	Biallelic germline mutations in MAD1L1 induce a syndrome of aneuploidy with high tumor susceptibility. 	Bilallelic germline mutations in MAD1L1 induce a novel syndrome of aneuploidy with high tumor susceptibility	MAD1L1, MVA	Germline mutations leading to aneuploidy are rare, and their tumor-promoting properties are mostly unknown at the molecular level. We report here novel germline biallelic mutations in MAD1L1, encoding the spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) protein MAD1, in a 36-year-old female with a dozen of neoplasias. Functional studies demonstrated lack of full-length protein and deficient SAC response, resulting in ~30 to 40% of aneuploid blood cells. Single-cell RNA analysis identified mitochondrial stress accompanied by systemic inflammation with enhanced interferon and NFkappaB signaling both in aneuploid and euploid cells, suggesting a non-cell autonomous response. MAD1L1 mutations resulted in specific clonal expansions of gammadelta T cells with chromosome 18 gains and enhanced cytotoxic profile as well as intermediate B cells with chromosome 12 gains and transcriptomic signatures characteristic of leukemia cells. These data point to MAD1L1 mutations as the cause of a new variant of mosaic variegated aneuploidy with systemic inflammation and unprecedented tumor susceptibility.
PXD028114	36322753	IGF2BP2 promotes cancer progression by degrading the RNA transcript encoding a v-ATPase subunit. 	RNA-binding proteins associating with the 3'UTR of the ATP6V1A transcript in SIRT1 knock-down cells	ATP6V1A, RNA-binding proteins, SIRT1, breast cancer	IGF2BP2 binds to a number of RNA transcripts and has been suggested to function as a tumor promoter, although little is known regarding the mechanisms that regulate its roles in RNA metabolism. Here we demonstrate that IGF2BP2 binds to the 3' untranslated region of the transcript encoding ATP6V1A, a catalytic subunit of the vacuolar ATPase (v-ATPase), and serves as a substrate for the NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase SIRT1, which regulates how IGF2BP2 affects the stability of the ATP6V1A transcript. When sufficient levels of SIRT1 are expressed, it catalyzes the deacetylation of IGF2BP2, which can bind to the ATP6V1A transcript but does not mediate its degradation. However, when SIRT1 expression is low, the acetylated form of IGF2BP2 accumulates, and upon binding to the ATP6V1A transcript recruits the XRN2 nuclease, which catalyzes transcript degradation. Thus, the stability of the ATP6V1A transcript is significantly compromised in breast cancer cells when SIRT1 expression is low or knocked-down. This leads to a reduction in the expression of functional v-ATPase complexes in cancer cells and to an impairment in their lysosomal activity, resulting in the production of a cellular secretome consisting of increased numbers of exosomes enriched in ubiquitinated protein cargo and soluble hydrolases, including cathepsins, that together combine to promote tumor cell survival and invasiveness. These findings describe a previously unrecognized role for IGF2BP2 in mediating the degradation of a messenger RNA transcript essential for lysosomal function and highlight how its sirtuin-regulated acetylation state can have significant biological and disease consequences.
PXD035784	36322939	C1Q labels a highly aggressive macrophage-like leukemia population indicating extramedullary infiltration and relapse. 	C1Q labels a highly aggressive macrophage-like leukemia population indicating extramedullary infiltration and relapse	AML, C1Q, CD34+, DIA	Extramedullary infiltration (EMI) is a concomitant manifestation that may indicate poor outcome of acute myeloid leukemia (AML). The underlying mechanism remains poorly understood and therapeutic options are limited. Here, we employed single-cell RNA sequencing on bone marrow (BM) and EMI samples from a patient with AML presenting pervasive leukemia cutis. A complement C1Q+ macrophage-like leukemia subset, which was enriched within cutis and existed in BM before EMI manifestations, was identified and further verified in multiple patients with AML. Genomic and transcriptional profiling disclosed mutation and gene expression signatures of patients with EMI that expressed high levels of C1Q. RNA sequencing and quantitative proteomic analysis revealed expression dynamics of C1Q from primary to relapse. Univariate and multivariate analysis demonstrated adverse prognosis significance of C1Q expression. Mechanistically, C1Q expression, which was modulated by transcription factor MAF BZIP transcription factor B, endowed leukemia cells with tissue infiltration ability, which could establish prominent cutaneous or gastrointestinal EMI nodules in patient-derived xenograft and cell line-derived xenograft models. Fibroblasts attracted migration of the C1Q+ leukemia cells through C1Q-globular C1Q receptor recognition and subsequent stimulation of transforming growth factor beta1. This cell-to-cell communication also contributed to survival of C1Q+ leukemia cells under chemotherapy stress. Thus, C1Q served as a marker for AML with adverse prognosis, orchestrating cancer infiltration pathways through communicating with fibroblasts and represents a compelling therapeutic target for EMI.
PXD031185	36323324	Addressing the Enzyme-independent tumor-promoting function of NAMPT via PROTAC-mediated degradation. 	Addressing Enzymatic-Independent Tumor-Promoting Function of NAMPT via two PROTAC-Mediated Degradation	NAD+, PROTAC, eNAMPT, enzymatic-independent, iNAMPT	Aberrant overexpression of nicotinamide phosphoribosyltransferase (NAMPT) has been reported in a variety of tumor cells and is a poor prognosis factor for patient survival. It plays an important role in tumor cell proliferation, acting concurrently as an nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) synthase and, unexpectedly, as an extracellular signaling molecule for several tumor-promoting pathways. Although previous efforts to modulate NAMPT activity were limited to enzymatic inhibitors with low success in clinical studies, protein degradation offers the possibility to simultaneously disrupt NAMPT's enzyme activity and ligand capabilities. Here we report the development of two highly selective proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs) that promote NAMPT degradation in a cereblon-dependent manner. Both PROTAC degraders outperform a clinical candidate, FK866, in killing effect on hematological tumor cells. These results emphasize the importance and feasibility of applying PROTACs as a superior strategy for targeting proteins with multiple tumor-promoting functions like NAMPT, which is not easily achieved by conventional enzymatic inhibitors.
PXD037262	36323699	Phosphorylation of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 13 at serine 33 attenuates nonalcoholic fatty liver disease in mice. 	Targeting phosphorylation of 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase 13 at serine 33 to treat nonalcoholic steatohepatitis	17beta-HSD13 protein Gel band, 293T cell	17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase-13 is a hepatocyte-specific, lipid droplet-associated protein. A common loss-of-function variant of HSD17B13 (rs72613567: TA) protects patients against non-alcoholic fatty liver disease with underlying mechanism incompletely understood. In the present study, we identify the serine 33 of 17beta-HSD13 as an evolutionally conserved PKA target site and its phosphorylation facilitates lipolysis by promoting its interaction with ATGL on lipid droplets. Targeted mutation of Ser33 to Ala (S33A) decreases ATGL-dependent lipolysis in cultured hepatocytes by reducing CGI-58-mediated ATGL activation. Importantly, a transgenic knock-in mouse strain carrying the HSD17B13 S33A mutation (HSD17B13(33A/A)) spontaneously develops hepatic steatosis with reduced lipolysis and increased inflammation. Moreover, Hsd17B13(33A/A) mice are more susceptible to high-fat diet-induced nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. Finally, we find reproterol, a potential 17beta-HSD13 modulator and FDA-approved drug, confers a protection against nonalcoholic steatohepatitis via PKA-mediated Ser33 phosphorylation of 17beta-HSD13. Therefore, targeting the Ser33 phosphorylation site could represent a potential approach to treat NASH.
PXD037418	36324521	The antimicrobial peptide Magainin-2 interacts with BamA impairing folding of E. coli membrane proteins. 	The antimicrobial peptide Magainin-2 interacts with BamA impairing folding of E. coli membrane proteins	Antimicrobial peptides, mechanism of action, membrane proteins, structural and functional characterization	Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are a unique and diverse group of molecules endowed with a broad spectrum of antibiotics properties that are being considered as new alternative therapeutic agents. Most of these peptides are membrane-active molecules, killing bacteria by membrane disruption. However, recently an increasing number of AMPs was shown to enter bacterial cells and target intracellular processes fundamental for bacterial life. In this paper we investigated the mechanism of action of Maganin-2 (Mag-2), a well-known antimicrobial peptide isolated from the African clawed frog Xenopus laevis, by functional proteomic approaches. Several proteins belonging to E. coli macromolecular membrane complexes were identified as Mag-2 putative interactors. Among these, we focused our attention on BamA a membrane protein belonging to the BAM complex responsible for the folding and insertion of nascent beta-barrel Outer Membrane Proteins (OMPs) in the outer membrane. In silico predictions by molecular modelling, in vitro fluorescence binding and Light Scattering experiments carried out using a recombinant form of BamA confirmed the formation of a stable Mag-2/BamA complex and indicated a high affinity of the peptide for BamA. Functional implications of this interactions were investigated by two alternative and complementary approaches. The amount of outer membrane proteins OmpA and OmpF produced in E. coli following Mag-2 incubation were evaluated by both western blot analysis and quantitative tandem mass spectrometry in Multiple Reaction Monitoring scan mode. In both experiments a gradual decrease in outer membrane proteins production with time was observed as a consequence of Mag-2 treatment. These results suggested BamA as a possible good target for the rational design of new antibiotics since this protein is responsible for a crucial biological event of bacterial life and is absent in humans.
PXD032798	36325020	A pilot study to show that asymptomatic sexually transmitted infections alter the foreskin epithelial proteome. 	Human foreskin proteome with aSTI	Foreskin, HIV, MGT	There is limited data on the role of asymptomatic STIs (aSTIs) on the risk of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) acquisition in the male genital tract (MGT). The impact of foreskin removal on lowering HIV acquisition is well described, but molecular events leading to HIV acquisition are unclear. Here, in this pilot study, we show that asymptomatic urethral infection with Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) significantly impacts the foreskin proteome composition. We developed and optimized a shotgun liquid chromatography coupled tandem mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics approach and utilized this on foreskins collected at medical male circumcision (MMC) from 16 aSTI(+) men and 10 age-matched STI- controls. We used a novel bioinformatic metaproteomic pipeline to detect differentially expressed (DE) proteins. Gene enrichment ontology analysis revealed proteins associated with inflammatory and immune activation function in both inner and outer foreskin from men with an aSTI. Neutrophil activation/degranulation and viral-evasion proteins were significantly enriched in foreskins from men with aSTI, whereas homotypic cell-cell adhesion proteins were enriched in foreskin tissue from men without an aSTI. Collectively, our data show that asymptomatic urethral sexually transmitted infections result in profound alterations in epithelial tissue that are associated with depletion of barrier integrity and immune activation.
PXD024964	36325276	Depletion of ALMS1 affects TGF-beta signalling pathway and downstream processes such as cell migration and adhesion capacity. 	CRISPR-Cas9-mediated ALMS1 knockout inhibits TGF-beta signalling and epithelial-mesenchyme transition.	ALMS1, AlstrÃ¶m syndrome, HeLa, LC-ESI-MS/MS, TGF-beta, epithelial-mesenchyme transition, fibrosis	Background: ALMS1 is a ubiquitous gene associated with Alstroem syndrome (ALMS). The main symptoms of ALMS affect multiple organs and tissues, generating at last, multi-organic fibrosis in the lungs, kidneys and liver. TGF-beta is one of the main pathways implicated in fibrosis, controlling the cell cycle, apoptosis, cell migration, cell adhesion and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Nevertheless, the role of ALMS1 gene in fibrosis generation and other implicated processes such as cell migration or cell adhesion via the TGF- beta pathway has not been elucidated yet. Methods: Initially, we evaluated how depletion of ALMS1 affects different processes like apoptosis, cell cycle and mitochondrial activity in HeLa cells. Then, we performed proteomic profiling with TGF-beta stimuli in HeLa ALMS1 -/- cells and validated the results by examining different EMT biomarkers using qPCR. The expression of these EMT biomarkers were also studied in hTERT-BJ-5ta ALMS1 -/-. Finally, we evaluated the SMAD3 and SMAD2 phosphorylation and cell migration capacity in both models. Results: Depletion of ALMS1 generated apoptosis resistance to thapsigargin (THAP) and C2-Ceramide (C2-C), and G2/M cell cycle arrest in HeLa cells. For mitochondrial activity, results did not show significant differences between ALMS1 +/+ and ALMS1 -/-. Proteomic results showed inhibition of downstream pathways regulated by TGF-beta. The protein-coding genes (PCG) were associated with processes like focal adhesion or cell-substrate adherens junction in HeLa. SNAI1 showed an opposite pattern to what would be expected when activating the EMT in HeLa and BJ-5ta. Finally, in BJ-5ta model a reduced activation of SMAD3 but not SMAD2 were also observed. In HeLa model no alterations in the canonical TGF-beta pathway were observed but both cell lines showed a reduction in migration capacity. Conclusion: ALMS1 has a role in controlling the cell cycle and the apoptosis processes. Moreover, the depletion of ALMS1 affects the signal transduction through the TGF-beta and other processes like the cell migration and adhesion capacity.
PXD036626	36325553	The Arabidopsis ATP-Binding Cassette E protein ABCE2 is a conserved component of the translation machinery. 	TAP and nano LC-MS/MS of Arabidopsis thaliana ABCE2 protein	ABCE2, TAP, translation	ATP-Binding Cassette E (ABCE) proteins dissociate cytoplasmic ribosomes after translation terminates, and contribute to ribosome recycling, thus linking translation termination to initiation. This function has been demonstrated to be essential in animals, fungi, and archaea, but remains unexplored in plants. In most species, ABCE is encoded by a single-copy gene; by contrast, Arabidopsis thaliana has two ABCE paralogs, of which ABCE2 seems to conserve the ancestral function. We isolated apiculata7-1 (api7-1), the first viable, hypomorphic allele of ABCE2, which has a pleiotropic morphological phenotype reminiscent of mutations affecting ribosome biogenesis factors and ribosomal proteins. We also studied api7-2, a null, recessive lethal allele of ABCE2. Co-immunoprecipitation experiments showed that ABCE2 physically interacts with components of the translation machinery. An RNA-seq study of the api7-1 mutant showed increased responses to iron and sulfur starvation. We also found increased transcript levels of genes related to auxin signaling and metabolism. Our results support for the first time a conserved role for ABCE proteins in translation in plants, as previously shown for the animal, fungal, and archaeal lineages. In Arabidopsis, the ABCE2 protein seems important for general growth and vascular development, likely due to an indirect effect through auxin metabolism.
PXD029342	36325910	Targeting of Scavenger Receptors Stabilin-1 and Stabilin-2 Ameliorates Atherosclerosis by a Plasma Proteome Switch Mediating Monocyte/Macrophage Suppression. 	Plasma proteomics in Stabilin-1 and Stabilin-2 knock-out mice	ApoE, Plasma, Stabilin	BACKGROUND: Scavenger receptors Stabilin-1 (Stab1) and Stabilin-2 (Stab2) are preferentially expressed by liver sinusoidal endothelial cells. They mediate the clearance of circulating plasma molecules controlling distant organ homeostasis. Studies suggest that Stab1 and Stab2 may affect atherosclerosis. Although subsets of tissue macrophages also express Stab1, hematopoietic Stab1 deficiency does not modulate atherogenesis. Here, we comprehensively studied how targeting Stab1 and Stab2 affects atherosclerosis. METHODS: ApoE-KO mice were interbred with Stab1-KO and Stab2-KO mice and fed a Western diet. For antibody targeting, Ldlr-KO mice were also used. Unbiased plasma proteomics were performed and independently confirmed. Ligand binding studies comprised glutathione-S-transferase-pulldown and endocytosis assays. Plasma proteome effects on monocytes were studied by single-cell RNA sequencing in vivo, and by gene expression analyses of Stabilin ligand-stimulated and plasma-stimulated bone marrow-derived monocytes/macrophages in vitro. RESULTS: Spontaneous and Western diet-associated atherogenesis was significantly reduced in ApoE-Stab1-KO and ApoE-Stab2-KO mice. Similarly, inhibition of Stab1 or Stab2 by monoclonal antibodies significantly reduced Western diet-associated atherosclerosis in ApoE-KO and Ldlr-KO mice. Although neither plasma lipid levels nor circulating immune cell numbers were decisively altered, plasma proteomics revealed a switch in the plasma proteome, consisting of 231 dysregulated proteins comparing wildtype with Stab1/2-single and Stab1/2-double KO, and of 41 proteins comparing ApoE-, ApoE-Stab1-, and ApoE-Stab2-KO. Among this broad spectrum of common, but also disparate scavenger receptor ligand candidates, periostin, reelin, and TGFBi (transforming growth factor, beta-induced), known to modulate atherosclerosis, were independently confirmed as novel circulating ligands of Stab1/2. Single-cell RNA sequencing of circulating myeloid cells of ApoE-, ApoE-Stab1-, and ApoE-Stab2-KO mice showed transcriptomic alterations in patrolling (Ccr2(-)/Cx3cr1(++)/Ly6C(lo)) and inflammatory (Ccr2(+)/Cx3cr1(+)/Ly6C(hi)) monocytes, including downregulation of proatherogenic transcription factor Egr1. In wildtype bone marrow-derived monocytes/macrophages, ligand exposure alone did not alter Egr1 expression in vitro. However, exposure to plasma from ApoE-Stab1-KO and ApoE-Stab2-KO mice showed a reverted proatherogenic macrophage activation compared with ApoE-KO plasma, including downregulation of Egr1 in vitro. CONCLUSIONS: Inhibition of Stab1/Stab2 mediates an anti-inflammatory switch in the plasma proteome, including direct Stabilin ligands. The altered plasma proteome suppresses both patrolling and inflammatory monocytes and, thus, systemically protects against atherogenesis. Altogether, anti-Stab1- and anti-Stab2-targeted therapies provide a novel approach for the future treatment of atherosclerosis.
PXD025633	36328741	3D-MSCs A151 ODN-loaded exosomes are immunomodulatory and reveal a proteomic cargo that sustains wound resolution. 	The The Secretome of Human Neonatal Mesenchymal Stem Cells Modulates Doxorubicin-induced CytotoxicitySecretome of Human Neonatal Mesenchymal Stem Cells Modulates Doxorubicin-induced Cytotoxicity	3D cultures, breast cancer, mesenchymal stem/stromal cells, secretome	INTRODUCTION: Non-healing wounds remain a major burden due to the lack of effective treatments. Mesenchymal stem cell-derived exosomes (MSC-Exo) have emerged as therapeutic options given their pro-regenerative and immunomodulatory features. Still, little is known on the exact mechanisms mediated by MSC-Exo. Importantly, modulation of their efficacy through 3D-physiologic cultures together with loading strategies continues underexplored. OBJECTIVES: To uncover the MSC-Exo-mediated mechanism via proteomic analyses, and to use 3D-culture and loading technologies to expand MSC-Exo efficacy for cutaneous wound healing. METHODS: MSC-Exo were produced in either 3D or 2D cultures (Exo3D/Exo2D) and loaded with an exogenous immunosuppressive oligodeoxynucleotide (A151 ODN). Both, loaded and naive exosomes were characterised regarding size, morphology and the presence of specific protein markers; while IPA analyses enabled to correlate their protein content with the effects observed in vitro and in vivo. The Exo3D/Exo2D regenerative potential was evaluated in vitro by assessing keratinocyte and fibroblast mitogenicity, motogenicity, and cytokine secretion as well as using an in vivo wound splinting model. Accordingly, the modulation of inflammatory and immune responses by A151-loaded Exo3D/Exo2D was also assessed. RESULTS: Exo3D stimulated mitogenically and motogenically keratinocytes and fibroblasts in vitro, with upregulation of IL-1alpha and VEGF-alpha or increased secretion of TGF-beta, TNF-alpha and IL-10. In vivo, Exo3D reduced the granulation tissue area and promoted complete re-epithelization of the wound. These observations were sustained by the proteomic profiling of the Exo3D cargo that identified wound healing-related proteins, such as TGF-beta, ITGA1-3/5, IL-6, CDC151, S100A10 and Wnt5alpha. Moreover, when loaded with A151 ODN, Exo3D differentially mediated wound healing-related trophic factors reducing the systemic levels of IL-6 and TNF-alpha at the late stage of wound healing in vivo. CONCLUSION: Our results support the potential of A151-loaded Exo3D for the treatment of chronic wounds by promoting skin regeneration, while modulating the systemic levels of the pro-inflammatory cytokines.
PXD028330	36329028	Spatially resolved phosphoproteomics reveals fibroblast growth factor receptor recycling-driven regulation of autophagy and survival. 	Signalling and recycling endosomes_dataset 02	label free, signalling	Receptor Tyrosine Kinase (RTK) endocytosis-dependent signalling drives cell proliferation and motility during development and adult homeostasis, but is dysregulated in diseases, including cancer. The recruitment of RTK signalling partners during endocytosis, specifically during recycling to the plasma membrane, is still unknown. Focusing on Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 2b (FGFR2b) recycling, we reveal FGFR signalling partners proximal to recycling endosomes by developing a Spatially Resolved Phosphoproteomics (SRP) approach based on APEX2-driven biotinylation followed by phosphorylated peptides enrichment. Combining this with traditional phosphoproteomics, bioinformatics, and targeted assays, we uncover that FGFR2b stimulated by its recycling ligand FGF10 activates mTOR-dependent signalling and ULK1 at the recycling endosomes, leading to autophagy suppression and cell survival. This adds to the growing importance of RTK recycling in orchestrating cell fate and suggests a therapeutically targetable vulnerability in ligand-responsive cancer cells. Integrating SRP with other systems biology approaches provides a powerful tool to spatially resolve cellular signalling.
PXD033196	36329387	Identification of circular RNA BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 as a novel biomarker for coronary artery disease and the functional discovery of BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 based on peripheral blood mononuclear cells: a case control study. 	Proteins bound to BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 in coronary artery disease	BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563, ChIRP-MS, coronary artery disease, proteins	BACKGROUND: BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 is a novel circRNA and contains conserved binding sites with RNA-binding proteins. However, BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 has not been fully studied in coronary artery disease (CAD). We aimed to clarify the diagnostic value and the possible functional role of BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 in CAD. METHODS: A total of 276 human peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) samples were employed. The circularization of BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 was verified via Sanger sequencing. The expression level of BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 in CAD samples and control individuals was analysed via qRT-PCR. The diagnostic potential of BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 was evaluated using Spearman's analysis, univariate and multivariable logistic regression analysis, and receiver-operator characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. ChIRP-MS was performed to directly explore the proteins bound to BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563. Bioinformatic analysis was conducted to investigate the possible functions and interactions of proteins bound to BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563. RESULTS: In the present study, BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 was verified as a circular RNA in the PBMCs of CAD patients. The expression level of BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 in the CAD group was significantly lower than that in the control group. The area under the ROC curve was 0.690. ChIRP-MS found seven proteins that were directly bound to BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563. Bioinformatic analysis of these seven proteins showed that the mitophagy and DNA repair pathways were enriched. These proteins interacted with each other to a certain extent. CONCLUSION: BTBD7_hsa_circ_0000563 may be a novel biomarker for the diagnosis of CAD and may influence the initiation and progression of CAD. These studies may reveal new possibilities for the diagnosis and treatment of CAD.
PXD030707	36332031	USP7 regulates the ncPRC1 Polycomb axis to stimulate genomic H2AK119ub1 deposition uncoupled from H3K27me3. 	Multi-omics characterization of the USP7 regulatory circuitry reveals control of H2AK119ub1 dosage uncoupled from H3K27me3 .	AP-MS, PRC1, PRC2, PRM, Polycomb, USP7, histone H2A ubiquitylation, interactome, ubiquitin	Ubiquitin-specific protease 7 (USP7) has been implicated in cancer progression and neurodevelopment. However, its molecular targets remain poorly characterized. We combined quantitative proteomics, transcriptomics, and epigenomics to define the core USP7 network. Our multi-omics analysis reveals USP7 as a control hub that links genome regulation, tumor suppression, and histone H2A ubiquitylation (H2AK119ub1) by noncanonical Polycomb-repressive complexes (ncPRC1s). USP7 strongly stabilizes ncPRC1.6 and, to a lesser extent, ncPRC1.1. Moreover, USP7 represses expression of AUTS2, which suppresses H2A ubiquitylation by ncPRC1.3/5. Collectively, these USP7 activities promote the genomic deposition of H2AK119ub1 by ncPRC1, especially at transcriptionally repressed loci. Notably, USP7-dependent changes in H2AK119ub1 levels are uncoupled from H3K27me3. Even complete loss of the PRC1 catalytic core and H2AK119ub1 has only a limited effect on H3K27me3. Besides defining the USP7 regulome, our results reveal that H2AK119ub1 dosage is largely disconnected from H3K27me3.
PXD030077	36332889	A comparative Proteomics Analysis Identified Differentially Expressed Proteins in Pancreatic Cancer-Associated Stellate Cell Small Extracellular Vesicles. 	A comparative proteomics analysis identified differentially expressed proteins in pancreatic cancer-associated stellate cell small extracellular vesicles	exosomes, pancreatic cancer, stellate cells	Human pancreatic stellate cells (HPSCs) are an essential stromal component and mediators of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) progression. Small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) are membrane-enclosed nanoparticles involved in cell-to-cell communications and are released from stromal cells within PDAC. A detailed comparison of sEVs from normal pancreatic stellate cells (HPaStec) and from PDAC-associated stellate cells (HPSCs) remains a gap in our current knowledge regarding stellate cells and PDAC. We hypothesized there would be differences in sEVs secretion and protein expression that might contribute to PDAC biology. To test this hypothesis, we isolated sEVs using ultracentrifugation followed by characterization by electron microscopy and Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis. We report here our initial observations. First, HPSC cells derived from PDAC tumors secrete a higher volume of sEVs when compared to normal pancreatic stellate cells (HPaStec). Although our data revealed that both normal and tumor-derived sEVs demonstrated no significant biological effect on cancer cells, we observed efficient uptake of sEVs by both normal and cancer epithelial cells. Additionally, intact membrane-associated proteins on sEVs were essential for efficient uptake. We then compared sEV proteins isolated from HPSCs and HPaStecs cells using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Most of the 1481 protein groups identified were shared with the exosome database, ExoCarta. Eighty-seven protein groups were differentially expressed (selected by 2-fold difference and adjusted p value <=0.05) between HPSC and HPaStec sEVs. Of note, HPSC sEVs contained dramatically more CSE1L (chromosome segregation 1-like protein), a described marker of poor prognosis in patients with pancreatic cancer. Based on our results, we have demonstrated unique populations of sEVs originating from stromal cells with PDAC and suggest that these are significant to cancer biology. Further studies should be undertaken to gain a deeper understanding that could drive novel therapy.
PXD030345	36333310	YiaC and CobB regulate lysine lactylation in Escherichia coli. 	SILAC experiments profiling of the proteome of WT and CobB KO E.coli	CobB, E. coli, Lysine lactylation	Lysine lactylation (Kla) has recently been reported to participate in regulating transcription in human cells. However, the characterization, regulatory mechanism and functional consequence of Kla in prokaryotes remain unclear. Here, we report that YiaC functions as a lysine lactylase and that CobB serves as a lysine delactylase in the regulation of metabolism. We demonstrate that YiaC catalyzes the addition of Kla, while CobB erases this PTM both in vitro and intracellularly. Moreover, we show that YdiF can catalyze the formation of a lactyl-coenzyme A, which donates lactyl group for Kla. Quantitative proteomic analysis further reveals 446 endogenous Kla sites targeted by CobB and 79 candidates targeted by YiaC in Escherichia coli (E. coli). Furthermore, we present that Kla can influence the functions of metabolic enzymes. Interestingly, we demonstrate that CobB can specifically modulate the activity of PykF by regulating K382la, promoting glycolysis and bacterial growth. Our study identifies the regulatory enzymes and functional network of Kla and reveals a Kla-mediated molecular mechanism catalyzed by CobB for glycolysis regulation in E. coli.
PXD023718	36333327	CdGAP maintains podocyte function and modulates focal adhesions in a Src kinase-dependent manner. 	BioID using Rac1G15A in human podocyte	BioID, MS, Podocyte	Rho GTPases are regulators of the actin cytoskeleton and their activity is modulated by GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) and guanine nucleotide exchanging factors (GEFs). Glomerular podocytes have numerous actin-based projections called foot processes and their alteration is characteristic of proteinuric kidney diseases. We reported previously that Rac1 hyperactivation in podocytes causes proteinuria and glomerulosclerosis in mice. However, which GAP and GEF modulate Rac1 activity in podocytes remains unknown. Here, using a proximity-based ligation assay, we identified CdGAP (ARHGAP31) and beta-PIX (ARHGEF7) as the major regulatory proteins interacting with Rac1 in human podocytes. CdGAP interacted with beta-PIX through its basic region, and upon EGF stimulation, they both translocated to the plasma membrane in podocytes. CdGAP-depleted podocytes had altered cell motility and increased basal Rac1 and Cdc42 activities. When stimulated with EGF, CdGAP-depleted podocytes showed impaired beta-PIX membrane-translocation and tyrosine phosphorylation, and reduced activities of Src kinase, focal adhesion kinase, and paxillin. Systemic and podocyte-specific CdGAP-knockout mice developed mild but significant proteinuria, which was exacerbated by Adriamycin. Collectively, these findings show that CdGAP contributes to maintain podocyte function and protect them from injury.
PXD034918	36333500	DNA sequence and chromatin modifiers cooperate to confer epigenetic bistability at imprinting control regions. 	DNA sequence and chromatin modifiers cooperate to confer epigenetic bistability at imprinting control regions	DNA methylation, Epigenetic, Genomic Imprinting	Genomic imprinting is regulated by parental-specific DNA methylation of imprinting control regions (ICRs). Despite an identical DNA sequence, ICRs can exist in two distinct epigenetic states that are memorized throughout unlimited cell divisions and reset during germline formation. Here, we systematically study the genetic and epigenetic determinants of this epigenetic bistability. By iterative integration of ICRs and related DNA sequences to an ectopic location in the mouse genome, we first identify the DNA sequence features required for maintenance of epigenetic states in embryonic stem cells. The autonomous regulatory properties of ICRs further enabled us to create DNA-methylation-sensitive reporters and to screen for key components involved in regulating their epigenetic memory. Besides DNMT1, UHRF1 and ZFP57, we identify factors that prevent switching from methylated to unmethylated states and show that two of these candidates, ATF7IP and ZMYM2, are important for the stability of DNA and H3K9 methylation at ICRs in embryonic stem cells.
PXD036517	36333584	In vivo PDX CRISPR/Cas9 screens reveal mutual therapeutic targets to overcome heterogeneous acquired chemo-resistance. 	In vivo PDX CRISPR/Cas9 screens reveal mutual therapeutic targets to overcome heterogeneous acquired chemo-resistance	Chemoresistance, Drug resistance, Leukemia, PDX	Resistance towards cancer treatment represents a major clinical obstacle, preventing cure of cancer patients. To gain mechanistic insights, we developed a model for acquired resistance to chemotherapy by treating mice carrying patient derived xenografts (PDX) of acute lymphoblastic leukemia with widely-used cytotoxic drugs for 18 consecutive weeks. In two distinct PDX samples, tumors initially responded to treatment, until stable disease and eventually tumor re-growth evolved under therapy, at highly similar kinetics between replicate mice. Notably, replicate tumors developed different mutations in TP53 and individual sets of chromosomal alterations, suggesting independent parallel clonal evolution rather than selection, driven by a combination of stochastic and deterministic processes. Transcriptome and proteome showed shared dysregulations between replicate tumors providing putative targets to overcome resistance. In vivo CRISPR/Cas9 dropout screens in PDX revealed broad dependency on BCL2, BRIP1 and COPS2. Accordingly, venetoclax re-sensitized derivative tumors towards chemotherapy, despite genomic heterogeneity, demonstrating direct translatability of the approach. Hence, despite the presence of multiple resistance-associated genomic alterations, effective rescue treatment for polychemotherapy-resistant tumors can be identified using functional testing in preclinical models.
PXD032036	36333693	Long-term evaluation of safety and biological effects of Korean Red Ginseng (Panax Ginseng): a long-term in vivo study. 	Long term evaluation of biological effects of Korean Red Ginseng in rat serum	Korean Red Ginseng, SD Rat, Safety, Serum, immunity	BACKGROUND: Although Korean Red Ginseng (KRG) is safe, this finding was only evaluated in 3-mo-long studies. Its safety was verified through a 6-mo KRG administration clinical study, but long-term studies beyond 6 mo are insufficient. This study investigated the safety and efficacy of 12-mo KRG administration. METHODS: In this study, 300 mg/kg of KRG was administered to male and female Sprague Dawley rats for 4, 8, and 12 mo to evaluate its efficacy and safety. Clinical signs, including pathological examination and haematological analyses, were observed. Flow cytometric analyses were utilised to analyse spleen and thymus immune cell counts after 12 mo. Proteomic analysis of the sera was performed using a nanospray-interfaced mass spectrometer with an 11-plex Tandem Mass Tag (TMT) labelling system. Bioinformatic analysis was then performed using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis and PANTHER. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD032036. RESULTS: No significant body and organ weight changes were observed, and haematological and serum biochemical analyses did not show clinical significance. The effectiveness of long-term KRG administration was confirmed through increased immune cell distribution and activity. Changes in proteins correlated with viral infection reduction were confirmed through proteomic analysis. CONCLUSION: The results suggested that 12-mo KRG intake is safe, improves immune system activity, and reduces viral infections with no significant changes in toxicological aspects.
PXD030876	36333799	Metagenomic and proteomic analysis of bacterial retting community and proteome profile in the degumming process of kenaf bast. 	Investigation of the bacterial retting community and Proteome profile in the degumming process of kenaf bast based on metagenomic and proteomics	kenaf fiber	BACKGROUND: Data on the microbial community and functional proteins associated with degumming in kenaf remains scant. Here, we analyzed the microbial communities associated with kenaf (Hibiscus cannabinus) bast fibers during retting to identify potential candidate degumming bacteria. Retting liquids were collected and analyzed at 0 days, 10 days, and 34 days and then evaluated the yield and quality of kenaf fiber at the different retting times. Besides, the microbial communities were characterized using metagenomic and proteomic analysis by LC-MS/MS technology. RESULTS: The data showed that increase in the retting time significantly improves the softness, dispersion, and fiber whiteness of the kenaf fiber. The relative abundance of Acinetobacter increased from 2.88% at the baseline to 6.64% at the 34th retting. On the other hand, some members of Clostridium were reduced from 3% at the baseline to 2% at the 34th retting. Analysis of carbohydrate active enzymes showed constant changes in the utilization of carbohydrates. Besides, benzoquinone reductase, cellobiose dehydrogenase, glucose 1-oxidase, aryl alcohol oxidase and alcohol oxidase were the top five most abundant enzymes in the retting liquids. This present results demonstrated that the expressions of B7GYR8, Q6RYW5 and Q6FFK2 proteins were suppressed in Acinetobacter with the retting time. On the contrary, P05149 was upregulated with the retting time. In Clostridium, P37698, P52040 and P54937 proteins were upregulated with the retting time. CONCLUSION: In addition, bacteria Acinetobacter and Clostridium might be playing important roles in the kenaf degumming process. Similarly, up-regulation of P37698, P52040 and P54937 proteins is an important manifestation and mediates important roles in the degumming process.
PXD030051	36333987	The freezability of Mediterranean buffalo sperm is associated with lysine succinylation and lipid metabolism. 	lysine succinylation files of different freezability Mediterranean buffalo sperms.	buffalo, freezability, lysine succinylation, sperm	Semen cryopreservation is used for the propagation of variety among species and domestic breeding. Mitochondria are implicated in sperm freezability, and their proteins are prone to succinylation, but the relationship between sperm freezability and mitochondrial protein succinylation is unclear. In this study, six bulls were classified as having good or poor freezability ejaculates (GFE or PFE, each 3 bulls). The fresh sperm mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP) and pan succinylation level of the two groups were first detected. Then the lysine succinylome and fatty acid content of the two groups were analyzed using label-free LC-MS/MS and GC-MS/MS in multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) modes, respectively. The results indicated that the GFE sperm had significantly higher MMPs than the PFE group (p < 0.05). A total of 1393 succinylation sites corresponding to 426 proteins were assessed and 5 succinylated peptides of the GFE group were markedly upregulated, while 3 were significantly downregulated (FC > 2.0 - < 0.5 and p-value < 0.05) when compared to the PFE group. Forty-six succinylated proteins were identified to have consistent presence/absence expression. The upregulated succinylated proteins in the GFE sperm were enriched in lipid metabolic processes. A total of 31 fatty acids were further subjected to quantitative analysis of which 23 including arachidic (C20:0), linolenic (C18:3n3), and docosahexaenoic acids (C22:6n3) were decreased in GFE sperm when compared with PFE (p < 0.05). These results suggest that lysine succinylation can potentially influence the sperm freezability of Mediterranean buffaloes through mitochondrial lipid metabolism. This novel study provides our understanding of sperm succinylation and the molecular basis for the mechanism of sperm freezability.
PXD036947	36334589	Architecture of the outbred brown fat proteome defines regulators of metabolic physiology. 	Architecture of the outbred brown fat proteome defines regulators of metabolic physiology	QTL, diversity outbred, metabolic disease, network, obesity, phenotype, physiology	Brown adipose tissue (BAT) regulates metabolic physiology. However, nearly all mechanistic studies of BAT protein function occur in a single inbred mouse strain, which has limited the understanding of generalizable mechanisms of BAT regulation over physiology. Here, we perform deep quantitative proteomics of BAT across a cohort of 163 genetically defined diversity outbred mice, a model that parallels the genetic and phenotypic variation found in humans. We leverage this diversity to define the functional architecture of the outbred BAT proteome, comprising 10,479 proteins. We assign co-operative functions to 2,578 proteins, enabling systematic discovery of regulators of BAT. We also identify 638 proteins that correlate with protection from, or sensitivity to, at least one parameter of metabolic disease. We use these findings to uncover SFXN5, LETMD1, and ATP1A2 as modulators of BAT thermogenesis or adiposity, and provide OPABAT as a resource for understanding the conserved mechanisms of BAT regulation over metabolic physiology.
PXD029273	36334875	Hsa-let-7f-1-3p targeting the circadian gene Bmal1 mediates intervertebral disc degeneration by regulating autophagy. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic  landscape reveals the functional contributions of circadian gene Bmal1 in rat nucleus pulposus cells	Bmal1, circadian rhythm, intervertebral disc degeneration, nucleus pulposus	The intervertebral disc has an intrinsic circadian rhythm, elimination of which leads to stress in nucleus pulposus cells (NPCs), contributing to intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD). Disruption or deletion of Bmal1 (a core transcription factor) results in complete loss of circadian rhythms, make mice susceptibility to IDD. However, the underlying mechanism by which Bmal1 mediates IDD is remains enigmatic, and whether there are other upstream factors regulating Bmal1 in NPCs. In our study, we first found that the decrease of Bmal1 was significantly correlated with the grades of IDD. With gain- and loss-of-function, Bmal1 shown a protective effect on NPC viability and functions. Transcriptomic and proteomic landscape reveals the functional contributions of Bmal1, and phosphoproteomic analysis links to autophagy. Bioinformatics analysis identified that a novel miRNA hsa-let-7f-1-3p was directly target Bmal1 3'UTR and negatively correlated with NPC function. Finally, our animal model confirmed the protective role of Bmal1 in rat IDD and this effect could be attenuated by hsa-let-7f-1-3p. The hsa-let-7f-1-3p/Bmal1/autophagy axis provides a potential therapeutic strategy for the clinical treatment of IDD.
PXD034526	36335129	LINC00839 promotes malignancy of liver cancer via binding FMNL2 under hypoxia. 	LINC00839 promotes malignancy of liver cancer via binding FMNL2 under hypoxia	Formin-like protein 2, Hypoxia, Liver cancer, Long non-coding RNA	Liver cancer is one of the most common malignant tumors in the world and metastasis is the leading cause of death associated with liver cancer. Hypoxia is a common feature of solid tumors and enhances malignant character of cancer cells. However, the exact mechanisms involved in hypoxia-driven liver cancer progression and metastasis have not been well clarified so far. The aim of this study was to investigate the contribution of long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) in hypoxia promoting liver cancer progression. We screened and revealed LINC00839 as a novel hypoxia-responsive lncRNA in liver cancer. LINC00839 expression was up-regulated in liver cancer tissues and cell lines, and the patients with high LINC00839 expression had shortened overall survival. LINC00839 further overexpressed under hypoxia and promoted liver cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. Mechanistically, LINC00839 bound multiple proteins that were primarily associated with the metabolism and RNA transport, and positively regulated the expression of Formin-like protein 2 (FMNL2). LINC00839 could promote hypoxia-mediated liver cancer progression, suggesting it may be a clinically valuable biomarker and serve as a molecular target for the diagnosis, prognosis, and therapy of liver cancer.
PXD036463	36336075	A comprehensive set of ER protein disulfide isomerase family members supports the biogenesis of proinflammatory interleukin 12 family cytokines. 	A comprehensive set of ER PDI family members supports the biogenesis of pro-inflammatory interleukin 12 family cytokines	chaperone, genetic code expansion, interleukin, protein disulfide isomerase, protein folding	Cytokines of the interleukin 12 (IL-12) family are assembled combinatorially from shared alpha and beta subunits. A common theme is that human IL-12 family alpha subunits remain incompletely structured in isolation until they pair with a designate beta subunit. Accordingly, chaperones need to support and control specific assembly processes. It remains incompletely understood, which chaperones are involved in IL-12 family biogenesis. Here, we site-specifically introduce photocrosslinking amino acids into the IL-12 and IL-23 alpha subunits (IL-12alpha and IL-23alpha) for stabilization of transient chaperone-client complexes for mass spectrometry. Our analysis reveals that a large set of endoplasmic reticulum chaperones interacts with IL-12alpha and IL-23alpha. Among these chaperones, we focus on protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) family members and reveal IL-12 family subunits to be clients of several incompletely characterized PDIs. We find that different PDIs show selectivity for different cysteines in IL-12alpha and IL-23alpha. Despite this, PDI binding generally stabilizes unassembled IL-12alpha and IL-23alpha against degradation. In contrast, alpha:beta assembly appears robust, and only multiple simultaneous PDI depletions reduce IL-12 secretion. Our comprehensive analysis of the IL-12/IL-23 chaperone machinery reveals a hitherto uncharacterized role for several PDIs in this process. This extends our understanding of how cells accomplish the task of specific protein assembly reactions for signaling processes. Furthermore, our findings show that cytokine secretion can be modulated by targeting specific endoplasmic reticulum chaperones.
PXD038448	36336260	Global landscape of lysine acylomes in Bacillus subtilis. 	Lysine acylation in Bacillus subtilis	Lysine acetylation, Lysine malonylation, Lysine propionylation, Lysine succinylation	Lysine acetylation is a common posttranslational modification that regulates numerous biochemical functions in both eukaryotic and prokaryotic species. In addition, several new non-acetyl acylations are structurally different from lysine acetylation and participate in diverse physiological functions. Here, a comprehensive analysis of several lysine acylomes was performed by combining the high-affinity antibody enrichment with high-resolution LC-MS/MS. In total, we identified 2536 lysine acetylated sites, 4723 propionylated sites, 2150 succinylated sites and 3001 malonylated sites in Bacillus subtilis, respectively. These acylated proteins account for 35.8% of total protein in this bacterium. The four lysine acylomes showed a motif preference for glutamate surrounding the modified lysine residues, and a functional preference for several metabolic pathways, such as carbon metabolism, fatty acid metabolism, and ribosome. In addition, more protein-protein interaction clusters were identified in the propionylated substrates than other three lysine acylomes. In summary, our study presents a global landscape of acylation in the Gram-positive model organism Bacillus and their potential functions in metabolism and physiology.
PXD035777	36339704	Gut microbiota-dependent adaptor molecule recruits DNA methyltransferase to the TLR4 gene in colonic epithelial cells to suppress inflammatory reactions. 	Adaptor molecule of DNA methylation in IECs	Human intestinal epithelial cell lines	The intestine is inhabited by a large number of commensal bacteria that are immunologically non-self, potentially causing inflammation. However, in a healthy intestine, inflammation is strictly controlled at low levels to maintain homeostasis. We previously reported that the gut microbiota induce DNA methylation of the gene encoding Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4, a pattern recognition receptor that recognizes lipopolysaccharides of gram-negative bacteria, in colonic epithelial cells, suggesting its role in controlling intestinal inflammation. However, there remains a question of how gut microbiota cause methylation of only specific genes including TLR4, despite the fact that DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) is common to all genes targeted for methylation. Here, we identified RBM14 as an adaptor molecule that recruits DNMT to the TLR4 gene. RBM14 was shown to bind DNMT3 and be expressed at significantly higher levels in an intestinal epithelial cell (IEC) line with hypermethylated TLR4 gene than in an IEC line with hypomethylated TLR4 gene. In addition, RBM14 interacted with DNA regions of the TLR4 gene, and knockdown of RBM14 suppressed DNA methylation of the TLR4 gene in IECs. Furthermore, RBM14 expression was higher in colonic epithelial cells of conventional mice than in those of germ-free mice. Collectively, these results indicate that the gut microbiota induce methylation of the TLR4 gene in colonic epithelial cells by upregulating RBM14, which can recruit DNMT3 to the gene. The regulation of adaptor molecules such as RBM14, which bind to specific target genes and recruit DNMT, can explain, at least in part, how gut microbiota contribute to the maintenance of intestinal homeostasis through epigenetic control of specific gene expression in IECs.
PXD036672	36340335	Integrative analysis of transcriptome, proteome, and ubiquitome changes during rose petal abscission. 	Proteomes and Ubiquitylomes Analysis in rosa hybrida during petal abscission.	Ubiquitination, petal abscission, rosa hybrida	Plant organ abscission is regulated by multiple physiological and biochemical processes. However, the transcriptional, translational, and post-translational modifications occurring during organ abscission have not been systematically investigated. In this study, we report transcriptome, proteome, and ubiquitome data for the abscission zone (AZ) of rose petals collected during petal shedding. We quantified 40,506 genes, 6,595 proteins, and 2,720 ubiquitinated proteins in rose petal AZ. Our results showed that during petal abscission, 1,496 genes were upregulated and 2,199 were downregulated; 271 proteins were upregulated and 444 were downregulated; and 139 ubiquitination sites in 100 proteins were upregulated and 55 ubiquitination sites in 48 proteins were downregulated. Extracellular levels of cell component proteins were significantly increased, while levels within protoplasts were significantly decreased. During petal abscission, transcript levels of genes involved in defense response, transport, and metabolism changed significantly. Levels of proteins involved in the starch and sucrose metabolism and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis pathways were significantly altered at both the transcript and protein levels. The transcriptional and translational upregulation of peroxidase (POD), in the phenylpropanoid biosynthesis, pathway may be associated with deposition of lignin, which forms a protective layer during petal abscission. Overall, our data provide a comprehensive assessment of the translational and post-translational changes that occur during rose petal abscission.
PXD031497	36340382	The Rice Aspartyl-tRNA Synthetase YLC3 Regulates Amino Acid Homeostasis and Chloroplast Development Under Low Temperature. 	The rice aspartyl-tRNA synthetase YLC3 regulates amino acid homeostasis and chloroplast development under low temperature	amino acid homeostasis, aspartyl-tRNA synthetase, chloroplast development, low temperature, rice	Aminoacyl tRNA synthetases primarily function to attach specific amino acids to the corresponding tRNAs during protein translation. However, their roles in regulating plant growth and development still remain elusive. Here we reported a rice thermo-sensitive mutant yellow leaf chlorosis3 (ylc3) with reduced chlorophyll content, altered thylakoid structure, and substantially elevated levels of free aspartate, asparagine and glutamine in leaves under low temperature condition. Map-based cloning identified that YLC3 encodes an aspartyl-tRNA synthetase which is localized in cytosol and mitochondria. In addition, quantitative proteomics analysis revealed that both nuclear and chloroplast-encoded thylakoid proteins were significantly down-regulated in the mutant. On the other hand, proteins involved in amino acid metabolism and the process of protein synthesis were up-regulated in ylc3, particularly for key enzymes that convert aspartate to asparagine. Moreover, uncharged tRNA-Asp accumulation and phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2alpha was detected in the mutant, suggesting that YLC3 regulates the homeostasis of amino acid metabolism and chloroplast thylakoid development through modulation of processes during protein synthesis.
PXD032217	36341354	Effects of hypoxia on antigen presentation and T cell-based immune recognition of HPV16-transformed cells. 	Effects of hypoxia on antigen presentation and T cell-based immune recognition of HPV16-transformed cells	Antigen presentation machinery (APM), HPV16, cytotoxic CD8+ T cells	Attempts to develop a therapeutic vaccine against human papillomavirus (HPV)-induced malignancies have mostly not been clinically successful to date. One reason may be the hypoxic microenvironment present in most tumors, including cervical cancer. Hypoxia dysregulates the levels of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I molecules in different tumor entities, impacts the function of cytotoxic T cells, and leads to decreased protein levels of the oncoproteins E6 and E7 in HPV-transformed cells. Therefore, we investigated the effect of hypoxia on the presentation of HPV16 E6- and E7-derived epitopes in cervical cancer cells and its effect on epitope-specific T cell cytotoxicity. Hypoxia induced downregulation of E7 protein levels in all analyzed cell lines, as assessed by Western blotting. However, contrary to previous reports, no perturbation of antigen processing and presentation machinery (APM) components and HLA-A2 surface expression upon hypoxia treatment was detected by mass spectrometry and flow cytometry, respectively. Cytotoxicity assays performed in hypoxic conditions showed differential effects on the specific killing of HPV16-positive cervical cancer cells by epitope-specific CD8(+) T cell lines in a donor- and peptide-specific manner. Effects of hypoxia on the expression of PD-L1 were ruled out by flow cytometry analysis. Altogether, our results under hypoxia show a decreased expression of E6 and E7, but an intact APM, and epitope- and donor-dependent effects on T cell cytotoxicity towards HPV16-positive target cells. This suggests that successful immunotherapies can be developed for hypoxic HPV-induced cervical cancer, with careful choice of target epitopes, and ideally in combination with hypoxia-alleviating measures.
PXD035626	36341492	Blocking STAT3/5 through direct or upstream kinase targeting in leukemic cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. 	Using global proteomics to investigate the effect of IQDMA treatment on Leukemic forms of cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (L-CTCL)  cells	cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (L-CTCL), global proteomics, kinase	Leukemic cutaneous T-cell lymphomas (L-CTCL) are lymphoproliferative disorders of skin-homing mature T-cells causing severe symptoms and high mortality through chronic inflammation, tissue destruction, and serious infections. Despite numerous genomic sequencing efforts, recurrent driver mutations have not been identified, but chromosomal losses and gains are frequent and dominant. We integrated genomic landscape analyses with innovative pharmacologic interference studies to identify key vulnerable nodes in L-CTCL. We detected copy number gains of loci containing the STAT3/5 oncogenes in 74% (n = 17/23) of L-CTCL, which correlated with the increased clonal T-cell count in the blood. Dual inhibition of STAT3/5 using small-molecule degraders and multi-kinase blockers abolished L-CTCL cell growth in vitro and ex vivo, whereby PAK kinase inhibition was specifically selective for L-CTCL patient cells carrying STAT3/5 gains. Importantly, the PAK inhibitor FRAx597 demonstrated encouraging anti-leukemic activity in vivo by inhibiting tumor growth and disease dissemination in intradermally xenografted mice. We conclude that STAT3/5 and PAK kinase interaction represents a new therapeutic node to be further explored in L-CTCL.
PXD036754	36342187	Multiomics analysis of the mechanisms behind flavonoid differences between purple and green tender shoots of Camellia sinensis var. assamica. 	The proteomes of tea cultivars Zijuan and Yunkang10	Yunkang10 shoot, Zijuan shoot	Flavonoids are rich in tea plants (Camellia sinensis), and responsible for the flavor and healthful benefits of tea beverage. The anthocyanin levels in the purple tender shoots are higher than in the general green leaves of tea plant, which provide special materials to search metabolic mechanisms of flavonoid enrichment in plant. In this work, flavonoid differences between purple and green shoots from tea cultivars "Zijuan" (ZJ) and "Yunkang10" (YK-10) were investigated through metabolomic analysis, and mechanisms for their difference were surveyed by comparative transcriptomic and proteomic analysis. Levels of 34 flavonoids were different between ZJ and YK-10 shoots. Among them, 8 and 6 were marker metabolites in ZJ and YK-10, respectively. The differentially expressed genes (DEGs), differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), and different-level metabolites (DLMs) between ZJ and YK-10 were researched, respectively; and interactions including DEG-DLM, DEP-DLM, DEG-DEP, and DEG-DEP-DLM were analyzed; the contents of 18 characteristic flavonoids in tea leaves and expressions of 34 flavonoid metabolic genes were measured to verify the omics results. Integrated above analyses, a proposed model of flavonoids biosynthesis in tea shoots were established. The differential expression of the leucoanthocyanidin reductase (LAR), anthocyanidin synthase (ANS), anthocyanidin reductase (ANR), UDPG-flavonoid glucosyltransferase (UGT) 75L12 and 94P1 at gene level, and the ANS, ANR, and UGT78A15 at protein level, were closely associated with differences in flavonoids between ZJ and YK-10 shoot. Together, this study provides new information on the flavonoid accumulation mechanism in tea plant.
PXD033759	36342273	IL-33 induces granzyme C expression in murine mast cells via an MSK1/2-CREB-dependent pathway. 	Bone marrow-derived mast cells +- IL-33 48h	Granulocyte, IL-33, LC-MS, Mast cell	Granzymes comprise a group of proteases involved in the killing of infected or cancerous cells by the immune system. Although best studied in T cells and natural killer (NK) cells, they are also expressed in some innate immune cells. Granzymes B and C are encoded in the mouse chymase locus that also encodes a number of mast cell-specific proteases. In line with this, mast cells can express granzyme B, although how this is regulated and their ability to express other granzymes is less well studied. We therefore examined how IL-33, a cytokine able to activate mast cells but not induce degranulation, regulated granzyme B and C levels in mast cells. Granzyme C, but not B, mRNA was strongly up-regulated in bone marrow-derived mast cells following IL-33 stimulation and there was a corresponding increase in granzyme C protein. These increases in both granzyme C mRNA and protein were blocked by a combination of the p38alpha/beta MAPK inhibitor VX745 and the MEK1/2 inhibitor PD184352, which blocks the activation of ERK1/2. ERK1/2 and p38alpha activate the downstream kinases, mitogen and stress-activated kinases (MSK) 1 and 2, and IL-33 stimulated the phosphorylation of MSK1 and its substrate CREB in an ERK1/2 and p38-dependent manner. The promoter for granzyme C contains a potential CREB-binding site. Bone marrow-derived mast cells from either MSK1/2 double knockout or CREB Ser133Ala knockin mice were unable to up-regulate granzyme C. Together these results indicate that IL-33-induced granzyme C expression in mast cells is regulated by an MSK1/2-CREB-dependent pathway.
PXD032887	36344509	Integrated proteogenomic characterization of medullary thyroid carcinoma. 	Integrated Proteogenomic Characterization of Medullary Thyroid Carcinoma	Global proteome, Medullary thyroid carcinoma, Phosphoproteome	Medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) is a rare neuroendocrine malignancy derived from parafollicular cells (C cells) of the thyroid. Here we presented a comprehensive multi-omics landscape of 102 MTCs through whole-exome sequencing, RNA sequencing, DNA methylation array, proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling. Integrated analyses identified BRAF and NF1 as novel driver genes in addition to the well-characterized RET and RAS proto-oncogenes. Proteome-based stratification of MTCs revealed three molecularly heterogeneous subtypes named as: (1) Metabolic, (2) Basal and (3) Mesenchymal, which are distinct in genetic drivers, epigenetic modification profiles, clinicopathologic factors and clinical outcomes. Furthermore, we explored putative therapeutic targets of each proteomic subtype, and found that two tenascin family members TNC/TNXB might serve as potential prognostic biomarkers for MTC. Collectively, our study expands the knowledge of MTC biology and therapeutic vulnerabilities, which may serve as an important resource for future investigation on this malignancy.
PXD028670	36344511	Sister chromatid exchanges induced by perturbed replication can form independently of BRCA1, BRCA2 and RAD51. 	Sister chromatid exchanges independent of canonical homologous recombination factors.	HR, MS, PARP inhibitors, SCE, Xenopus laevis, biotin, cross-over, genome stability, interphase, mitosis, synthetic lethality	Sister chromatid exchanges (SCEs) are products of joint DNA molecule resolution, and are considered to form through homologous recombination (HR). Indeed, SCE induction upon irradiation requires the canonical HR factors BRCA1, BRCA2 and RAD51. In contrast, replication-blocking agents, including PARP inhibitors, induce SCEs independently of BRCA1, BRCA2 and RAD51. PARP inhibitor-induced SCEs are enriched at difficult-to-replicate genomic regions, including common fragile sites (CFSs). PARP inhibitor-induced replication lesions are transmitted into mitosis, suggesting that SCEs can originate from mitotic processing of under-replicated DNA. Proteomics analysis reveals mitotic recruitment of DNA polymerase theta (POLQ) to synthetic DNA ends. POLQ inactivation results in reduced SCE numbers and severe chromosome fragmentation upon PARP inhibition in HR-deficient cells. Accordingly, analysis of CFSs in cancer genomes reveals frequent allelic deletions, flanked by signatures of POLQ-mediated repair. Combined, we show PARP inhibition generates under-replicated DNA, which is processed into SCEs during mitosis, independently of canonical HR factors.
PXD027984	36344512	Connecting multiple microenvironment proteomes uncovers the biology in head and neck cancer. 	Multisite proteome provides insights into the biology and prognostic markers for head and neck cancer	Biomarkers, Buffy coat, Head and Neck Squamous Cell Carcinoma, Immune System, Lymph Node Metastasis, Machine Learning, Mouth Neoplasms, Prognosis, Saliva	The poor prognosis of head and neck cancer (HNC) is associated with metastasis within the lymph nodes (LNs). Herein, the proteome of 140 multisite samples from a 59-HNC patient cohort, including primary and matched LN-negative or -positive tissues, saliva, and blood cells, reveals insights into the biology and potential metastasis biomarkers that may assist in clinical decision-making. Protein profiles are strictly associated with immune modulation across datasets, and this provides the basis for investigating immune markers associated with metastasis. The proteome of LN metastatic cells recapitulates the proteome of the primary tumor sites. Conversely, the LN microenvironment proteome highlights the candidate prognostic markers. By integrating prioritized peptide, protein, and transcript levels with machine learning models, we identify nodal metastasis signatures in blood and saliva. We present a proteomic characterization wiring multiple sites in HNC, thus providing a promising basis for understanding tumoral biology and identifying metastasis-associated signatures.
PXD031357	36344525	SAMHD1 deacetylation by SIRT1 promotes DNA end resection by facilitating DNA binding at double-strand breaks. 	SAMHD1 deacetylation by SIRT1 promotes DNA end resection by facilitating DNA binding at double-strand breaks	IPMS, acetylation	Sterile alpha motif and HD domain-containing protein 1 (SAMHD1) has a dNTPase-independent function in promoting DNA end resection to facilitate DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair by homologous recombination (HR); however, it is not known if upstream signaling events govern this activity. Here, we show that SAMHD1 is deacetylated by the SIRT1 sirtuin deacetylase, facilitating its binding with ssDNA at DSBs, to promote DNA end resection and HR. SIRT1 complexes with and deacetylates SAMHD1 at conserved lysine 354 (K354) specifically in response to DSBs. K354 deacetylation by SIRT1 promotes DNA end resection and HR but not SAMHD1 tetramerization or dNTPase activity. Mechanistically, K354 deacetylation by SIRT1 promotes SAMHD1 recruitment to DSBs and binding to ssDNA at DSBs, which in turn facilitates CtIP ssDNA binding, leading to promotion of genome integrity. These findings define a mechanism governing the dNTPase-independent resection function of SAMHD1 by SIRT1 deacetylation in promoting HR and genome stability.
PXD027451	36344699	Bassoon contributes to tau-seed propagation and neurotoxicity. 	Bassoon contributes to tau-seed neurotoxicity and propagation.	AD, Bassoon., PSP, aggregation, brain, neurotoxicity, propagation, tau, tauopathy	Tau aggregation is a defining histopathological feature of Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies. However, the cellular mechanisms involved in tau propagation remain unclear. Here, we performed an unbiased quantitative proteomic study to identify proteins that specifically interact with this tau seed. We identified Bassoon (BSN), a presynaptic scaffolding protein, as an interactor of the tau seed isolated from a mouse model of tauopathy, and from Alzheimer's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy postmortem samples. We show that BSN exacerbates tau seeding and toxicity in both mouse and Drosophila models for tauopathy, and that BSN downregulation decreases tau spreading and overall disease pathology, rescuing synaptic and behavioral impairments and reducing brain atrophy. Our findings improve the understanding of how tau seeds can be stabilized by interactors such as BSN. Inhibiting tau-seed interactions is a potential new therapeutic approach for neurodegenerative tauopathies.
PXD035318	36346018	LRG1 is an adipokine that promotes insulin sensitivity and suppresses inflammation. 	LRG1 is an adipokine that promotes insulin sensitivity and suppresses inflammation	LRG1, adipokine, inflammation, insulin	While dysregulation of adipocyte endocrine function plays a central role in obesity and its complications, the vast majority of adipokines remain uncharacterized. We employed bio-orthogonal non-canonical amino acid tagging (BONCAT) and mass spectrometry to comprehensively characterize the secretome of murine visceral and subcutaneous white and interscapular brown adip ocytes. Over 600 proteins were identified, the majority of which showed cell type-specific enrichment. We here describe a metabolic role for leucine-rich alpha-2 glycoprotein 1 (LRG1) as an obesity-regulated adipokine secreted by mature adipocytes. LRG1 overexpression significantly improved glucose homeostasis in diet-induced and genetically obese mice. This was associated with markedly reduced white adipose tissue macrophage accumulation and systemic inflammation. Mechanistically, we found LRG1 binds cytochrome c in circulation to dampen its pro-inflammatory effect. These data support a new role for LRG1 as an insulin sensitizer with therapeutic potential given its immunomodulatory function at the nexus of obesity, inflammation, and associated pathology.
PXD033021	36347252	Reduced mitochondria provide an essential function for the cytosolic methionine cycle. 	Reduced mitochondria provide an essential function for the cytosolic methionine cycle	LOPIT, Paratrimastix, Reduced mitochondria, glycine cleavage system, methionine cycle, mitochondrial loss, one-carbon metabolism	The loss of mitochondria in oxymonad protists has been associated with the redirection of the essential Fe-S cluster assembly to the cytosol. Yet as our knowledge of diverse free-living protists broadens, the list of functions of their mitochondrial-related organelles (MROs) expands. We revealed another such function in the closest oxymonad relative, Paratrimastix pyriformis, after we solved the proteome of its MRO with high accuracy, using localization of organelle proteins by isotope tagging (LOPIT). The newly assigned enzymes connect to the glycine cleavage system (GCS) and produce folate derivatives with one-carbon units and formate. These are likely to be used by the cytosolic methionine cycle involved in S-adenosyl methionine recycling. The data provide consistency with the presence of the GCS in MROs of free-living species and its absence in most endobionts, which typically lose the methionine cycle and, in the case of oxymonads, the mitochondria.
PXD031261	36347866	Regulation of BRCA1 stability through the tandem UBX domains of isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase 1. 	Isoleucyl-tRNA synthetase interactome analysis	interactome, structure, tRNA synthetase	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (ARSs) have evolved to acquire various additional domains. These domains allow ARSs to communicate with other cellular proteins in order to promote non-translational functions. Vertebrate cytoplasmic isoleucyl-tRNA synthetases (IARS1s) have an uncharacterized unique domain, UNE-I. Here, we present the crystal structure of the chicken IARS1 UNE-I complexed with glutamyl-tRNA synthetase 1 (EARS1). UNE-I consists of tandem ubiquitin regulatory X (UBX) domains that interact with a distinct hairpin loop on EARS1 and protect its neighboring proteins in the multi-synthetase complex from degradation. Phosphomimetic mutation of the two serine residues in the hairpin loop releases IARS1 from the complex. IARS1 interacts with BRCA1 in the nucleus, regulates its stability by inhibiting ubiquitylation via the UBX domains, and controls DNA repair function.
PXD036491	36348270	Proteomic analysis identifies a signature of disease severity in the plasma of COVID-19 pneumonia patients associated to neutrophil, platelet and complement activation. 	Proteomic analysis identifies a signature of disease severity in the plasma of COVID-19 pneumonia patients associated to neutrophil, platelet and complement activation	Covid-19, ProteomeXchange project tag: Sars-cov-2, SARS CoV 2, complement, neutrophils, plasma, platelets	Most patients infected with SARS-CoV-2 display mild symptoms with good prognosis, while 20% of patients suffer from severe viral pneumonia and up to 5% may require intensive care unit (ICU) admission due to severe acute respiratory syndrome, which could be accompanied by multiorgan failure.Plasma proteomics provide valuable and unbiased information about disease progression and therapeutic candidates. Recent proteomic studies have identified molecular changes in plasma of COVID-19 patients that implied significant dysregulation of several aspects of the inflammatory response accompanied by a general metabolic suppression. However, which of these plasma alterations are associated with disease severity remains only partly characterized.A known limitation of proteomic studies of plasma samples is the large difference in the macromolecule abundance, with concentration spanning at least 10 orders of magnitude. To improve the coverage of plasma contents, we performed a deep proteomic analysis of plasma from 10 COVID-19 patients with severe/fatal pneumonia compared to 10 COVID-19 patients with pneumonia who did not require ICU admission (non-ICU). To this aim, plasma samples were first depleted of the most abundant proteins, trypsin digested and peptides subjected to a high pH reversed-phase peptide fractionation before LC-MS analysis.These results highlighted an increase of proteins involved in neutrophil and platelet activity and acute phase response, which is significantly higher in severe/fatal COVID-19 patients when compared to non-ICU ones. Importantly, these changes are associated with a selective induction of complement cascade factors in severe/fatal COVID-19 patients. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD036491. Among these alterations, we confirmed by ELISA that higher levels of the neutrophil granule proteins DEFA3 and LCN2 are present in COVID-19 patients requiring ICU admission when compared to non-ICU and healthy donors.Altogether, our study provided an in-depth view of plasma proteome changes that occur in COVID-19 patients in relation to disease severity, which can be helpful to identify therapeutic strategies to improve the disease outcome.
PXD056632	36349223	Quantitative profiling of PTM stoichiometry by resolvable mass tags. 	Quantitative profiling of STOichiometry by Resolvable Mass tags	PTM, stoichiometry	Post-translational modifications (PTMs) play important roles in modulating the biological functions of proteins. Stoichiometry, which quantifies the modification percentage, is a critical factor for any given PTM. In this work, we developed a chemoproteomic strategy called "STO-MS" to systematically quantify the PTM stoichiometry in complex biological samples. This strategy employs a resolvable mass tag to differentiate proteoforms with different numbers of modifications and utilizes liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) techniques to measure PTM stoichiometry at the proteomic level. As a proof-of-concept, we successfully determined the stoichiometry of 197 proteins modified by 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), a well-characterized lipid-derived electrophile and biomarker for oxidative stress. Our work expands the toolbox for quantification of PTM stoichiometry and sheds light on understanding the biological significance of PTMs in oxidative stress.
PXD035954	36350779	Design and Evaluation of a Cyclobutane Diazirine Alkyne Tag for Photoaffinity Labeling in Cells. 	Design and evaluation of a cyclobutane diazirine alkyne tag for photoaffinity labeling in cells	binding site mapping, cereblon, diazirine, photoaffinity labeling, thalidomide	Alkyl diazirines are frequently used in photoaffinity labeling to map small molecule-protein interactions in target identification studies. However, the alkyl diazirines can preferentially label acidic amino acids and acidic protein surfaces in a pH-dependent manner, presumably via a reactive alkyl diazo intermediate. Here, we explore the use of ring strain to alter these reactivity preferences and report the development of a cyclobutane diazirine photoaffinity tag with reduced pH-dependent reactivity, termed PALBOX. We show that PALBOX possesses differential reactivity profiles as compared to other diazirine tags in vitro and is readily incorporated into small molecules to profile their binding interactions in cells. Using a set of small molecule fragments and ligands, we show that photoaffinity probes equipped with PALBOX can label the known protein targets in cells with reduced labeling of known alkyl diazirine off-targets. Finally, we demonstrate that ligands equipped with PALBOX can accurately map small molecule-protein binding sites. Thus, PALBOX is a versatile diazirine-based photoaffinity tag for use in the development of chemical probes for photoaffinity labeling experiments, including the study of small molecule-protein interactions.
PXD034983	36350833	Ydj1 interaction at nucleotide-binding-domain of yeast Ssa1 impacts Hsp90 collaboration and client maturation. 	Dynamic interplay between Ydj1 and Hsp90 for interaction with nucleotide binding domain of Hsp70 regulates client maturation	12), AML, Hsp40, Hsp70, Hsp90, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, client protein, oncogene, t(7	Hsp90 constitutes one of the major chaperone machinery in the cell. The Hsp70 assists Hsp90 in its client maturation though the underlying basis of the Hsp70 role remains to be explored. In the present study, using S. cerevisiae strain expressing Ssa1 as sole Ssa Hsp70, we identified novel mutations in the nucleotide-binding domain of yeast Ssa1 Hsp70 (Ssa1-T175N and Ssa1-D158N) that adversely affect the maturation of Hsp90 clients v-Src and Ste11. The identified Ssa1 amino acids critical for Hsp90 function were also found to be conserved across species such as in E.coli DnaK and the constitutive Hsp70 isoform (HspA8) in humans. These mutations are distal to the C-terminus of Hsp70, that primarily mediates Hsp90 interaction through the bridge protein Sti1, and proximal to Ydj1 (Hsp40 co-chaperone of Hsp70 family) binding region. Intriguingly, we found that the bridge protein Sti1 is critical for cellular viability in cells expressing Ssa1-T175N (A1-T175N) or Ssa1-D158N (A1-D158N) as sole Ssa Hsp70. The growth defect was specific for sti1Delta, as deletion of none of the other Hsp90 co-chaperones showed lethality in A1-T175N or A1-D158N. Mass-spectrometry based whole proteome analysis of A1-T175N cells lacking Sti1 showed an altered abundance of various kinases and transcription factors suggesting compromised Hsp90 activity. Further proteomic analysis showed that pathways involved in signaling, signal transduction, and protein phosphorylation are markedly downregulated in the A1-T175N upon repressing Sti1 expression using doxycycline regulatable promoter. In contrast to Ssa1, the homologous mutations in Ssa4 (Ssa4-T175N/D158N), the stress inducible Hsp70 isoform, supported cell growth even in the absence of Sti1. Overall, our data suggest that Ydj1 competes with Hsp90 for binding to Hsp70, and thus regulates Hsp90 interaction with the nucleotide-binding domain of Hsp70. The study thus provides new insight into the Hsp70-mediated regulation of Hsp90 and broadens our understanding of the intricate complexities of the Hsp70-Hsp90 network.
PXD037574	36351196	TMT-Based Comparative Peptidomics Analysis of Rice Seedlings under Salt Stress: An Accessible Method to Explore Plant Stress-Tolerance Processing. 	TMT-based Comparative Peptidomic Analysis of Rice Seedlings under Salt Stress	Rice seedlings, comparative peptidomics, nano LC-MS/MS, salt stress	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is an important staple crop, particularly in Asia, and abiotic stress conditions easily reduce its yields. Salt stress is one of the critical factors affecting rice growth and yield. In this study, a tandem mass tag (TMT)-based comparative peptidomics analysis of rice seedlings under salt stress was conducted. Rice seedlings were exposed to 50 and 150 mM NaCl for 24 and 72 h, respectively, and the root and shoot tissues of different treatment groups were collected separately for peptidomics analysis. A total of 911 and 1263 nonredundant peptides were identified in two pooled shoot tissue samples, while there were 770 and 672 nonredundant peptides in two pooled root tissue samples, respectively. Compared with the control groups, dozens to hundreds of differentially expressed peptides (DEPs) were characterized in all treatment groups. To explore the potential functions of these DEPs, we analyzed the basic characteristics of DEPs and further analyzed the annotated Gene Ontology terms according to their precursor proteins. Several DEP precursor proteins were closely related to the response to salt stress, and some were derived from the functional domains of their corresponding precursors. The germination rate and cotyledon greening rate of transgenic Arabidopsis expressing two DEPs, OsSTPE2 and OsSTPE3, were significantly enhanced under salt stress. The described workflow enables the discovery of a functional pipeline for the characterization of the plant peptidome and reveals two new plant peptides that confer salinity tolerance to plants. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD037574.
PXD037729	36351913	Cryo-EM reveals the architecture of the PELP1-WDR18 molecular scaffold. 	Chemical crosslinking and mass spectrometry of the human Rix1 complex	BS3, LC-MS, PELP1, Protein Prospector, Q-Exactive, Rix1, crosslinking	PELP1 (Proline-, Glutamic acid-, Leucine-rich protein 1) is a large scaffolding protein that functions in many cellular pathways including steroid receptor (SR) coactivation, heterochromatin maintenance, and ribosome biogenesis. PELP1 is a proto-oncogene whose expression is upregulated in many human cancers, but how the PELP1 scaffold coordinates its diverse cellular functions is poorly understood. Here we show that PELP1 serves as the central scaffold for the human Rix1 complex whose members include WDR18, TEX10, and SENP3. We reconstitute the mammalian Rix1 complex and identified a stable sub-complex comprised of the conserved PELP1 Rix1 domain and WDR18. We determine a 2.7 Aa cryo-EM structure of the subcomplex revealing an interconnected tetrameric assembly and the architecture of PELP1's signaling motifs, including eleven LxxLL motifs previously implicated in SR signaling and coactivation of Estrogen Receptor alpha (ERalpha) mediated transcription. However, the structure shows that none of these motifs is in a conformation that would support SR binding. Together this work establishes that PELP1 scaffolds the Rix1 complex, and association with WDR18 may direct PELP1's activity away from SR coactivation.
PXD026931	36351970	Maternal plasma proteome profiling of biomarkers and pathogenic mechanisms of early-onset and late-onset preeclampsia. 	Maternal plasma proteome profiling of biomarkers for stratification of early-onset and late-onset preeclampsia	Plasma, biomarkers, preeclampsia	Preeclampsia is still the leading cause of morbidity and mortality in pregnancy without a cure. There are two phenotypes of preeclampsia, early-onset (EOPE) and late-onset (LOPE) with poorly defined pathogenic differences. This study aimed to facilitate better understanding of the mechanisms of pathophysiology of EOPE and LOPE, and identify specific biomarkers or therapeutic targets. In this study, we conducted an untargeted, label-free quantitative proteomic analyses of plasma samples from pregnant women with EOPE (n = 17) and LOPE (n = 11), and age, BMI-matched normotensive controls (n = 18). Targeted proteomics approach was also employed to validate a subset of proteins (n = 17). In total, there were 26 and 20 differentially abundant proteins between EOPE or LOPE, and normotensive controls, respectively. A series of angiogenic and inflammatory proteins, including insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 4 (IGFBP4; EOPE: FDR = 0.0030 and LOPE: FDR = 0.00396) and inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H2-4 (ITIH2-4), were significantly altered in abundance in both phenotypes. Through validation we confirmed that ITIH2 was perturbed only in LOPE (p = 0.005) whereas ITIH3 and ITIH4 were perturbed in both phenotypes (p < 0.05). Overall, lipid metabolism/transport proteins associated with atherosclerosis were highly abundant in LOPE, however, ECM proteins had a more pronounced role in EOPE. The complement cascade and binding and uptake of ligands by scavenger receptors, pathways, were associated with both EOPE and LOPE.
PXD035155	36353459	Proteomics unveil a central role for peroxisomes in butyrate assimilation of the heterotrophic Chlorophyte alga Polytomella sp. 	Proteomics unveil a central role for peroxisomes in butyrate assimilation in the heterotrophic Chlorophyte alga Polytomella sp.	heterotrophy, microalgae, quantitative proteomics, volatile fatty acids	Volatile fatty acids found in effluents of the dark fermentation of biowastes can be used for mixotrophic growth of microalgae, improving productivity and reducing the cost of the feedstock. Microalgae can use the acetate in the effluents very well, but butyrate is poorly assimilated and can inhibit growth above 1 gC.L(-1). The non-photosynthetic chlorophyte alga Polytomella sp. SAG 198.80 was found to be able to assimilate butyrate fast. To decipher the metabolic pathways implicated in butyrate assimilation, quantitative proteomics study was developed comparing Polytomella sp. cells grown on acetate and butyrate at 1 gC.L(-1). After statistical analysis, a total of 1772 proteins were retained, of which 119 proteins were found to be overaccumulated on butyrate vs. only 46 on acetate, indicating that butyrate assimilation necessitates additional metabolic steps. The data show that butyrate assimilation occurs in the peroxisome via the beta-oxidation pathway to produce acetyl-CoA and further tri/dicarboxylic acids in the glyoxylate cycle. Concomitantly, reactive oxygen species defense enzymes as well as the branched amino acid degradation pathway were strongly induced. Although no clear dedicated butyrate transport mechanism could be inferred, several membrane transporters induced on butyrate are identified as potential condidates. Metabolic responses correspond globally to the increased needs for central cofactors NAD, ATP and CoA, especially in the peroxisome and the cytosol.
PXD037049	36354106	Biochemically validated structural model of the 15-subunit intraflagellar transport complex IFT-B. 	Biochemically validated structural model of the 15-subunit intraflagellar transport complex IFT-B	Cilia, Cross-linking, Intraflagellar Transport, Protein structure	Cilia are ubiquitous eukaryotic organelles impotant for cellular motility, signaling, and sensory reception. Cilium formation requires intraflagellar transport of structural and signaling components and involves 22 different proteins organized into intraflagellar transport (IFT) complexes IFT-A and IFT-B that are transported by molecular motors. The IFT-B complex constitutes the backbone of polymeric IFT trains carrying cargo between the cilium and the cell body. Currently, high-resolution structures are only available for smaller IFT-B subcomplexes leaving > 50% structurally uncharacterized. Here, we used Alphafold to structurally model the 15-subunit IFT-B complex. The model was validated using cross-linking/mass-spectrometry data on reconstituted IFT-B complexes, X-ray scattering in solution, diffraction from crystals as well as site-directed mutagenesis and protein-binding assays. The IFT-B structure reveals an elongated and highly flexible complex consistent with cryo-electron tomographic reconstructions of IFT trains. The IFT-B complex organizes into IFT-B1 and IFT-B2 parts with binding sites for ciliary cargo and the inactive IFT dynein motor, respectively. Interestingly, our results are consistent with two different binding sites for IFT81/74 on IFT88/70/52/46 suggesting the possibility of different structural architectures for the IFT-B1 complex. Our data present a structural framework to understand IFT-B complex assembly, function, and ciliopathy variants.
PXD032796	36354735	The MASTL/PP2A cell cycle kinase-phosphatase module restrains PI3K-Akt activity in an mTORC1-dependent manner. 	A cell cycle kinase-phosphatase module restrains PI3K- Akt activity in an mTORC1-dependent manner	MASTL, phosphosites	The AKT-mTOR pathway is a central regulator of cell growth and metabolism. Upon sustained mTOR activity, AKT activity is attenuated by a feedback loop that restrains upstream signaling. However, how cells control the signals that limit AKT activity is not fully understood. Here, we show that MASTL/Greatwall, a cell cycle kinase that supports mitosis by phosphorylating the PP2A/B55 inhibitors ENSA/ARPP19, inhibits PI3K-AKT activity by sustaining mTORC1- and S6K1-dependent phosphorylation of IRS1 and GRB10. Genetic depletion of MASTL results in an inefficient feedback loop and AKT hyperactivity. These defects are rescued by the expression of phosphomimetic ENSA/ARPP19 or inhibition of PP2A/B55 phosphatases. MASTL is directly phosphorylated by mTORC1, thereby limiting the PP2A/B55-dependent dephosphorylation of IRS1 and GRB10 downstream of mTORC1. Downregulation of MASTL results in increased glucose uptake in vitro and increased glucose tolerance in adult mice, suggesting the relevance of the MASTL-PP2A/B55 kinase-phosphatase module in controlling AKT and maintaining metabolic homeostasis.
PXD036783	36355445	Reversed-Phase Liquid Chromatography of Peptides for Bottom-Up Proteomics: A Tutorial. 	Reversed-phase liquid chromatography of peptides for bottom-up proteomics: A tutorial	bottom-up proteomics, method development, peptide properties, peptide separation, protein separation, reversed-phase liquid chromatography, tutorial	The performance of the current bottom-up liquid chromatography hyphenated with mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analyses has undoubtedly been fueled by spectacular progress in mass spectrometry. It is thus not surprising that the MS instrument attracts the most attention during LC-MS method development, whereas optimizing conditions for peptide separation using reversed-phase liquid chromatography (RPLC) remains somewhat in its shadow. Consequently, the wisdom of the fundaments of chromatography is slowly vanishing from some laboratories. However, the full potential of advanced MS instruments cannot be achieved without highly efficient RPLC. This is impossible to attain without understanding fundamental processes in the chromatographic system and the properties of peptides important for their chromatographic behavior. We wrote this tutorial intending to give practitioners an overview of critical aspects of peptide separation using RPLC to facilitate setting the LC parameters so that they can leverage the full capabilities of their MS instruments. After briefly introducing the gradient separation of peptides, we discuss their properties that affect the quality of LC-MS chromatograms the most. Next, we address the in-column and extra-column broadening. The last section is devoted to key parameters of LC-MS methods. We also extracted trends in practice from recent bottom-up proteomics studies and correlated them with the current knowledge on peptide RPLC separation.
PXD031190	36355975	The Middle Eastern Cousin: Comparative Venomics of Daboia palaestinae and Daboia russelii. 	The Arabian cousin: Comparative venomics of Daboia palaestinae and Daboia russelii	Daboia palaestinae, Daboia russelii, preclinical assessment, transcriptomics, venomics	Among the medically most important snakes in the world, the species belonging to the genus Daboia have been attributed to the highest number of human envenomings, deaths and disabilities. Given their significant clinical relevance, the venoms of Russell's vipers (D. russelii and D. siamensis) have been the primary focus of research. In contrast, the composition, activity, ecology and evolution of venom of its congener, the Palestine viper (D. palaestinae), have remained largely understudied. Therefore, to unravel the factors responsible for the enhanced medical relevance of D. russelii in comparison to D. palaestinae, we comparatively evaluated their venom proteomes, biochemical activities, and mortality and morbidity inflicting potentials. Furthermore, the synthesis and regulation of venom in snakes have also remained underinvestigated, and the relative contribution of each venom gland remains unclear. We address this knowledge gap by sequencing the tissue transcriptomes of both venom glands of D. palaestinae, and comparatively evaluating their contribution to the secreted venom concoction. Our findings highlight the disparity in the venom composition, function and toxicities of the two Daboia species. We also show that toxin production is not partitioned between the two venom glands of D. palaestinae.
PXD037297	36356585	Chemoproteomic profiling to identify activity changes and functional inhibitors of DNA-binding proteins. 	Chemoproteomic profiling to identify activity changes and functional inhibitors of DNA-binding proteins	Chemical proteomics, DNA binding, covalency, drug screening, pull-down, reactive side chain profiling	DNA-binding proteins are promising therapeutic targets but are notoriously difficult to drug. Here, we evaluate a chemoproteomic DNA interaction platform as a complementary strategy for parallelized compound profiling. To enable this approach, we determined the proteomic binding landscape of 92 immobilized DNA sequences. Perturbation-induced activity changes of captured transcription factors in disease-relevant settings demonstrated functional relevance of the enriched subproteome. Chemoproteomic profiling of >300 cysteine-directed compounds against a coverage optimized bead mixture, which specifically captures >150 DNA binders, revealed competition of several DNA-binding proteins, including the transcription factors ELF1 and ELF2. We also discovered the first compound that displaces the DNA-repair complex MSH2-MSH3 from DNA. Compound binding to cysteine 252 on MSH3 was confirmed using chemoproteomic reactive cysteine profiling. Overall, these results suggested that chemoproteomic DNA bead pull-downs enable the specific readout of transcription factor activity and can identify functional "hotspots" on DNA binders toward expanding the druggable proteome.
PXD036113	36356940	Proximity Labeling Facilitates Defining the Proteome Neighborhood of Photosystem II Oxygen Evolution Complex in a Model Cyanobacterium. 	Proximity labeling facilitates defining neighborhood proteome of photosystem II oxygen evolution complex in a model cyanobacterium	APEX, Cyanobacteria, Proximity labeling, Synechocystis	Ascorbate peroxidase (APEX)-based proximity labeling coupled with mass spectrometry has a great potential for spatiotemporal identification of proteins proximal to a protein complex of interest. Using this approach is feasible to define the proteome neighborhood of important protein complexes in a popular photosynthetic model cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 (hereafter named as Synechocystis). To this end, we developed a robust workflow for APEX2-based proximity labeling in Synechocystis and used the workflow to identify proteins proximal to the photosystem II (PS II) oxygen evolution complex (OEC) through fusion APEX2 with a luminal OEC subunit, PsbO. In total, 38 integral membrane proteins (IMPs) and 93 luminal proteins were identified as proximal to the OEC. A significant portion of these proteins are involved in PS II assembly, maturation, and repair, while the majority of the rest were not previously implicated with PS II. The IMPs include subunits of PS II and cytochrome b6/f, but not of photosystem I (except for PsaL) and ATP synthases, suggesting that the latter two complexes are spatially separated from the OEC with a distance longer than the APEX2 labeling radius. Besides, the topologies of six IMPs were successfully predicted because their lumen-facing regions exclusively contain potential APEX2 labeling sites. The luminal proteins include 66 proteins with a predicted signal peptide and 57 proteins localized also in periplasm, providing important targets to study the regulation and selectivity of protein translocation. Together, we not only developed a robust workflow for the application of APEX2-based proximity labeling in Synechocystis and showcased the feasibility to define the neighborhood proteome of an important protein complex with a short radius but also discovered a set of the proteins that potentially interact with and regulate PS II structure and function.
PXD037448	36357385	Biochemical and structural basis for differential inhibitor sensitivity of EGFR with distinct exon 19 mutations. 	The strutural dynamics of EGFR Exon 19 mutants	EGFR, Exon19, HDX-MS	Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are used to treat non-small cell lung cancers (NSCLC) driven by epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations in the tyrosine kinase domain (TKD). TKI responses vary across tumors driven by the heterogeneous group of exon 19 deletions and mutations, but the molecular basis for these differences is not understood. Using purified TKDs, we compared kinetic properties of several exon 19 variants. Although unaltered for the second generation TKI afatinib, sensitivity varied significantly for both the first and third generation TKIs erlotinib and osimertinib. The most sensitive variants showed reduced ATP-binding affinity, whereas those associated with primary resistance retained wild type ATP-binding characteristics (and low KM, ATP). Through crystallographic and hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) studies, we identify possible origins for the altered ATP-binding affinity underlying TKI sensitivity and resistance, and propose a basis for classifying uncommon exon 19 variants that may have predictive clinical value.
PXD037309	36357400	The deubiquitinase OTUD1 regulates immunoglobulin production and proteasome inhibitor sensitivity in multiple myeloma. 	The deubiquitinase OTUD1 regulates immunoglobulin production and proteasome inhibitor sensitivity in multiple myeloma	Multiple myeloma, deubiquitinase OTUD1	Serum monoclonal immunoglobulin (Ig) is the main diagnostic factor for patients with multiple myeloma (MM), however its prognostic potential remains unclear. On a large MM patient cohort (n = 4146), we observe no correlation between serum Ig levels and patient survival, while amount of intracellular Ig has a strong predictive effect. Focused CRISPR screen, transcriptional and proteomic analysis identify deubiquitinase OTUD1 as a critical mediator of Ig synthesis, proteasome inhibitor sensitivity and tumor burden in MM. Mechanistically, OTUD1 deubiquitinates peroxiredoxin 4 (PRDX4), protecting it from endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated degradation. In turn, PRDX4 facilitates Ig production which coincides with the accumulation of unfolded proteins and higher ER stress. The elevated load on proteasome ultimately potentiates myeloma response to proteasome inhibitors providing a window for a rational therapy. Collectively, our findings support the significance of the Ig production machinery as a biomarker and target in the combinatory treatment of MM patients.
PXD037003	36357506	R1441C and G2019S LRRK2 knockin mice have distinct striatal molecular, physiological, and behavioral alterations. 	Proteome of R1441C and G2019S LRRK2 knock in mice after striatal motor learning task	brain, striatum	LRRK2 mutations are closely associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). Convergent evidence suggests that LRRK2 regulates striatal function. Here, by using knock-in mouse lines expressing the two most common LRRK2 pathogenic mutations-G2019S and R1441C-we investigated how LRRK2 mutations altered striatal physiology. While we found that both R1441C and G2019S mice displayed reduced nigrostriatal dopamine release, hypoexcitability in indirect-pathway striatal projection neurons, and alterations associated with an impaired striatal-dependent motor learning were observed only in the R1441C mice. We also showed that increased synaptic PKA activities in the R1441C and not G2019S mice underlie the specific alterations in motor learning deficits in the R1441C mice. In summary, our data argue that LRRK2 mutations' impact on the striatum cannot be simply generalized. Instead, alterations in electrochemical, electrophysiological, molecular, and behavioral levels were distinct between LRRK2 mutations. Our findings offer mechanistic insights for devising and optimizing treatment strategies for PD patients.
PXD034276	36357940	Phosphoproteomics revealed cellular signals immediately responding to disruption of cancer amino acid homeostasis induced by inhibition of L-type amino acid transporter 1. 	Inhibition of L-type amino acid transporter 1 induces disruption of cancer amino acid homeostasis with altered cellular signals	IMAC, JPH203, LAT1	BACKGROUND: Cancer-upregulated L-type amino acid transporter 1 (LAT1; SLC7A5) supplies essential amino acids to cancer cells. LAT1 substrates are not only needed for cancer rapid growth, but involved in cellular signaling. LAT1 has been proposed as a potential target for cancer treatment-its inhibitor, JPH203, is currently in clinical trials and targets biliary tract cancer (BTC). Here, we revealed to what extent LAT1 inhibitor affects intracellular amino acid content and what kind of cellular signals are directly triggered by LAT1 inhibition. METHODS: Liquid chromatography assay combined with o-phthalaldehyde- and 9-fluorenyl-methylchloroformate-based derivatization revealed changes in intracellular amino acid levels induced by LAT1 inhibition with JPH203 treatment in three BTC cell lines. Tandem mass tag-based quantitative phosphoproteomics characterized the effect of JPH203 treatment on BTC cells, and suggested key regulators in LAT1-inhibited cells. We further studied one of the key regulators, CK2 protein kinase, by using Western blot, enzymatic activity assay, and co-immunoprecipitation. We evaluated anticancer effects of combination of JPH203 with CK2 inhibitor using cell growth and would healing assay. RESULTS: JPH203 treatment decreased intracellular levels of LAT1 substrates including essential amino acids of three BTC cell lines, immediately and drastically. We also found levels of some of these amino acids were partially recovered after longer-time treatment. Therefore, we performed phosphoproteomics with short-time JPH203 treatment prior to the cellular compensatory response, and revealed hundreds of differentially phosphorylated sites. Commonly downregulated phosphorylation sites were found on proteins involved in the cell cycle and RNA splicing. Our phosphoproteomics also suggested key regulators immediately responding to LAT1 inhibition. Focusing on one of these regulators, protein kinase CK2, we revealed LAT1 inhibition decreased phosphorylation of CK2 substrate without changing CK2 enzymatic activity. Furthermore, LAT1 inhibition abolished interaction between CK2 and its regulatory protein NOLC1, which suggests regulatory mechanism of CK2 substrate protein specificity controlled by LAT1 inhibition. Moreover, we revealed that the combination of JPH203 with CK2 inhibitor resulted in the enhanced inhibition of proliferation and migration of BTC cells. CONCLUSION: This study provides new perspectives on LAT1-dependent cellular processes and a rationale for therapeutics targeting reprogrammed cancer metabolism.
PXD033841	36358924	Comparative Transcriptomics and Proteomics of Cancer Cell Lines Cultivated by Physiological and Commercial Media. 	Comparative Transcriptomics and Proteomics of Cancer Cell Lines Cultivated by Physiological and Commercial Media	Cancer cell line, Culture media, Differential expression analysis, Transcriptomics	Aiming to reduce the gap between in vitro and in vivo environment, a complex culture medium, Plasmax, was introduced recently, which includes nutrients and metabolites with concentrations normally found in human plasma. Herein, to study the influence of this medium on cellular behaviors, we utilized Plasmax to cultivate two cancer cell lines, including one breast cancer cell line, MDA-MB-231BR, and one brain cancer cell line, CRL-1620. Cancer cells were harvested and prepared for transcriptomics and proteomics analyses to assess the discrepancies caused by the different nutritional environments of Plasmax and two commercial media: DMEM, and EMEM. Total RNAs of cells were extracted using mammalian total RNA extract kits and analyzed by next-generation RNA sequencing; proteomics analyses were performed using LC-MS/MS. Gene oncology and pathway analysis were employed to study the affected functions. The cellular invasion and cell death were inhibited in MDA-MB-231BR cell line when cultured in Plasmax compared to DMEM and EMEM, whereas the invasion, migration and protein synthesis of CRL-1620 cell line were activated in Plasmax in relative to both commercial media. The expression changes of some proteins were more significant compared to their corresponding transcripts, indicating that Plasmax has more influence upon regulatory processes of proteins after translation. This work provides complementary information to the original study of Plasmax, aiming to facilitate the selection of appropriate media for in vitro cancer cell studies.
PXD036704	36359007	LC-MS/MS Isomeric Profiling of N-Glycans Derived from Low-Abundant Serum Glycoproteins in Mild Cognitive Impairment Patients. 	LC-MS/MS Isomeric Profiling of N-Glycans derived from Low-Abundant Serum Glycoproteins in Mild Cognitive Im-pairment Patients	Isomeric N-glycans, MCI, Neurological disorder, biomarker glycan	Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is an early stage of memory loss that affects cognitive abilities, such as language or virtual/spatial comprehension. This cognitive decline is mostly observed with the aging of individuals. Recently, MCI has been considered as a prodromal phase of Alzheimer's disease (AD), with a 10-15% conversion rate. However, the existing diagnostic methods fail to provide precise and well-timed diagnoses, and the pathophysiology of MCI is not fully understood. Alterations of serum N-glycan expression could represent essential contributors to the overall pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases and be used as a potential marker to assess MCI diagnosis using non-invasive procedures. Herein, we undertook an LC-MS/MS glycomics approach to determine and characterize potential N-glycan markers in depleted blood serum samples from MCI patients. For the first time, we profiled the isomeric glycome of the low abundant serum glycoproteins extracted from serum samples of control and MCI patients using an LC-MS/MS analytical strategy. Additionally, the MRM validation of the identified data showed five isomeric N-glycans with the ability to discriminate between healthy and MCI patients: the sialylated N-glycans GlcNAc5,Hex6,Neu5Ac3 and GlcNAc6,Hex7,Neu5Ac4 with single AUCs of 0.92 and 0.87, respectively, and a combined AUC of 0.96; and the sialylated-fucosylated N-glycans GlcNAc4,Hex5,Fuc,Neu5Ac, GlcNAc5,Hex6,Fuc,Neu5Ac2, and GlcNAc6,Hex7,Fuc,Neu5Ac3 with single AUCs of 0.94, 0.67, and 0.88, respectively, and a combined AUC of 0.98. According to the ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) and in line with recent publications, the identified N-glycans may play an important role in neuroinflammation. It is a process that plays a fundamental role in neuroinflammation, an important process in the progression of neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD034855	36359746	A Study on MDA5 Signaling in Splenic B Cells from an Imiquimod-Induced Lupus Mouse Model with Proteomics. 	MDA5 signaling in splenic B cells from imiquimod-induced lupus mouse model with proteomics study	B cell, Imiquimod (IMQ), MDA5, lupus, mouse model	INTRODUCTION: Several environmental stimuli may influence lupus, particularly viral infections. In this study, we used an imiquimod-induced lupus mouse model focused on the TLR7 pathway and proteomics analysis to determine the specific pathway related to viral infection and the related protein expressions in splenic B cells to obtain insight into B-cell responses to viral infection in the lupus model. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We treated FVB/N wild-type mice with imiquimod for 8 weeks to induce lupus symptoms and signs, retrieved splenocytes, selected B cells, and conducted the proteomic analysis. The B cells were co-cultured with CD40L+ feeder cells for another week before performing Western blot analysis. Panther pathway analysis was used to disclose the pathways activated and the protein-protein interactome was analyzed by the STRING database in this lupus murine model. RESULTS: The lupus model was well established and well demonstrated with serology evidence and pathology proof of lupus-mimicking organ damage. Proteomics data of splenic B cells revealed that the most important activated pathways (fold enrichment > 100) demonstrated positive regulation of the MDA5 signaling pathway, negative regulation of IP-10 production, negative regulation of chemokine (C-X-C motif) ligand 2 production, and positive regulation of the RIG-I signaling pathway. A unique protein-protein interactome containing 10 genes was discovered, within which ISG15, IFIH1, IFIT1, DDX60, and DHX58 were demonstrated to be downstream effectors of MDA5 signaling. Finally, we found B-cell intracellular cytosolic proteins via Western blot experiment and continued to observe MDA5-related pathway activation. CONCLUSION: In this experiment, we confirmed that the B cells in the lupus murine model focusing on the TLR7 pathway were activated through the MDA5 signaling pathway, an important RNA sensor implicated in the detection of viral infections and autoimmunity. The MDA5 agonist/antagonist RNAs and the detailed molecular interactions within B cells are worthy of further investigation for lupus therapy.
PXD023302	36361712	Dual Oxidase 2 (DUOX2) as a Proteomic Biomarker for Predicting Treatment Response to Chemoradiation Therapy for Locally Advanced Rectal Cancer: Using High-Throughput Proteomic Analysis and Machine Learning Algorithm. 	High-throughput proteomic analysis of rectal cancer for prediction of non-complete response after concurrent chemoradiation therapy	FFPE, LFQ, rectal cancer	High-throughput mass-spectrometry-based quantitative proteomic analysis was performed using formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) biopsy samples obtained before treatment from 13 patients with locally advanced rectal cancer (LARC), who were treated with concurrent chemoradiation therapy (CCRT) followed by surgery. Patients were divided into complete responder (CR) and non-complete responder (nCR) groups. Immunohistochemical (IHC) staining of 79 independent FFPE tissue samples was performed to validate the predictive ability of proteomic biomarker candidates. A total of 3637 proteins were identified, and the expression of 498 proteins was confirmed at significantly different levels (differentially expressed proteins-DEPs) between two groups. In Gene Ontology enrichment analyses, DEPs enriched in biological processes in the CR group included proteins linked to cytoskeletal organization, immune response processes, and vesicle-associated protein transport processes, whereas DEPs in the nCR group were associated with biosynthesis, transcription, and translation processes. Dual oxidase 2 (DUOX2) was selected as the most predictive biomarker in machine learning algorithm analysis. Further IHC validation ultimately confirmed DUOX2 as a potential biomarker for predicting the response of nCR to CCRT. In conclusion, this study suggests that the treatment response to RT may be affected by the pre-treatment tumor microenvironment. DUOX2 is a potential biomarker for the early prediction of nCR after CCRT.
PXD037266	36361728	Proteomic Profiling of Extracellular Vesicles Released by Leptin-Treated Breast Cancer Cells: A Potential Role in Cancer Metabolism. 	Proteomic profile of extracellular vesicles released by breast cancer cells	breast cancer, exosomes	Tumor extracellular vesicles (EVs), as endocytic vesicles able to transport nucleic acids, proteins, and metabolites in recipient cells, have been recognized fundamental mediators of cell-to-cell communication in breast cancer. The biogenesis and release of EVs are highly regulated processes and both the quantity of EVs and their molecular cargo might reflect the metabolic state of the producing cells. We recently demonstrated that the adipokine leptin, whose circulating levels correlate with adipose tissue expansion, is an inducer of EV release from breast cancer cells. Here, we show a specific proteomic signature of EVs released by MCF-7 breast cancer cells grown in the presence of leptin (Lep-EVs), in attempt to find additional molecular effectors linking obesity to breast cancer biology. An analysis of the proteomic profile of Lep-EVs by LC-MS/MS revealed a significant enrichment in biological processes, molecular functions, and cellular components mainly related to mitochondrial machineries and activity, compared to protein content of EVs from untreated breast cancer cells. Metabolic investigations, carried out to assess the autocrine effects of these vesicles on breast cancer cells, revealed that Lep-EVs were able to increase ATP levels in breast cancer cells. This result is associated with increased mitochondrial respiration evaluated by Seahorse analyzer, supporting the concept that Lep-EVs can modulate MCF-7 breast cancer cell oxidative metabolism. Moreover, taking into account the relevance of tumor immune cell crosstalk in the tumor microenvironment (TME), we analyzed the impact of these vesicles on macrophage polarization, the most abundant immune component in the breast TME. We found that tumor-derived Lep-EVs sustain the polarization of M0 macrophages, derived from the human THP-1 monocytic cells, into M2-like tumor-associated macrophages, in terms of metabolic features, phagocytic activity, and increased expression of CD206-positive population. Overall, our results indicate that leptin by inducing the release of EV-enriched in mitochondrial proteins may control the metabolism of MCF-7 breast cancer cells as well as that of macrophages. Characterization of tumor-derived EV protein cargo in an obesity-associated milieu, such as in the presence of elevated leptin levels, might allow identifying unique features and specific metabolic mechanisms useful to develop novel therapeutic approaches for treatment of breast cancer, especially in obese patients.
PXD035005	36362028	Anti-Metastatic Effect of Pyruvate Dehydrogenase Kinase 4 Inhibition in Bladder Cancer via the ERK, SRC, and JNK Pathways. 	The anti-metastatic effect of pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 inhibition in bladder cancer via p-AKT, p-ERK, p-Src and p-JNK pathway	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), bladder cancer, phosphoproteomics	Bladder cancer is a common global cancer with a high percentage of metastases and high mortality rate. Thus, it is necessary to identify new biomarkers that can be helpful in diagnosis. Pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4 (PDK4) belongs to the PDK family and plays an important role in glucose utilization in living organisms. In the present study, we evaluated the role of PDK4 in bladder cancer and its related protein changes. First, we observed elevated PDK4 expression in high-grade bladder cancers. To screen for changes in PDK4-related proteins in bladder cancer, we performed a comparative proteomic analysis using PDK4 knockdown cells. In bladder cancer cell lines, PDK4 silencing resulted in a lower rate of cell migration and invasion. In addition, a PDK4 knockdown xenograft model showed reduced bladder cancer growth in nude mice. Based on our results, PDK4 plays a critical role in the metastasis and growth of bladder cancer cells through changes in ERK, SRC, and JNK.
PXD036383	36362053	Serum SELENBP1 and VCL Are Effective Biomarkers for Clinical and Forensic Diagnosis of Coronary Artery Spasm. 	Label-free serum proteome in the rabbit CAS provocation model	Coronary artery spasm, rabbit model, serum proteome	Coronary artery spasm (CAS) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of many ischemic heart entities; however, there are no established diagnostic biomarkers for CAS in clinical and forensic settings. This present study aimed to identify such serum biomarkers by establishing a rabbit CAS provocation model and integrating quantitative serum proteomics, parallel reaction monitoring/mass spectrometry-based targeted proteomics, and partial least-squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA). Our results suggested that SELENBP1 and VCL were potential candidate biomarkers for CAS. In independent clinical samples, SELENBP1 and VCL were validated to be significantly lower in serum but not blood cells from CAS patients, with the reasons for this possibly due to the decreased secretion from cardiomyocytes. The areas under the curve of the receiver operating characteristics (ROC) analysis were 0.9384 for SELENBP1 and 0.9180 for VCL when diagnosing CAS. The CAS risk decreased by 32.3% and 53.6% for every 10 unit increases in the serum SELENBP1 and VCL, respectively. In forensic samples, serum SELENBP1 alone diagnosed CAS-induced deaths at a sensitivity of 100.0% and specificity of 72.73%, and its combination with VCL yielded a diagnostic specificity of 100.0%, which was superior to the traditional biomarkers of cTnI and CK-MB. Therefore, serum SELENBP1 and VCL could be effective biomarkers for both the clinical and forensic diagnosis of CAS.
PXD036735	36362114	Extracellular Vesicles in Diffuse Large B Cell Lymphoma: Characterization and Diagnostic Potential. 	Plasma extracellular vesicle proteome identifies diffuse large B cell lymphoma patients	cancer, diagnostic, extracellular vesicles, liquid biopsy, plasma	Diffuse large B cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is an aggressive B cell lymphoma characterized by a heterogeneous behavior and in need of more accurate biological characterization monitoring and prognostic tools. Extracellular vesicles are secreted by all cell types and are currently established to some extent as representatives of the cell of origin. The present study characterized and evaluated the diagnostic and prognostic potential of plasma extracellular vesicles (EVs) proteome in DLBCL by using state-of-the-art mass spectrometry. The EV proteome is strongly affected by DLBCL status, with multiple proteins uniquely identified in the plasma of DLBCL. A proof-of-concept classifier resulted in highly accurate classification with a sensitivity and specificity of 1 when tested on the holdout test data set. On the other hand, no proteins were identified to correlate with non-germinal center B-cell like (non-GCB) or GCB subtypes to a significant degree after correction for multiple testing. However, functional analysis suggested that antigen binding is regulated when comparing non-GCB and GCB. Survival analysis based on protein quantitative values and clinical parameters identified multiple EV proteins as significantly correlated to survival. In conclusion, the plasma extracellular vesicle proteome identifies DLBCL cancer patients from healthy donors and contains potential EV protein markers for prediction of survival.
PXD022218	36362243	Proteomics of Aqueous Humor as a Source of Disease Biomarkers in Retinoblastoma. 	Proteomics of aqueous humor for biomarkers discovery in retinoblastoma	Retinoblastoma, biomarkers, humor aqueous, proteomic analysis	Aqueous humor (AH) can be easily and safely used to evaluate disease-specific biomarkers in ocular disease. The aim of this study was to identify specific proteins biomarkers in the AH of retinoblastoma (RB) patients at various stages of the disease. We analyzed the proteome of 53 AH samples using high-resolution mass spectrometry. We grouped the samples according to active vitreous seeding (Group 1), active aqueous seeding (Group 2), naive RB (group 3), inactive RB (group 4), and congenital cataracts as the control (Group 5). We found a total of 889 proteins in all samples. Comparative parametric analyses among the different groups revealed three additional proteins expressed in the RB groups that were not expressed in the control group. These were histone H2B type 2-E (HISTH2B2E), InaD-like protein (PATJ), and ubiquitin conjugating enzyme E2 V1 (UBE2V1). Upon processing the data of our study with the OpenTarget Tool software, we found that glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) and CD44 were more highly expressed in the RB groups. Our results provide a proteome database regarding AH related to RB disease that may be used as a source of biomarkers. Further prospective studies should validate our finding in a large cohort of RB patients.
PXD036691	36362273	The Effects of Silencing PTX3 on the Proteome of Human Endothelial Cells. 	The effects of silencing PTX3 oin the proteome of human endothelial cells	PTX3, endothelial cells, label-free mass spectrometry	The human long pentraxin PTX3 has complex regulatory roles at the crossroad of innate immunity, inflammation, and tissue repair. PTX3 can be produced by various cell types, including vascular endothelial cells (ECs), in response to pro-inflammatory cytokines or bacterial molecules. PTX3 has also been involved in the regulation of cardiovascular biology, even if ambiguous results have been so far provided in both preclinical and clinical research. In this study, we compared the proteomic profiles of human ECs (human umbilical vein ECs, HUVECs), focusing on differentially expressed proteins between the control and PTX3-silenced ECs. We identified 19 proteins that were more abundant in the proteome of control ECs and 23 proteins that were more expressed in PTX3-silenced cells. Among the latter, proteins with multifunctional roles in angiogenesis, oxidative stress, and inflammation were found, and were further validated by assessing their mRNAs with RT-qPCR. Nevertheless, the knock down of PTX3 did not affect in vitro angiogenesis. On the contrary, the lack of the protein induced an increase in pro-inflammatory markers and a shift to the more oxidative profile of PTX3-deficient ECs. Altogether, our results support the idea of a protective function for PTX3 in the control of endothelial homeostasis, and more generally, in cardiovascular biology.
PXD036800	36362368	Coronary Artery Disease and Aortic Valve Stenosis: A Urine Proteomics Study. 	Urinary proteome related to coronary artery disease and aortic stenosis	ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, aortic valve stenosis, coronary artery disease, molecular marker, urine	Coronary artery disease (CAD) and the frequently coexisting aortic valve stenosis (AVS) are heart diseases accounting for most cardiac surgeries. These share many risk factors, such as age, diabetes, hypertension, or obesity, and similar pathogenesis, including endothelial disruption, lipid and immune cell infiltration, inflammation, fibrosis, and calcification. Unsuspected CAD and AVS are sometimes detected opportunistically through echocardiography, coronary angiography, and magnetic resonance. Routine biomarkers for early detection of either of these atherosclerotic-rooted conditions would be important to anticipate the diagnosis. With a noninvasive collection, urine is appealing for biomarker assessment. We conducted a shotgun proteomics exploratory analysis of urine from 12 CAD and/or AVS patients and 11 controls to identify putative candidates to differentiate these diseases from healthy subjects. Among the top 20 most dysregulated proteins, TIMP1, MMP2 and vWF stood out, being at least 2.5x increased in patients with CAD/AVS and holding a central position in a network of protein-protein interactions. Moreover, their assessment in an independent cohort (19 CAD/AVS and 10 controls) evidenced strong correlations between urinary TIMP1 and vWF levels and a common cardiovascular risk factor - HDL (r = 0.59, p < 0.05, and r = 0.64, p < 0.01, respectively).
PXD035836	36363675	In-Depth Analysis of the Extracorporeal Proteome Adsorbed to Dialysis Membranes during Hemodialysis. 	Proteome of hemodialysis filter membranes	hemodialysis	Used hemodialysis membranes (HD-M) are a valuable reservoir of biological information. Proteins bind to HD-M, but whether this process depends on the type of membrane or patient factors or selectively affects specific protein classes has not been adequately elucidated. State-of-the-art proteomics techniques are capable of identifying and quantifying this therapy-specific subproteome to enable the analysis of disease- or membrane-induced pathophysiologies. We demonstrate the feasibility of the deep proteomic characterization of the extracorporeal proteome adsorbed to HD-M. A shotgun proteomics approach using nano-flow liquid chromatography coupled to mass-spectrometry identified 1648 unique proteins eluted by a chaotropic buffer from the HD-M of eight patients. In total, 995 proteins were present in all eluates; a more stringent approach showed that a core proteome of 310 proteins could be identified independently in all samples. Stability of the dialyzer proteome was demonstrated by a >90% re-identification rate on longitudinal samples of a single patient. The core proteome showed an overrepresentation of pathways of hemostasis and the immune system, and showed differences in membrane materials (polysulfone vs. helixone). This study demonstrates that optimized conditions combined with high-performance proteomics enable the in-depth exploration of the subproteome bound to HD-M, yielding a stable core proteome that can be exploited to study patient-specific factors and improve hemodialysis therapy.
PXD017090	36363802	Antibacterial Properties and Potential Mechanism of Serum from Chinese Alligator. 	Antibacterial properties and mechanism of action for serum obtained from the Chinese alligator (Alligator sinensis)	Alligator sinensis, Antibacterial, Complement system, Protein, Serum	The Chinese alligator (Alligator sinensis) is an ancient reptile with strong immunity that lives in wetland environments. This study tested the antibacterial ability of Chinese alligator serum (CAS) against Klebsiella pneumoniae, Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa and analyzed the potential underlying mechanisms. Results showed that the CAS had a marked antibacterial effect on K. pneumoniae, E. coli, and P. aeruginosa, while S. aureus was only mildly affected. However, these effects disappeared when Protease K was added to the serum. The serum proteome analysis revealed that the antibacterial ability of CAS was produced by interactions among various proteins and that the complement proteins played a major antibacterial role. Therefore, we made relevant predictions about the structure and function of complement component 3. In addition, sequence alignment and phylogenetic analysis of complement component 3d (C3d) in four mammalian species and two alligator species showed that the amino acids that make up the acid pocket on the concave surface of alligator C3d are not identical to those in mammals. This study provided evidence that CAS elicits significant antibacterial effects against some pathogens and provides the basis for further development of novel antibacterial drugs.
PXD034605	36365024	Identification of Novel Genes and Proteoforms in Angiostrongylus costaricensis through a Proteogenomic Approach. 	Identification of novel genes and proteoforms in Angiostrongylus costaricensis through a proteogenomic approach	RNA-Seq, genome annotation, ncRNAs, nematode	RNA sequencing (RNA-Seq) and mass-spectrometry-based proteomics data are often integrated in proteogenomic studies to assist in the prediction of eukaryote genome features, such as genes, splicing, single-nucleotide (SNVs), and single-amino-acid variants (SAAVs). Most genomes of parasite nematodes are draft versions that lack transcript- and protein-level information and whose gene annotations rely only on computational predictions. Angiostrongylus costaricensis is a roundworm species that causes an intestinal inflammatory disease, known as abdominal angiostrongyliasis (AA). Currently, there is no drug available that acts directly on this parasite, mostly due to the sparse understanding of its molecular characteristics. The available genome of A. costaricensis, specific to the Costa Rica strain, is a draft version that is not supported by transcript- or protein-level evidence. This study used RNA-Seq and MS/MS data to perform an in-depth annotation of the A. costaricensis genome. Our prediction improved the reference annotation with (a) novel coding and non-coding genes; (b) pieces of evidence of alternative splicing generating new proteoforms; and (c) a list of SNVs between the Brazilian (Crissiumal) and the Costa Rica strain. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first time that a multi-omics approach has been used to improve the genome annotation of A. costaricensis. We hope this improved genome annotation can assist in the future development of drugs, kits, and vaccines to treat, diagnose, and prevent AA caused by either the Brazil strain (Crissiumal) or the Costa Rica strain.
PXD037442	36366447	Comprehensive Analysis of Ubiquitome Changes in Nicotiana benthamiana after Rice Stripe Virus Infection. 	Ubiquitome change of Nicotiana benthamiana infected with rice stripe virus	Nicotiana benthamiana, rice stripe virus, ubiquitome	Rice stripe virus (RSV) is one of the most devastating viruses affecting rice production. During virus infection, ubiquitination plays an important role in the dynamic regulation of host defenses. We combined the ubiquitomics approach with the label-free quantitation proteomics approach to investigate potential ubiquitination status changes of Nicotiana benthamiana infected with RSV. Bioinformatics analyses were performed to elucidate potential associations between proteins with differentially ubiquitinated sites (DUSs) and various cellular components/pathways during virus infection. In total, 399 DUSs in 313 proteins were identified and quantified, among them 244 ubiquitinated lysine (Kub) sites in 186 proteins were up-regulated and 155 Kub sites in 127 proteins were down-regulated at 10 days after RSV infection. Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analyses indicated that proteins with up-regulated Kub sites were significantly enriched in the ribosome. Silencing of 3-isopropylmalate dehydratase large subunit through virus-induced gene silencing delayed RSV infection, while silencing of mRNA-decapping enzyme-like protein promoted RSV symptom in the late stage of infection. Moreover, ubiquitination was observed in all seven RSV-encoded proteins. Our study supplied the comprehensive analysis of the ubiquitination changes in N. benthamiana after RSV infection, which is helpful for understanding RSV pathogenesis and RSV-host interactions.
PXD036718	36366577	Proteomic Signatures of the Serological Response to Influenza Vaccination in a Large Human Cohort Study. 	Proteomic signatures of the serological response to flu vaccination in a large human cohort study	flu vaccination, human cohort, serum proteomics	The serological response to the influenza virus vaccine is highly heterogeneous for reasons that are not entirely clear. While the impact of demographic factors such as age, body mass index (BMI), sex, prior vaccination and titer levels are known to impact seroconversion, they only explain a fraction of the response. To identify signatures of the vaccine response, we analyzed 273 protein levels from 138 serum samples of influenza vaccine recipients (2019-2020 season). We found that levels of proteins functioning in cholesterol transport were positively associated with seroconversion, likely linking to the known impact of BMI. When adjusting seroconversion for the demographic factors, we identified additional, unexpected signatures: proteins regulating actin cytoskeleton dynamics were significantly elevated in participants with high adjusted seroconversion. Viral strain specific analysis showed that this trend was largely driven by the H3N2 strain. Further, we identified complex associations between adjusted seroconversion and other factors: levels of proteins of the complement system associated positively with adjusted seroconversion in younger participants, while they were associated negatively in the older population. We observed the opposite trends for proteins of high density lipoprotein remodeling, transcription, and hemostasis. In sum, careful integrative modeling can extract new signatures of seroconversion from highly variable data that suggest links between the humoral response as well as immune cell communication and migration.
PXD046499	36368990	Garvicin Q: characterization of biosynthesis and mode of action. 	Proteome of Corynebacterium glutamicum at different pH values	Corynebacterium glutamicum, pH	Bacteriocins are ribosomally synthesized antimicrobial peptides, that either kill target bacteria or inhibit their growth. Bacteriocins are used in food preservation and are of increasing interest as potential alternatives to conventional antibiotics. In the present study, we show that Lactococcus petauri B1726, a strain isolated from fermented balsam pear, produces a heat-stable and protease-sensitive compound. Following genome sequencing, a gene cluster for production of a class IId bacteriocin was identified consisting of garQ (encoding for the bacteriocin garvicin Q), garI (for a putative immunity protein), garC, and garD (putative transporter proteins). Growth conditions were optimized for increased bacteriocin activity in supernatants of L. petauri B1726 and purification and mass spectrometry identified the compound as garvicin Q. Further experiments suggest that garvicin Q adsorbs to biomass of various susceptible and insusceptible bacteria and support the hypothesis that garvicin Q requires a mannose-family phosphotransferase system (PTS(Man)) as receptor to kill target bacteria by disruption of membrane integrity. Heterologous expression of a synthetic garQICD operon was established in Corynebacterium glutamicum demonstrating that genes garQICD are responsible for biosynthesis and secretion of garvicin Q. Moreover, production of garvicin Q by the recombinant C. glutamicum strain was improved by using a defined medium yet product levels were still considerably lower than with the natural L. petauri B1726 producer strain.Collectively, our data identifies the genetic basis for production of the bacteriocin garvicin Q by L. petauri B1726 and provides insights into the receptor and mode of action of garvicin Q. Moreover, we successfully performed first attempts towards biotechnological production of this interesting bacteriocin using natural and heterologous hosts.
PXD034587	36369338	Functional and molecular dissection of HCMV long non-coding RNAs. 	Functional and molecular dissection of viral lncRNAs throughout HCMV life cycle	HCMV, RNA modification, lncRNA	Small, compact genomes confer a selective advantage to viruses, yet human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) expresses the long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs); RNA1.2, RNA2.7, RNA4.9, and RNA5.0. Little is known about the function of these lncRNAs in the virus life cycle. Here, we dissected the functional and molecular landscape of HCMV lncRNAs. We found that HCMV lncRNAs occupy ~ 30% and 50-60% of total and poly(A)+viral transcriptome, respectively, throughout virus life cycle. RNA1.2, RNA2.7, and RNA4.9, the three abundantly expressed lncRNAs, appear to be essential in all infection states. Among these three lncRNAs, depletion of RNA2.7 and RNA4.9 results in the greatest defect in maintaining latent reservoir and promoting lytic replication, respectively. Moreover, we delineated the global post-transcriptional nature of HCMV lncRNAs by nanopore direct RNA sequencing and interactome analysis. We revealed that the lncRNAs are modified with N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) and interact with m(6)A readers in all infection states. In-depth analysis demonstrated that m(6)A machineries stabilize HCMV lncRNAs, which could account for the overwhelming abundance of viral lncRNAs. Our study lays the groundwork for understanding the viral lncRNA-mediated regulation of host-virus interaction throughout the HCMV life cycle.
PXD030982	36370849	Src-mediated phosphorylation of the ribosome biogenesis factor hYVH1 affects its localization, promoting partitioning to the 60S ribosomal subunit. 	REGULATION OF THE RIBOSOME BIOGENESIS FACTOR HYVH1  BY SRC-MEDIATED PHOSPHORYLATION	HDMSe, HeLa cells, hYVH1, ribosome profiling	Yeast VH1-related phosphatase (YVH1) (also known as DUSP12) is a member of the atypical dual-specificity phosphatase subfamily. Although no direct substrate has been firmly established, human YVH1 (hYVH1) has been shown to protect cells from cellular stressors, regulate the cell cycle, disassemble stress granules, and act as a 60S ribosome biogenesis factor. Despite knowledge of hYVH1 function, further research is needed to uncover mechanisms of its regulation. In this study, we investigate cellular effects of a Src-mediated phosphorylation site at Tyr(179) on hYVH1. We observed that this phosphorylation event attenuates localization of hYVH1 to stress granules, enhances shuttling of hYVH1 to the nucleus, and promotes hYVH1 partitioning to the 60S ribosomal subunit. Quantitative proteomics reveal that Src coexpression with hYVH1 reduces formation of ribosomal species that represent stalled intermediates through the alteration of associating factors that mediate translational repression. Collectively, these results implicate hYVH1 as a novel Src substrate and provide the first demonstrated role of tyrosine phosphorylation regulating the activity of a YVH1 ortholog. Moreover, the ribosome proteome alterations point to a collaborative function of hYVH1 and Src in maintaining translational fitness.
PXD030970	36375840	SMA-linked SMN mutants prevent phase separation properties and SMN interactions with FMRP family members. 	Mass spectrometry-based proteomic comparison of BirA-SMN, BirA-SMN-Y109C and BirA proxisomes.	BioID, Spinal Muscle Atrophy (SMA), Survival Motor Neuron (SMN), nanoLC-MS/MS	Although recent advances in gene therapy provide hope for spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) patients, the pathology remains the leading genetic cause of infant mortality. SMA is a monogenic pathology that originates from the loss of the SMN1 gene in most cases or mutations in rare cases. Interestingly, several SMN1 mutations occur within the TUDOR methylarginine reader domain of SMN. We hypothesized that in SMN1 mutant cases, SMA may emerge from aberrant protein-protein interactions between SMN and key neuronal factors. Using a BioID proteomic approach, we have identified and validated a number of SMN-interacting proteins, including fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) family members (FMRFM). Importantly, SMA-linked SMNTUDOR mutant forms (SMNST) failed to interact with FMRFM In agreement with the recent work, we define biochemically that SMN forms droplets in vitro and these droplets are stabilized by RNA, suggesting that SMN could be involved in the formation of membraneless organelles, such as Cajal nuclear bodies. Finally, we found that SMN and FMRP co-fractionate with polysomes, in an RNA-dependent manner, suggesting a potential role in localized translation in motor neurons.
PXD037784	36376305	Dual roles and evolutionary implications of P26/poxin in antagonizing intracellular cGAS-STING and extracellular melanization immunity. 	The presence of HearNPV P26 in hemolymph from the virus-infected insect via liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry analysis	HearNPV P26, hemolymph, the virus-infected insect	P26, a homolog of the viral-encoded nuclease poxin that neutralizes the cGAS-STING innate immunity, is widely distributed in various invertebrate viruses, lepidopteran insects, and parasitoid wasps. P26/poxin from certain insect viruses also retains protease activity, though its biological role remains unknown. Given that many P26s contain a signal peptide, it is surmised that P26 may possess certain extracellular functions. Here, we report that a secretory baculoviral P26 suppresses melanization, a prominent insect innate immunity against pathogen invasion. P26 targets the cofactor of a prophenoloxidase-activating protease, and its inhibitory function is independent of nuclease activity. The analysis of P26/poxin homologs from different origins suggests that the ability to inhibit the extracellular melanization pathway is limited to P26s with a signal peptide and not shared by the homologs without it. These findings highlight the independent evolution of a single viral suppressor to perform dual roles in modulating immunity during virus-host adaptation.
PXD036290	36376306	Cytoskeletal components can turn wall-less spherical bacteria into kinking helices. 	Turning spherical cells into kinking helices in wall-less bacteria	Fibril, MreB, Mycoplasma capricolum, Spiroplasma citri, cytoskeleton, kinking helical cell	Bacterial cell shape is generally determined through an interplay between the peptidoglycan cell wall and cytoplasmic filaments made of polymerized MreB. Indeed, some bacteria (e.g., Mycoplasma) that lack both a cell wall and mreB genes consist of non-motile cells that are spherical or pleomorphic. However, other members of the same class Mollicutes (e.g., Spiroplasma, also lacking a cell wall) display a helical cell shape and kink-based motility, which is thought to rely on the presence of five MreB isoforms and a specific fibril protein. Here, we show that heterologous expression of Spiroplasma fibril and MreB proteins confers helical shape and kinking ability to Mycoplasma capricolum cells. Isoform MreB5 is sufficient to confer helicity and kink propagation to mycoplasma cells. Cryoelectron microscopy confirms the association of cytoplasmic MreB filaments with the plasma membrane, suggesting a direct effect on membrane curvature. However, in our experiments, the heterologous expression of MreBs and fibril did not result in efficient motility in culture broth, indicating that additional, unknown Spiroplasma components are required for swimming.
PXD017783	36376313	An extracellular receptor tyrosine kinase motif orchestrating intracellular STAT activation. 	An extracellular receptor tyrosine kinase motif orchestrating intracellular STAT activation	N-lectin, streptavidin pull down	The ErbB4 receptor isoforms JM-a and JM-b differ within their extracellular juxtamembrane (eJM) domains. Here, ErbB4 isoforms are used as a model to address the effect of structural variation in the eJM domain of receptor tyrosine kinases (RTK) on downstream signaling. A specific JM-a-like sequence motif is discovered, and its presence or absence (in JM-b-like RTKs) in the eJM domains of several RTKs is demonstrated to dictate selective STAT activation. STAT5a activation by RTKs including the JM-a like motif is shown to involve interaction with oligosaccharides of N-glycosylated cell surface proteins such as beta1 integrin, whereas STAT5b activation by JM-b is dependent on TYK2. ErbB4 JM-a- and JM-b-like RTKs are shown to associate with specific signaling complexes at different cell surface compartments using analyses of RTK interactomes and super-resolution imaging. These findings provide evidence for a conserved mechanism linking a ubiquitous extracellular motif in RTKs with selective intracellular STAT signaling.
PXD037546	36376335	Inhibiting ACK1-mediated phosphorylation of C-terminal Src kinase counteracts prostate cancer immune checkpoint blockade resistance. 	Inhibiting ACK1-mediated phosphorylation of C-terminal Src kinase counteracts prostate cancer immune checkpoint blockade resistance	ACK1, Immune Checkpoint Blockade, Phosphotyrosine, Prostate Cancer, SRC	Solid tumours are highly refractory to immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) therapies due to the functional impairment of effector T cells and their inefficient trafficking to tumours. T-cell activation is negatively regulated by C-terminal Src kinase (CSK); however, the exact mechanism remains unknown. Here we show that the conserved oncogenic tyrosine kinase Activated CDC42 kinase 1 (ACK1) is able to phosphorylate CSK at Tyrosine 18 (pY18), which enhances CSK function, constraining T-cell activation. Mice deficient in the Tnk2 gene encoding Ack1, are characterized by diminished CSK Y18-phosphorylation and spontaneous activation of CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cells, resulting in inhibited growth of transplanted ICB-resistant tumours. Furthermore, ICB treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) patients results in re-activation of ACK1/pY18-CSK signalling, confirming the involvement of this pathway in ICB insensitivity. An ACK1 small-molecule inhibitor, (R)-9b, recapitulates inhibition of ICB-resistant tumours, which provides evidence for ACK1 enzymatic activity playing a pivotal role in generating ICB resistance. Overall, our study identifies an important mechanism of ICB resistance and holds potential for expanding the scope of ICB therapy to tumours that are currently unresponsive.
PXD037221	36377953	CycA-Dependent Glycine Assimilation Is Connected to Novobiocin Susceptibility in Escherichia coli. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis reveals the expression of various proteins in Escherichia coli	glyA, novobiocin, resistance, yrdC	Escherichia coli serine hydroxymethyltransferase (GlyA) converts serine to glycine, and glyA mutants are auxotrophic for glycine. CycA is a transporter that mediates glycine uptake. Deleting glyA in E. coli strain W3110 led to activation of CysB, which was related to novobiocin (NOV) susceptibility. Moreover, deleting glyA resulted in increased sensitivity to NOV, and this could be reversed by high concentrations of glycine. Reverse mutants of DeltaglyA were selected and one of them had a mutation in yrdC, the gene encoding threonylcarbamoyl-AMP synthase. Subsequent proteome analysis showed that deleting glyA led to increased expression of TcyP and TdcB, making this bacterium dependent on CycA for glycine assimilation. Furthermore, deleting cycA in a DeltaglyA background caused a severe growth defect on Luria-Bertani medium, which could be complemented by high concentrations of exogenous glycine. Mutation of yrdC led to decreased expression of TdcB but increased expression of ThrA/B/C and LtaE, which favored the conversion of threonine to glycine and thus avoided the dependence on CycA. Correspondingly, deleting of tcyP, tdcB, or gshA could reverse the NOV-sensitive phenotype of DeltaglyA mutants. Overexpression of cycA resulted in increased sensitivity to NOV, whereas deleting this gene caused NOV resistance. Moreover, overexpression of cycA led to increased accumulation of NOV upon drug treatment. Therefore, inactivation of glyA in E. coli led to CycA-dependent glycine assimilation, which enhanced the accumulation of NOV and then made the bacterium more sensitive to this drug. These findings broaden our understanding of glycine metabolism and mechanisms of NOV susceptibility. IMPORTANCE Novobiocin (NOV) has been used in clinical practice as an ATPase inhibitor for decades. However, because it has been withdrawn from the market, pharmaceutical companies are searching for other ATPase inhibitors. Thus, probing the mechanisms of susceptibility to NOV will be beneficial to those efforts. In this study, we showed that inactivation of glyA in E. coli led to CycA-dependent glycine assimilation, which accompanied the accumulation of NOV and thereby increased the sensitivity to this drug. To date, this is the first report demonstrating the linkage between glycine assimilation and NOV susceptibility, and it is also the first report showing that YrdC is able to modulate the metabolic flux of threonine.
PXD027579	36378135	Light acclimation interacts with thylakoid ion transport to govern the dynamics of photosynthesis in Arabidopsis. 	Acclimation of the Arabidopsis thaliana thylakoid proteome to different light conditions	dynamic light conditions, light acclimation, thylakoids	Understanding photosynthesis in natural, dynamic light environments requires knowledge of long-term acclimation, short-term responses, and their mechanistic interactions. To approach the latter, we systematically determined and characterized light-environmental effects on thylakoid ion transport-mediated short-term responses during light fluctuations. For this, Arabidopsis thaliana wild-type and mutants of the Cl(-) channel VCCN1 and the K(+) exchange antiporter KEA3 were grown under eight different light environments and characterized for photosynthesis-associated parameters and factors in steady state and during light fluctuations. For a detailed characterization of selected light conditions, we monitored ion flux dynamics at unprecedented high temporal resolution by a modified spectroscopy approach. Our analyses reveal that daily light intensity sculpts photosynthetic capacity as a main acclimatory driver with positive and negative effects on the function of KEA3 and VCCN1 during high-light phases, respectively. Fluctuations in light intensity boost the accumulation of the photoprotective pigment zeaxanthin (Zx). We show that KEA3 suppresses Zx accumulation during the day, which together with its direct proton transport activity accelerates photosynthetic transition to lower light intensities. In summary, both light-environment factors, intensity and variability, modulate the function of thylakoid ion transport in dynamic photosynthesis with distinct effects on lumen pH, Zx accumulation, photoprotection, and photosynthetic efficiency.
PXD025561	36378750	M1 muscarinic receptor activation reduces the molecular pathology and slows the progression of prion-mediated neurodegenerative disease. 	Slowing prion disease via M1 muscarinic receptors is associated with reduced neuroinflammation and down-regulation of neurodegenerative disease markers	Alzheimer's disease, G protein-coupled receptor, M1 muscarinic acetylcholine recep, Warwick_RTP, neurodegeneration, neurodegenerative disease, neuroinflammation, positive allosteric modulators, prion disease, transcriptomic	Many dementias are propagated through the spread of "prion-like" misfolded proteins. This includes prion diseases themselves (such as Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), for which no treatments are available to slow or stop progression. The M1 acetylcholine muscarinic receptor (M1 receptor) is abundant in the brain, and its activity promotes cognitive function in preclinical models and in patients with AD. Here, we investigated whether activation of the M1 receptor might slow the progression of neurodegeneration associated with prion-like misfolded protein in a mouse model of prion disease. Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of the hippocampus revealed that this model had a molecular profile that was similar to that of human neurodegenerative diseases, including AD. Chronic enhancement of the activity of the M1 receptor with the positive allosteric modulator (PAM) VU0486846 reduced the abundance of prion-induced molecular markers of neuroinflammation and mitochondrial dysregulation in the hippocampus and normalized the abundance of those associated with neurotransmission, including synaptic and postsynaptic signaling components. PAM treatment of prion-infected mice prolonged survival and maintained cognitive function. Thus, allosteric activation of M1 receptors may reduce the severity of neurodegenerative diseases caused by the prion-like propagation of misfolded protein.
PXD036956	36379402	Identification of Novel Kinases of Tau Using Fluorescence Complementation Mass Spectrometry (FCMS). 	Identification of novel kinases of Tau using fluorescence complementation mass spectrometry (FCMS)	Tau, kinases	Hyperphosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein Tau is a major hallmark of Alzheimer's disease and other tauopathies. Understanding the protein kinases that phosphorylate Tau is critical for the development of new drugs that target Tau phosphorylation. At present, the repertoire of the Tau kinases remains incomplete, and methods to uncover novel upstream protein kinases are still limited. Here, we apply our newly developed proteomic strategy, fluorescence complementation mass spectrometry, to identify novel kinase candidates of Tau. By constructing Tau- and kinase-fluorescent fragment library, we detected 59 Tau-associated kinases, including 23 known kinases of Tau and 36 novel candidate kinases. In the validation phase using in vitro phosphorylation, among 15 candidate kinases we attempted to purify and test, four candidate kinases, OXSR1 (oxidative-stress responsive gene 1), DAPK2 (death-associated protein kinase 2), CSK (C-terminal SRC kinase), and ZAP70 (zeta chain of T-cell receptor-associated protein kinase 70), displayed the ability to phosphorylate Tau in time-course experiments. Furthermore, coexpression of these four kinases along with Tau increased the phosphorylation of Tau in human neuroglioma H4 cells. We demonstrate that fluorescence complementation mass spectrometry is a powerful proteomic strategy to systematically identify potential kinases that can phosphorylate Tau in cells. Our discovery of new candidate kinases of Tau can present new opportunities for developing Alzheimer's disease therapeutic strategies.
PXD030109	36380386	FMO3 deficiency of duck leads to decreased lipid deposition and increased antibacterial activity. 	Duck liver LC-MSMS provides insights into trimethylamine metabolism	Duck, Liver	BACKGROUND: Most duck eggs possess a fishy odor, indicating that ducks generally exhibit impaired trimethylamine (TMA) metabolism. TMA accumulation is responsible for this unpleasant odor, and TMA metabolism plays an essential role in trimethylaminuria (TMAU), also known as fish odor syndrome. In this study, we focused on the unusual TMA metabolism mechanism in ducks, and further explored the unclear reasons leading to the debilitating TMA metabolism. METHODS: To achieve this, transcriptome, proteome, and metagenome analyses were first integrated based on the constructed duck populations with high and low TMA metabolism abilities. Additionally, further experiments were conducted to validate the hypothesis regarding the limited flavin-containing monooxygenase 3 (FMO3) metabolism ability of ducks. RESULTS: The study demonstrated that liver FMO3 and cecal microbes, including Akkermansia and Mucispirillum, participated in TMA metabolism in ducks. The limited oxidation ability of FMO3 explains the weakening of TMA metabolism in ducks. Nevertheless, it decreases lipid deposition and increases antibacterial activity, contributing to its survival and reproduction during the evolutionary adaptation process. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrated the function of FMO3 and intestinal microbes in regulating TMA metabolism and illustrated the biological significance of FMO3 impairment in ducks.
PXD033913	36382088	SLFN11 negatively regulates non-canonical NFkB signaling to promote glioblastoma progression. 	Critical regulatory roles of SLFN11 on NF-kB signaling and its effects on glioblastoma growth and survival	QE-HF, glioblastoma	Glioblastoma (GBM) is an aggressive and incurable brain tumor in nearly all instances, whose disease progression is driven in part by the glioma stem cell (GSC) subpopulation. Here, we explored the effects of Schlafen family member 11 (SLFN11) in the molecular, cellular and tumor biology of GBM. CRISPR/Cas9 mediated knockout (KO) of SLFN11 inhibited GBM cell proliferation and neurosphere growth and was associated with reduced expression of progenitor/stem cell marker genes, such as NES, SOX2 and CD44. Loss of SLFN11 stimulated expression of NF-kappaB target genes, consistent with a negative regulatory role for SLFN11 on the NF-kappaB pathway. Further, our studies identify p21 as a direct transcriptional target of NF-kappaB2 in GBM whose expression was stimulated by loss of SLFN11. Genetic disruption of SLFN11 blocked GBM growth and significantly extended survival in an orthotopic patient-derived xenograft model. Together, our results identify SLFN11 as a novel component of signaling pathways that contribute to GBM and GSC with implications for future diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.
PXD032173	36382189	Plasticity and therapeutic potential of cAMP and cGMP-specific phosphodiesterases in Toxoplasma gondii. 	Mutagenesis of Key Phosphodiesterases in Toxoplasma gondii Demonstrates the Plasticity and Therapeutic Potential of Cyclic Nucleotide Signaling	PDE1, PDE2, Toxoplasma gondii, immunoprecipitation, phosphodiesterase	Toxoplasma gondii is a common zoonotic protozoan pathogen adapted to intracellular parasitism in many host cells of diverse organisms. Our previous work has identified 18 cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase (PDE) proteins encoded by the parasite genome, of which 11 are expressed during the lytic cycle of its acutely-infectious tachyzoite stage in human cells. Here, we show that ten of these enzymes are promiscuous dual-specific phosphodiesterases, hydrolyzing cAMP and cGMP. TgPDE1 and TgPDE9, with a Km of 18 muM and 31 muM, respectively, are primed to hydrolyze cGMP, whereas TgPDE2 is highly specific to cAMP (Km, 14 muM). Immuno-electron microscopy revealed various subcellular distributions of TgPDE1, 2, and 9, including in the inner membrane complex, apical pole, plasma membrane, cytosol, dense granule, and rhoptry, indicating spatial control of signaling within tachyzoites. Notably, despite shared apical location and dual-catalysis, TgPDE8 and TgPDE9 are fully dispensable for the lytic cycle and show no functional redundancy. In contrast, TgPDE1 and TgPDE2 are individually required for optimal growth, and their collective loss is lethal to the parasite. In vitro phenotyping of these mutants revealed the roles of TgPDE1 and TgPDE2 in proliferation, gliding motility, invasion and egress of tachyzoites. Moreover, our enzyme inhibition assays in conjunction with chemogenetic phenotyping underpin TgPDE1 as a target of commonly-used PDE inhibitors, BIPPO and zaprinast. Finally, we identified a retinue of TgPDE1 and TgPDE2-interacting kinases and phosphatases, possibly regulating the enzymatic activity. In conclusion, our datasets on the catalytic function, physiological relevance, subcellular localization and drug inhibition of key phosphodiesterases highlight the previously-unanticipated plasticity and therapeutic potential of cyclic nucleotide signaling in T. gondii.
PXD031468	36383657	Ubiquitin-based pathway acts inside chloroplasts to regulate photosynthesis. 	Ubiquitin-based pathway acts inside chloroplasts to regulate photosynthesis	CHLORAD, chloroplasts, organelle, proteolysis, ubiquitin, ubiquitinom	Photosynthesis is the energetic basis for most life on Earth, and in plants it operates inside double membrane-bound organelles called chloroplasts. The photosynthetic apparatus comprises numerous proteins encoded by the nuclear and organellar genomes. Maintenance of this apparatus requires the action of internal chloroplast proteases, but a role for the nucleocytosolic ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) was not expected, owing to the barrier presented by the double-membrane envelope. Here, we show that photosynthesis proteins (including those encoded internally by chloroplast genes) are ubiquitinated and processed via the CHLORAD pathway: They are degraded by the 26S proteasome following CDC48-dependent retrotranslocation to the cytosol. This demonstrates that the reach of the UPS extends to the interior of endosymbiotically derived chloroplasts, where it acts to regulate photosynthesis, arguably the most fundamental process of life.
PXD028834	36384108	Global profiling of the proteomic changes associated with the post-testicular maturation of mouse spermatozoa. 	Global profiling of the proteomic changes associated with the post-testicular maturation of mouse spermatozoa	Acrosome reaction, RHOA, epididymis, male fertility, sperm maturation, sperm proteome, spermatozoa	Spermatozoa acquire fertilization potential during passage through a highly specialized region of the extratesticular ductal system known as the epididymis. In the absence of de novo gene transcription or protein translation, this functional transformation is extrinsically driven via the exchange of varied macromolecular cargo between spermatozoa and the surrounding luminal plasma. Key among these changes is a substantive remodeling of the sperm proteomic architecture, the scale of which has yet to be fully resolved. Here, we have exploited quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics to define the extent of changes associated with the maturation of mouse spermatozoa; reporting the identity of >6,000 proteins, encompassing the selective loss and gain of several hundred proteins. Further, we demonstrate epididymal-driven activation of RHOA-mediated signaling pathways is an important component of sperm maturation. These data contribute molecular insights into the complexity of proteomic changes associated with epididymal sperm maturation.
PXD038034	36384136	Energy sensor AMPK gamma regulates translation via phosphatase PPP6C independent of AMPK alpha. 	Energy sensor AMPK gamma regulates translation via phosphatase PPP6C independent of AMPK alpha	AMPK, phosphoproteomics	Maintenance of energy level to drive movements and material exchange with the environment is a basic principle of life. AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) senses energy level and is a major regulator of cellular energy responses. The gamma subunit of AMPK senses elevated ratio of AMP to ATP and allosterically activates the alpha catalytic subunit to phosphorylate downstream effectors. Here, we report that knockout of AMPKgamma, but not AMPKalpha, suppressed phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation elongation factor 2 (eEF2) induced by energy starvation. We identified PPP6C as an AMPKgamma-regulated phosphatase of eEF2. AMP-bound AMPKgamma sequesters PPP6C, thereby blocking dephosphorylation of eEF2 and thus inhibiting translation elongation to preserve energy and to promote cell survival. Further phosphoproteomic analysis identified additional targets of PPP6C regulated by energy stress in an AMPKgamma-dependent manner. Thus, AMPKgamma senses cellular energy availability to regulate not only AMPKalpha kinase, but also PPP6C phosphatase and possibly other effectors.
PXD033729	36384142	Astrocyte endfoot formation controls the termination of oligodendrocyte precursor cell perivascular migration during development. 	Astrocyte, OPC, OL in rat postnatal development	Olidogendroglia, astrocyte	Oligodendrocyte precursor cells (OPCs) undergo an extensive and coordinated migration in the developing CNS, using the pre-formed scaffold of developed blood vessels as their physical substrate for migration. While OPC association with vasculature is critical for dispersal, equally important for permitting differentiation and proper myelination of target axons is their appropriate and timely detachment, but regulation of this process remains unclear. Here we demonstrate a correlation between the developmental formation of astrocytic endfeet on vessels and the termination of OPC perivascular migration. Ex vivo and in vivo live imaging shows that astrocyte endfeet physically displace OPCs from vasculature, and genetic abrogation of endfoot formation hinders both OPC detachment from vessels and subsequent differentiation. Astrocyte-derived semaphorins 3a and 6a act to repel OPCs from blood vessels at the cessation of their perivascular migration and, in so doing, permit subsequent OPC differentiation by insulating them from a maturation inhibitory endothelial niche.
PXD034618	36384582	Adaptation of a microbial community to demand-oriented biological methanation. 	Adaptation of a microbial community to demand-oriented biological methanation	Renewable energy, acetoclastic methanogens, biogas upgrade, biological methanation, hydrogen starvation, hydrogenotrophic methanogens, metaproteomics, microbial food-web, power to methane	BACKGROUND: Biological conversion of the surplus of renewable electricity and carbon dioxide (CO2) from biogas plants to biomethane (CH4) could support energy storage and strengthen the power grid. Biological methanation (BM) is linked closely to the activity of biogas-producing Bacteria and methanogenic Archaea. During reactor operations, the microbiome is often subject to various changes, e.g., substrate limitation or pH-shifts, whereby the microorganisms are challenged to adapt to the new conditions. In this study, various process parameters including pH value, CH4 production rate, conversion yields and final gas composition were monitored for a hydrogenotrophic-adapted microbial community cultivated in a laboratory-scale BM reactor. To investigate the robustness of the BM process regarding power oscillations, the biogas microbiome was exposed to five hydrogen (H2)-feeding regimes lasting several days. RESULTS: Applying various "on-off" H2-feeding regimes, the CH4 production rate recovered quickly, demonstrating a significant resilience of the microbial community. Analyses of the taxonomic composition of the microbiome revealed a high abundance of the bacterial phyla Firmicutes, Bacteroidota and Thermotogota followed by hydrogenotrophic Archaea of the phylum Methanobacteriota. Homo-acetogenic and heterotrophic fermenting Bacteria formed a complex food web with methanogens. The abundance of the methanogenic Archaea roughly doubled during discontinuous H2-feeding, which was related mainly to an increase in acetoclastic Methanothrix species. Results also suggested that Bacteria feeding on methanogens could reduce overall CH4 production. On the other hand, using inactive biomass as a substrate could support the growth of methanogenic Archaea. During the BM process, the additional production of H2 by fermenting Bacteria seemed to support the maintenance of hydrogenotrophic methanogens at non-H2-feeding phases. Besides the elusive role of Methanothrix during the H2-feeding phases, acetate consumption and pH maintenance at the non-feeding phase can be assigned to this species. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, the high adaptive potential of microbial communities contributes to the robustness of BM processes during discontinuous H2-feeding and supports the commercial use of BM processes for energy storage. Discontinuous feeding strategies could be used to enrich methanogenic Archaea during the establishment of a microbial community for BM. Both findings could contribute to design and improve BM processes from lab to pilot scale.
PXD037474	36384964	Mechanochemical tuning of a kinesin motor essential for malaria parasite transmission. 	Mechanochemical tuning of a kinesin motor essential for malaria parasite transmission	ATPase, Warwick_RTP, cryo-EM, flagella, kinesin, malaria, microtubule, motor	Plasmodium species cause malaria and kill hundreds of thousands annually. The microtubule-based motor kinesin-8B is required for development of the flagellated Plasmodium male gamete, and its absence completely blocks parasite transmission. To understand the molecular basis of kinesin-8B's essential role, we characterised the in vitro properties of kinesin-8B motor domains from P. berghei and P. falciparum. Both motors drive ATP-dependent microtubule gliding, but also catalyse ATP-dependent microtubule depolymerisation. We determined these motors' microtubule-bound structures using cryo-electron microscopy, which showed very similar modes of microtubule interaction in which Plasmodium-distinct sequences at the microtubule-kinesin interface influence motor function. Intriguingly however, P. berghei kinesin-8B exhibits a non-canonical structural response to ATP analogue binding such that neck linker docking is not induced. Nevertheless, the neck linker region is required for motility and depolymerisation activities of these motors. These data suggest that the mechanochemistry of Plasmodium kinesin-8Bs is functionally tuned to support flagella formation.
PXD030618	36385496	Identification of fungal lignocellulose-degrading biocatalysts secreted by Phanerochaete chrysosporium via activity-based protein profiling. 	Activity-based protein profiling assay for functional biocatalyst screening in white rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium grown on beech wood chips	Activity-based protein profiling, biocatalysis, carbohydrate, green chemistry, lignocellulose degradation	Activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) has emerged as a versatile biochemical method for studying enzyme activity under various physiological conditions, with applications so far mainly in biomedicine. Here, we show the potential of ABPP in the discovery of biocatalysts from the thermophilic and lignocellulose-degrading white rot fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium. By employing a comparative ABPP-based functional screen, including a direct profiling of wood substrate-bound enzymes, we identify those lignocellulose-degrading carbohydrate esterase (CE1 and CE15) and glycoside hydrolase (GH3, GH5, GH16, GH17, GH18, GH25, GH30, GH74 and GH79) enzymes specifically active in presence of the substrate. As expression of fungal enzymes remains challenging, our ABPP-mediated approach represents a preselection procedure for focusing experimental efforts on the most promising biocatalysts. Furthermore, this approach may also allow the functional annotation of domains-of-unknown functions (DUFs). The ABPP-based biocatalyst screening described here may thus allow the identification of active enzymes in a process of interest and the elucidation of novel biocatalysts that share no sequence similarity to known counterparts.
PXD034452	36385767	Chronic exercise remodels the lysine acetylome in the mouse hippocampus. 	Chronic exercise remodels the lysine acetylome in the mouse hippocampus	Acetylation, Exercise, Hippocampus, Metabolism, Post-translational modification	Physical exercise benefits hippocampal function through various molecular mechanisms. Protein acetylation, a conserved and widespread post-translational modification, is involved in the synaptic plasticity and memory. However, whether exercise can change global acetylation and the role of acetylated proteins in the hippocampus have remained largely unknown. Herein, using healthy adult mice running for 6 weeks as exercise model and sedentary mice as control, we analyzed the hippocampal lysine acetylome and proteome by Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. As a result, we profiled the lysine acetylation landscape for the hippocampus and identified 3,876 acetyl sites and 1,764 acetylated proteins. A total of 272 acetyl sites on 252 proteins were differentially regulated by chronic exercise, among which 18.58% acetylated proteins were annotated in mitochondria. These proteins were dominantly deacetylated and mainly associated with carbon-related metabolism, the Hippo signaling pathway, ribosomes, and protein processing. Meanwhile, 21 proteins were significantly expressed and enriched in the pathway of complement and coagulation cascades. Our findings provide a new avenue for understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying the benefits of exercise for hippocampal function and can contribute to the promotion of public health.
PXD034787	36386827	Proteome changes of sheep rumen epithelium during postnatal development. 	Proteome Changes of Sheep Rumen Epithelium during Post-natal Development	LC-MS, postnatal development, rumen epithelium, sheep	Background: The development of the rumen epithelium is a critical physiological challenge for sheep. However, the molecular mechanism underlying postnatal rumen development in sheep remains rarely understood. Results: Here, we used a shotgun approach and bioinformatics analyses to investigate and compare proteomic profiles of sheep rumen epithelium tissue on day 0, 15, 30, 45, and 60 of age. A total of 4,523 proteins were identified, in which we found 852, 342, 164, and 95 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between day 0 and day 15, between day 15 and day 30, between day 30 and day 45, between day 45 and day 60, respectively. Furthermore, subcellular localization analysis showed that the DEPs were majorly localized in mitochondrion between day 0 and day 15, after which nucleus proteins were the most DEPs. Finally, Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses showed that DEPs significantly enriched in mitochondrion, ubiquitination, histone modifications, glutathione synthase activity, and wnt and nortch signaling pathways. Conclusion: Our data indicate that the biogenesis of mitochondrion in rumen epithelial cell is essential for the initiation of rumen epithelial development. Glutathione, wnt signaling pathway and nortch signaling pathway participated in rumen epithelial growth. Ubiquitination, post-translational modifications of histone might be key molecular functions in regulating rumen epithelial development.
PXD034329	36387443	SGOL1-AS1 enhances cell survival in acute myeloid leukemia by maintaining pro-inflammatory signaling. 	Pulldown of proteins interacting with SGOL1-AS1 in AML	AML, Acute Myeloid Leukemia, lncRNA, long non-coding RNA	Epigenetic dysregulation is a key feature of most acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Recently, it has become clear that long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) can play a key role in epigenetic regulation, and consequently also dysregulation. Currently, our understanding of the requirements and roles of lncRNAs in AML is still limited. Here, using CRISPRi screening, we identified the lncRNA SGOL1-AS1 as an essential regulator of survival in THP-1 AML cells. We demonstrated that SGOL1-AS1 interacts with chromatin-modifying proteins involved in gene repression and that SGOL1-AS1 knockdown is associated with increased heterochromatin formation. We also observed that loss of SGOLl-AS1 results in increased apoptosis and the downregulation of pro-inflammatory genes. In AML patients, high expression of SGOL1-AS1 correlates with both pro-inflammatory gene expression and poor survival. Altogether, our data reveal that SGOL1-AS1 is an essential regulator of cell survival in AML cell lines and a possible regulator of pro-inflammatory signaling in AML patients.
PXD037386	36388911	Association of the serological status of rheumatoid arthritis patients with two circulating protein biomarkers: A useful tool for precision medicine strategies. 	Two circulating biomarkers are associated with the serological status of Rheumatoid Arthritis patients: a tool for precision medicine strategies	Haptoglobin, Orosomucoid 1, Rheumatoid anhritis, biomarker, multiple reaction monitoring	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is an autoimmune disease characterized by chronic inflammation of the joints and presence of systemic autoantibodies, with a great clinical and molecular heterogeneity. Rheumatoid Factor (RF) and anti-citrullinated protein antibodies (ACPA) are routinely used for the diagnosis of RA. However, additional serological markers are needed to improve the clinical management of this disease, allowing for better patient stratification and the desirable application of precision medicine strategies. In the present study, we investigated those systemic molecular changes that are associated with the RF and ACPA status of RA patients. To achieve this objective, we followed a proteomic biomarker pipeline from the discovery phase to validation. First, we performed an iTRAQ-based quantitative proteomic experiment on serum samples from the RA cohort of the Hospital of Santiago de Compostela (CHUS). In this discovery phase, serum samples from the CHUS cohort were pooled according to their RF/ACPA status. Shotgun analysis revealed that, in comparison with the double negative group (RF-/ACPA-), the abundance of 12 proteins was altered in the RF+/ACPA+ pool, 16 in the RF+/ACPA- pool and 10 in the RF-/ACPA+ pool. Vitamin D binding protein and haptoglobin were the unique proteins increased in all the comparisons. For the verification phase, 80 samples from the same cohort were analyzed individually. To this end, we developed a Multiple Reaction Monitoring (MRM) method that was employed in a comprehensive targeted analysis with the aim of verifying the results obtained in the discovery phase. Thirty-one peptides belonging to 12 proteins associated with RF and/or ACPA status were quantified by MRM. In a final validation phase, the serum levels of alpha-1-acid glycoprotein 1 (A1AG1), haptoglobin (HPT) and retinol-binding protein 4 (RET4) were measured by immunoassays in the RA cohort of the Hospital of A Coruna (HUAC). The increase of two of these putative biomarkers in the double seropositive group was validated in 260 patients from this cohort (p = 0.009 A1AG1; p = 0.003 HPT). The increased level of A1AG1 showed association with RF rather than ACPA (p = 0.023), whereas HPT showed association with ACPA rather than RF (p = 0.013). Altogether, this study has allowed a further classification of the RA seropositive patients into two novel clusters: RF+A1AG+ and ACPA+HPT+. The determination of A1AG1 and HPT in serum would provide novel information useful for RA patient stratification, which could facilitate the effective implementation of personalized medicine in routine clinical practice.
PXD036228	36389143	Immunomodulatory effect of extracellular vesicles from Entamoeba histolytica trophozoites: Regulation of NETs and respiratory burst during confrontation with human neutrophils. 	Immunomodulatory effect of extracellular vesicles derived from Entamoeba histolytica trophozoites	Entamoeba histolytica, extracellular vesicles, immunomodulatory, neutrophil	Parasites release extracellular vesicles (EVs) which, in some cases, modulate the host's immune response contributing to the establishment of the infection. In this work we have isolated and characterized the EVs released by trophozoites of the human protozoan parasite Entamoeba histolytica, the causal agent of amoebiasis, when alone or in coculture with human neutrophils, and determined their effect on neutrophil NETs and ROS production. Nanoparticle tracking analysis showed that amoebic EVs are variable in size, ranging from less than 50 nm to nearly 600 nm in diameter (average of 167 nm), whereas neutrophil EVs are more uniform in size, with an average of 136 nm. In cocultures amoeba:neutrophil (1:100) most EVs are 98 nm in size, which is the typical size of exosomes. EVs from amoebae and neutrophils showed almost equal levels of ROS, which were considerably increased in EVs from cocultures. Uptake of amoebic EVs by neutrophils was demonstrated by fluorescence and resulted in a significant reduction in the oxidative burst and NET release triggered by PMA, ionophore A23187, or the amoebae itself used as stimuli. Interestingly, uptake of EVs from cocultures did not affect ROS production, but instead caused a greater delay in the onset of NETs release and in their quantity. A comparative proteomic analysis between the EVs of amoebae and neutrophils separately vs the cocultures showed a similar distribution of protein categories in the GO analysis, but differences in the expression and abundance of proteins such as the N-acetyl-D-galactosamine (GalNAc) inhibitable surface lectin and calreticulin in amoeba EVs, and various antimicrobial molecules in neutrophil EVs, such as lactoferrin and myeloperoxidase. These results highlight the importance of EVs in the immunomodulatory effects exerted by amoeba on human neutrophils.
PXD035517	36389821	Functional proteomics identify mannitol metabolism in serum resistance and therapeutic implications in Vibrio alginolyticus. 	Study on glycine regulation of serum resistance of Vibrio alginolyticus	Glycine, V. alginolyticus, serum resistance	Serum resistance is recognized as one of the most important pathogenic traits of bacterial pathogens, and no control measure is available. Based on our previous discovery that pathogenic Escherichia coli represses glycine, serine, and threonine metabolism to confer serum resistance and that the reactivation of this pathway by exogenous glycine could restore serum sensitivity, we further investigate the mechanism underlying the action of glycine in Vibrio alginolyticus. Thus, V. alginolyticus is treated with glycine, and the proteomic change is profiled with tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics. Compared to the control group, glycine treatment influences the expression of a total of 291 proteins. Among them, a trap-type mannitol/chloroaromatic compound transport system with periplasmic component, encoded by N646_0992, is the most significantly increased protein. In combination with the pathway enrichment analysis showing the altered fructose and mannitol metabolism, mannitol has emerged as a possible metabolite in enhancing the serum killing activity. To demonstrate this, exogenous mannitol reduces bacterial viability. This synergistic effect is further confirmed in a V. alginolyticus-Danio rerio infection model. Furthermore, the mechanism underlying mannitol-enabled serum killing is dependent on glycolysis and the pyruvate cycle that increases the deposition of complement components C3b and C5b-9 on the bacterial surface, whereas inhibiting glycolysis or the pyruvate cycle significantly weakened the synergistic effects and complement deposition. These data together suggest that mannitol is a potent metabolite in reversing the serum resistance of V. alginolyticus and has promising use in aquaculture.
PXD036151	36393834	COG4 mutation in Saul-Wilson syndrome selectively affects secretion of proteins involved in chondrogenesis in chondrocyte-like cells. 	Proteomic analysis of the secretome of chondrocyte-like cells in Saul-Wilson syndrome	Chondrocyte-like cells, Saul-Wilson syndrome, Secretome	Saul-Wilson syndrome is a rare skeletal dysplasia caused by a heterozygous mutation in COG4 (p.G516R). Our previous study showed that this mutation affected glycosylation of proteoglycans and disturbed chondrocyte elongation and intercalation in zebrafish embryos expressing the COG4(p.G516R) variant. How this mutation causes chondrocyte deficiencies remain unsolved. To analyze a disease-relevant cell type, COG4(p.G516R) variant was generated by CRISPR knock-in technique in the chondrosarcoma cell line SW1353 to study chondrocyte differentiation and protein secretion. COG4(p.G516R) cells display impaired protein trafficking and altered COG complex size, similar to SWS-derived fibroblasts. Both SW1353 and HEK293T cells carrying COG4(p.G516R) showed very modest, cell-type dependent changes in N-glycans. Using 3D culture methods, we found that cells carrying the COG4(p.G516R) variant made smaller spheroids and had increased apoptosis, indicating impaired in vitro chondrogenesis. Adding WT cells or their conditioned medium reduced cell death and increased spheroid sizes of COG4(p.G516R) mutant cells, suggesting a deficiency in secreted matrix components. Mass spectrometry-based secretome analysis showed selectively impaired protein secretion, including MMP13 and IGFBP7 which are involved in chondrogenesis and osteogenesis. We verified reduced expression of chondrogenic differentiation markers, MMP13 and COL10A1 and delayed response to BMP2 in COG4(p.G516R) mutant cells. Collectively, our results show that the Saul-Wilson syndrome COG4(p.G516R) variant selectively affects the secretion of multiple proteins, especially in chondrocyte-like cells which could further cause pleiotropic defects including hampering long bone growth in SWS individuals.
PXD037356	36393868	Integrated proteomics and phosphoproteomics revealed druggable kinases in neoadjuvant chemotherapy resistant tongue cancer. 	Integrated proteomics and phosphoproteomics revealed druggable kinases in neoadjuvant chemotherapy resistant tongue cancer	Tissue, Tongue	Tongue squamous cell carcinoma is an aggressive oral cancer with a high incidence of metastasis and poor prognosis. Most of the oral cavity cancer patients present in clinics with locally advanced unresectable tumors. Neoadjuvant treatment is beneficial for these individuals as it reduces the tumor size aiding complete resection. However, patients develop therapy resistance to the drug regimen. In this study, we explored the differential expression of proteins and altered phosphorylation in the neoadjuvant chemotherapy resistant tongue cancer patients. We integrated the proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiles of resistant (n = 4) and sensitive cohorts (n = 4) and demonstrated the differential expression and phosphorylation of proteins in the primary tissue of the respective subject groups. We observed differential and extensive phosphorylation of keratins such as KRT10 and KRT1 between the two cohorts. Furthermore, our study revealed a kinase signature associated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy resistance. Kinases such as MAPK1, AKT1, and MAPK3 are predicted to regulate the resistance in non-responders. Pathway analysis showed enrichment of Rho GTPase signaling and hyperphosphosphorylation of proteins involved in cell motility, invasion, and drug resistance. Targeting the kinases could help with the clinical management of neoadjuvant chemotherapy-resistant tongue cancer.
PXD035501	36395886	The SCF-FBXW7 E3 ubiquitin ligase triggers degradation of histone 3 lysine 4 methyltransferase complex component WDR5 to prevent mitotic slippage. 	Identification of novel SCF FBXW7 substrates in asynchronous and mitotic cells	FBXW7, cell cycle, ubiquitination	During prolonged mitotic arrest induced by antimicrotubule drugs, cell fate decision is determined by two alternative pathways, one leading to cell death and the other inducing premature escape from mitosis by mitotic slippage. FBWX7, a member of the F-box family of proteins and substrate-targeting subunit of the SKP1-CUL1-F-Box E3 ubiquitin ligase complex, promotes mitotic cell death and prevents mitotic slippage, but molecular details underlying these roles for FBWX7 are unclear. In this study, we report that WDR5 (WD-repeat containing protein 5), a component of the mixed lineage leukemia complex of histone 3 lysine 4 methyltransferases, is a substrate of FBXW7. We determined by coimmunoprecipitation experiments and in vitro binding assays that WDR5 interacts with FBXW7 in vivo and in vitro. SKP1-CUL1-F-Box-FBXW7 mediates ubiquitination of WDR5 and targets it for proteasomal degradation. Furthermore, we find that WDR5 depletion counteracts FBXW7 loss of function by reducing mitotic slippage and polyploidization. In conclusion, our data elucidate a new mechanism in mitotic cell fate regulation, which might contribute to prevent chemotherapy resistance in patients after antimicrotubule drug treatment.
PXD038102	36399280	The non-apoptotic function of Caspase-8 in negatively regulating the CDK9-mediated Ser2 phosphorylation of RNA polymerase II in cervical cancer. 	The non-apoptotic function of Caspase-8 in negatively regulating the CDK9 mediated Ser2 phosphorylation of RNA Polymerase II in cervical cancer	Caspase-8, Cervical cancer, TMT	Cervical cancer is the fourth most frequently diagnosed and fatal gynecological cancer. 15-61% of all cases metastasize and develop chemoresistance, reducing the 5-year survival of cervical cancer patients to as low as 17%. Therefore, unraveling the mechanisms contributing to metastasis is critical in developing better-targeted therapies against it. Here, we have identified a novel mechanism where nuclear Caspase-8 directly interacts with and inhibits the activity of CDK9, thereby modulating RNAPII-mediated global transcription, including those of cell-migration- and cell-invasion-associated genes. Crucially, low Caspase-8 expression in cervical cancer patients leads to poor prognosis, higher CDK9 phosphorylation at Thr186, and increased RNAPII activity in cervical cancer cell lines and patient biopsies. Caspase-8 knock-out cells were also more resistant to the small-molecule CDK9 inhibitor BAY1251152 in both 2D- and 3D-culture conditions. Combining BAY1251152 with Cisplatin synergistically overcame chemoresistance of Caspase-8-deficient cervical cancer cells. Therefore, Caspase-8 expression could be a marker in chemoresistant cervical tumors, suggesting CDK9 inhibitor treatment for their sensitization to Cisplatin-based chemotherapy.
PXD035629	36400763	Unscheduled DNA replication in G1 causes genome instability and damage signatures indicative of replication collisions. 	AP-MS of replisomes from S. cerevisiae in S phase and after unscheduled G1 replication	DNA replication, GINS complex	DNA replicates once per cell cycle. Interfering with the regulation of DNA replication initiation generates genome instability through over-replication and has been linked to early stages of cancer development. Here, we engineer genetic systems in budding yeast to induce unscheduled replication in a G1-like cell cycle state. Unscheduled G1 replication initiates at canonical S-phase origins. We quantifiy the composition of replisomes in G1- and S-phase and identified firing factors, polymerase alpha, and histone supply as factors that limit replication outside S-phase. G1 replication per se does not trigger cellular checkpoints. Subsequent replication during S-phase, however, results in over-replication and leads to chromosome breaks and chromosome-wide, strand-biased occurrence of RPA-bound single-stranded DNA, indicating head-to-tail replication collisions as a key mechanism generating genome instability upon G1 replication. Low-level, sporadic induction of G1 replication induces an identical response, indicating findings from synthetic systems are applicable to naturally occurring scenarios of unscheduled replication initiation.
PXD036198	36401165	Glycoproteomics revealed novel N-glycosylation biomarkers for early diagnosis of lung adenocarcinoma cancers. 	Glycoproteomics revealed novel N-glycosylation biomarkers for early diagnosis of lung adenocarcinoma cancers	N-glycosylation, circulating biomarkers, early diagnosis, lung adenocarcinoma, machine learning.	Circulating biomarkers play important roles in diagnosis of malignant tumors. N-glycosylation is an important post-translation patter and obviously affect biological behaviors of malignant tumor cells. However, the role of N-glycosylation sites in early diagnosis of tumors still remains further investigation. In this study, plasma from 20 lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), which were all classified as stage I, as well as 20 normal controls (NL) were labeled and screened by mass spectrometry (MS). Total 39 differential N-glycosylation sites were detected in LUAD, 17 were up-regulated and 22 were down-regulated. In all differential sites, ITGB3-680 showed highest potential in LUAD which showed 99.2% AUC, 95.0% SP and 95.0% SN. Besides, APOB-1523 (AUC: 89.0%, SP: 95.0%, SN: 70.0%), APOB-2982 (AUC: 86.8%, SP: 95.0%, SN: 45.0%) and LPAL2-101 (AUC: 81.1%, SP: 95.0%, SN: 47.4%) also acted as candidate biomarkers in LUAD. Combination analysis was then performed by random forest model, all samples were divided into training group (16 cases) and testing group (4 cases) and conducted by feature selection, machine learning, integrated model of classifier and model evaluation. And the results indicated that combination of differential sites could reach 100% AUC in both training and testing group. Taken together, our study revealed multiple N-glycosylation sites which could be applied as candidate biomarkers for early diagnosis diagnosis of LUAD.
PXD034591	36401289	Protein arginine deiminase 2 (PAD2) modulates the polarization of THP-1 macrophages to the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotype. 	Proteomics of THP-1 macrophages polarization to M1 and M2 phenotype and treated with BB-Cl-amidine	SWATH, citrullination, macrophages polarization, protein arginine deiminase	BACKGROUND: Macrophages are effector cells of the innate immune system that undergo phenotypical changes in response to organ injury and repair. These cells are most often classified as proinflammatory M1 and anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages. Protein arginine deiminase (PAD), which catalyses the irreversible conversion of protein-bound arginine into citrulline, is expressed in macrophages. However, the substrates of PAD and its role in immune cells remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of PAD in THP-1 macrophage polarization to the M1 and M2 phenotypes and identify the citrullinated proteins and modified arginines that are associated with this biological switch using mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Our study showed that PAD2 and, to a lesser extent, PAD1 and PAD4 were predominantly expressed in M1 macrophages. We showed that inhibiting PAD expression with BB-Cl-amidine decreased macrophage polarization to the M1 phenotype (TNF-alpha, IL-6) and increased macrophage polarization to the M2 phenotype (MRC1, ALOX15). This process was mediated by the downregulation of proteins involved in the NF-kappabeta pathway. Silencing PAD2 confirmed the activation of M2 macrophages by increasing the antiviral innate immune response and interferon signalling. A total of 192 novel citrullination sites associated with inflammation, cell death and DNA/RNA processing pathways were identified in M1 and M2 macrophages. CONCLUSIONS: We showed that inhibiting PAD activity using a pharmacological inhibitor or silencing PAD2 with PAD2 siRNA shifted the activation of macrophages towards the M2 phenotype, which can be crucial for designing novel macrophage-mediated therapeutic strategies. We revealed a major citrullinated proteome and its rearrangement following macrophage polarization, which after further validation could lead to significant clinical benefits for the treatment of inflammation and autoimmune diseases.
PXD022072	36401637	Proteomics uncover EPHA2 as a potential novel therapeutic target in colorectal cancer cell lines with acquired cetuximab resistance. 	Proteomics uncover EPHA2 in cetuximab resistant colorectal cancer cell lines as a potential novel therapeutic target	EPHA2, cetuximab resistance	BACKGROUND: In metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC), acquired resistance against anti-EGFR targeted monoclonal antibodies, such as cetuximab (CET), was shown to be frequently caused by activating alterations in the RAS genes KRAS or NRAS. To this day, no efficient follow-up treatment option has emerged to treat mCRC in such a setting of resistance. METHODS: To uncover potential targets for second-line targeted therapies, we used mass-spectrometric proteomics to shed light on kinome reprogramming in an established cellular model of acquired, KRAS-associated CET resistance. RESULTS: This CET resistance was reflected by significant changes in the kinome, most of them individual to each cell line. Interestingly, all investigated resistant cell lines displayed upregulation of the Ephrin type-A receptor 2 (EPHA2), a well-known driver of traits of progression. Expectedly resistant cell lines displayed increased migration (p < 0.01) that was significantly reduced by targeting the EPHA2 signalling axis using RNA interference (RNAi) (p < 0.001), ephrin-A1 stimulation (p < 0.001), dasatinib (p < 0.01), or anti-EPHA2 antibody treatment (p < 0.001), identifying it as an actionable target in mCRC with acquired CET resistance. CONCLUSION: These results highlight EPHA2 and its role in mCRC with KRAS-gene mutated acquired CET resistance and support its use as a potential actionable target for the development of future precision medicine therapies.
PXD036667	36401639	Multidimensional separation and analysis of alpha-1-acid glycoprotein N-glycopeptides using high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) and nano-liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. 	AGP nLC-MS/MS and nLC-FAIMS-MS/MS	AGP, FAIMS, N-glycopeptide, alpha-1-acid glycoprotein, glycoproteomics, high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry	Bottom-up nLC-MS/MS-based glycoprotein mass spectrometry workflows rely on the generation of a mixture of non-glycosylated and glycosylated peptides via proteolysis of glycoproteins. Such methods are challenged by suppression of hydrophilic glycopeptide ions by more abundant, hydrophobic, and readily ionizable non-glycosylated peptides. Commercially available high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) devices have recently been introduced and present a potential benefit for glycoproteomic workflows by enabling orthogonal separation of non-glycosylated peptides and glycopeptides following chromatographic separation, and prior to MS/MS analysis. However, knowledge is lacking regarding optimal FAIMS conditions for glycopeptide analyses. Here, we document optimal FAIMS compensation voltages for the transmission and analysis of human alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP) tryptic N-glycopeptide ions. Further, we evaluate the effect of FAIMS on AGP glycopeptide assignment confidence by comparing the number of assigned glycopeptides at different confidence levels using a standard nLC-MS/MS method or an otherwise identical method employing FAIMS. Optimized methods will potentiate glycoproteomic analyses by increasing the number of unique glycopeptide identifications and the confidence of glycopeptide assignments. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD036667. Analysis of alpha-1-acid glycoprotein (AGP) tryptic digests via nLC-FAIMS-MS/MS (top) led to the establishment of ideal FAIMS voltages for the analysis of AGP N-glycopeptides (bottom), suggesting that FAIMS can improve the depth of glycoproteome characterization. Pairs of CV magnitudes are shown along the x-axis.
PXD028297	36402789	BRAF activation by metabolic stress promotes glycolysis sensitizing NRAS(Q61)-mutated melanomas to targeted therapy. 	BRAF activation by metabolic stress promotes glycolysis and survival, sensitizing NRASQ61 mutated melanomas to targeted therapy.	BRAF, Melanoma, Metabolic stress, NRAS mutation, PFKFB2	NRAS-mutated melanoma lacks a specific line of treatment. Metabolic reprogramming is considered a novel target to control cancer; however, NRAS-oncogene contribution to this cancer hallmark is mostly unknown. Here, we show that NRAS(Q61)-mutated melanomas specific metabolic settings mediate cell sensitivity to sorafenib upon metabolic stress. Mechanistically, these cells are dependent on glucose metabolism, in which glucose deprivation promotes a switch from CRAF to BRAF signaling. This scenario contributes to cell survival and sustains glucose metabolism through BRAF-mediated phosphorylation of 6-phosphofructo-2-kinase/fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase-2/3 (PFKFB2/PFKFB3). In turn, this favors the allosteric activation of phosphofructokinase-1 (PFK1), generating a feedback loop that couples glycolytic flux and the RAS signaling pathway. An in vivo treatment of NRAS(Q61) mutant melanomas, including patient-derived xenografts, with 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) and sorafenib effectively inhibits tumor growth. Thus, we provide evidence for NRAS-oncogene contributions to metabolic rewiring and a proof-of-principle for the treatment of NRAS(Q61)-mutated melanoma combining metabolic stress (glycolysis inhibitors) and previously approved drugs, such as sorafenib.
PXD033757	36402816	The non-catalytic role of DNA polymerase epsilon in replication initiation in human cells. 	Nascent DNA-associated proteome of POLE1-depleted cells	POLE1-mAID, iPOND, replication	DNA polymerase epsilon (PolE) in an enzyme essential for DNA replication. Deficiencies and mutations in PolE cause severe developmental abnormalities and cancers. Paradoxically, the catalytic domain of yeast PolE catalytic subunit is dispensable for survival, and its non-catalytic essential function is linked with replicative helicase (CMG) assembly. Less is known about the PolE role in replication initiation in human cells. Here we use an auxin-inducible degron system to study the effect of POLE1 depletion on replication initiation in U2OS cells. POLE1-depleted cells were able to assemble CMG helicase and initiate DNA synthesis that failed shortly after. Expression of POLE1 non-catalytic domain rescued this defect resulting in slow, but continuous DNA synthesis. We propose a model where in human U2OS cells POLE1/POLE2 are dispensable for CMG assembly, but essential during later steps of replication initiation. Our study provides some insights into the role of PolE in replication initiation in human cells.
PXD034871	36402845	Structure of the human heparan sulfate polymerase complex EXT1-EXT2. 	Structure of the human heparan sulfate polymerase complex EXT1-EXT2	Cell surface, EXT1, EXT2, heparan sulfates, nanoLC-MS/MS	Heparan sulfates are complex polysaccharides that mediate the interaction with a broad range of protein ligands at the cell surface. A key step in heparan sulfate biosynthesis is catalyzed by the bi-functional glycosyltransferases EXT1 and EXT2, which generate the glycan backbone consisting of repeating N-acetylglucosamine and glucuronic acid units. The molecular mechanism of heparan sulfate chain polymerization remains, however, unknown. Here, we present the cryo-electron microscopy structure of human EXT1-EXT2, which reveals the formation of a tightly packed hetero-dimeric complex harboring four glycosyltransferase domains. A combination of in vitro and in cellulo mutational studies is used to dissect the functional role of the four catalytic sites. While EXT1 can catalyze both glycosyltransferase reactions, our results indicate that EXT2 might only have N-acetylglucosamine transferase activity. Our findings provide mechanistic insight into heparan sulfate chain elongation as a nonprocessive process and lay the foundation for future studies on EXT1-EXT2 function in health and disease.
PXD037029	36406406	Identification and analysis of the interaction network of African swine fever virus D1133L with host proteins. 	Identification and analysis of the interaction network of African Swine Fever Virus D1133L with host proteins	African swine fever virus (ASFV), D1133L, Protein-protein interaction network	African swine fever (ASF) is a contagious and lethal hemorrhagic disease in pigs; its spread results in huge economic losses to the global pig industry. ASF virus (ASFV) is a large double-stranded DNA virus encoding >150 open reading frames. Among them, ASFV-encoded D1133L was predicted to be a helicase but its specific function remains unknown. Since virus-host protein interactions are key to understanding viral protein function, we used co-immunoprecipitation combined with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to investigate D1133L. This study describes the interaction network of ASFV D1133L protein in porcine kidney PK-15 cells. Overall, 1,471 host proteins that potentially interact with D1133L are identified. Based on these host proteins, a protein-protein network was constructed. Gene ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes enrichment analyses showed that cellular D1133L-interacted proteins are involved in the ribosome, spliceosome, RNA transport, oxidative phosphorylation, proteasome, and DNA replication. Vimentin (VIM), tripartite motif-containing protein 21 (TRIM21), and Tu translation elongation factor (TUFM) were confirmed to interact with D1133L in vitro. VIM or TRIM21 overexpression significantly promoted ASFV replication, but TUFM overexpression significantly inhibited ASFV replication. These results help elucidate the specific functions of D1133L and the potential mechanisms underlying ASFV replication.
PXD035469	36407113	Integrated analysis of transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics data reveals the role of SLC39A1 in renal cell carcinoma. 	Proteomic analysis of SLC39A1 in RCC cells	RCC, SLC39A1	Purpose: Accumulating evidence suggests that solute carrier family 39 member 1 (SLC39A1) conceivably function as a tumor suppressor, but the underlying mechanism in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is poorly understood. Methods: OSRC-2 renal cancer cells were first transfected with SLC39A1 overexpressed vectors and empty vectors and then used in transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics integrated analyses. Results: SLC39A1 significantly altered several metabolisms at transcriptional, protein and metabolic levels, including purine and pyrimidine metabolism, amino acids and derivatives metabolism, lactose metabolism, and free fatty acid metabolism. Additionally, SLC39A1 could promote ferroptosis, and triggered significant crosstalk in PI3K-AKT signal pathway, cAMP signal pathway, and peroxisome proliferators-activated receptor (PPAR) signal pathway. Conclusion: We found SLC39A1 transfection impaired tumor metabolism and perturbed tumor metabolism-related pathways, which was a likely cause of the alteration in cell proliferation, migration, and cell cycle progression in RCC cells. These multi-omics analyses results provided both a macroscopic picture of molecular perturbation by SLC39A1 and novel insights into RCC tumorigenesis and development.
