PXD041383	39165974	Affinity purification mass spectrometry characterisation of the interactome of receptor tyrosine kinase proline-rich motifs in cancer. 	Characterization of the interactome of receptor tyrosine kinase proline rich motifs	cancer, receptor tyrosine kinase	Receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) overexpression is linked to the development and progression of multiple cancers. RTKs are classically considered to initiate cytoplasmic signalling pathways via ligand-induced tyrosine phosphorylation, however recent evidence points to a second tier of signalling contingent on interactions mediated by the proline-rich motif (PRM) regions of non-activated RTKs. The presence of PRMs on the C-termini of >40 % of all RTKs and the abundance of PRM-binding proteins encoded by the human genome suggests that there is likely to be a large number of previously unexplored interactions which add to the RTK intracellular interactome. Here, we explore the RTK PRM interactome and its potential significance using affinity purification mass spectrometry and in silico enrichment analyses. Peptides comprising PRM-containing C-terminal tail regions of EGFR, FGFR2 and HER2 were used as bait to affinity purify bound proteins from different cancer cell line lysates. 490 unique interactors were identified, amongst which proteins with metabolic, homeostatic and migratory functions were overrepresented. This suggests that PRMs from RTKs may sustain a diverse interactome in cancer cells. Since RTK overexpression is common in cancer, RTK PRM-derived signalling may be an important, but as yet underexplored, contributor to negative cancer outcomes including resistance to kinase inhibitors.
PXD049705	39166471	DEAD-box RNA helicase RH20 positively regulates RNAi-based antiviral immunity in plants by associating with SGS3/RDR6 bodies. 	Proxitome profiling of a viral suppressors of RNA silencing identifies the DEAD-box RNA helicase RH20 as a positive regulator of antiviral RNA interference in Nicotiana benthamiana	DEAD-box RNA helicase RH20, Proxitome profiling, antiviral RNA interference, barley stripe mosaic virus, counter-defense, suppressor of gene silencing 3 (SGS3), viral suppressors of RNA silencing (VSR), gammab	RNA silencing plays a crucial role in defending against viral infections in diverse eukaryotic hosts. Despite extensive studies on core components of the antiviral RNAi pathway such as DCLs, AGOs and RDRs proteins, host factors involved in antiviral RNAi remain incompletely understood. In this study, we employed the proximity labelling approach to identify the host factors required for antiviral RNAi in Nicotiana benthamiana. Using the barley stripe mosaic virus (BSMV)-encoded gammab, a viral suppressor of RNA silencing (VSR), as the bait protein, we identified the DEAD-box RNA helicase RH20, a broadly conserved protein in plants and animals with a homologous human protein known as DDX5. We demonstrated the interaction between RH20 and BSMV gammab. Knockdown or knockout of RH20 attenuates the accumulation of viral small interfering RNAs, leading to increased susceptibility to BSMV, while overexpression of RH20 enhances resistance to BSMV, a process requiring the cytoplasmic localization and RNA-binding activity of RH20. In addition to BSMV, RH20 also negatively regulates the infection of several other positive-sense RNA viruses, suggesting the broad-spectrum antiviral activity of RH20. Mechanistic analysis revealed the colocalization and interaction of RH20 with SGS3/RDR6, and disruption of either SGS3 or RDR6 undermines the antiviral function of RH20, suggesting RH20 as a new component of the SGS3/RDR6 bodies. As a counter-defence, BSMV gammab VSR subverts the RH20-mediated antiviral defence by interfering with the RH20-SGS3 interaction. Our results uncover RH20 as a new positive regulator of antiviral RNAi and provide new potential targets for controlling plant viral diseases.
PXD054178	39167082	Molluscum contagiosum virus protein MC089 inhibits interferon regulatory factor 3 activation. 	Molluscum Contagiosum Virus Protein MC089 Inhibits Interferon Regulatory Factor 3 Activation	IKKepsilon, Innate Immunity, MAVS., MC089, Molluscum Contagiosum Virus, NAP1, TBKBP1	Molluscum contagiosum virus (MCV) is a human-specific poxvirus that causes a highly common but mild infection characterized by distinctive and persistent papular skin lesions. These lesions can persist for long periods without an effective clearance response from the host. MCV, like all poxviruses, encodes multiple known immunosuppressive proteins which target innate immune signalling pathways involved in viral nucleic acid sensing, interferon production and inflammation which should trigger antiviral immunity leading to clearance. Two major families of transcription factors responsible for driving the immune response to viruses are the NF-kappaB and the interferon regulatory factor (IRF) families. While NF-kappaB broadly drives pro-inflammatory gene expression and IRFs chiefly drive interferon induction, both collaborate in transactivating many of the same genes in a concerted immune response to viral infection. Here, we report that the MCV protein MC089 specifically inhibits IRF activation from both DNA- and RNA-sensing pathways, making it the first characterized MCV inhibitor to selectively target IRF activation to date. MC089 interacts with proteins required for IRF activation, namely IKKepsilon, TBKBP1 and NAP1. Additionally, MC089 targets RNA sensing by associating with the RNA-sensing adaptor protein mitochondrial antiviral-signalling protein on mitochondria. MC089 displays specificity in its inhibition of IRF3 activation by suppressing immunostimulatory nucleic acid-induced serine 396 phosphorylation without affecting the phosphorylation of serine 386. The selective interaction of MC089 with IRF-regulatory proteins and site-specific inhibition of IRF3 phosphorylation may offer a tool to provide novel insights into the biology of IRF3 regulation.
PXD046292	39167166	Transcriptional and secretome analysis of Rasamsonia emersonii lytic polysaccharide mono-oxygenases. 	Transcriptional and secretome analysis of Rasamsonia emersonii lytic polysaccharide mono-oxygenases	Rasamsonia emersonii, polysaccharide monooxygenase	The current study is the first to describe the temporal and differential transcriptional expression of two lytic polysaccharide monooxygenase (LPMO) genes of Rasamsonia emersonii in response to various carbon sources. The mass spectrometry based secretome analysis of carbohydrate active enzymes (CAZymes) expression in response to different carbon sources showed varying levels of LPMOs (AA9), AA3, AA7, catalase, and superoxide dismutase enzymes pointing toward the redox-interplay between the LPMOs and auxiliary enzymes. Moreover, it was observed that cello-oligosaccharides have a negative impact on the expression of LPMOs, which has not been highlighted in previous reports. The LPMO1 (30 kDa) and LPMO2 (47 kDa), cloned and expressed in Pichia pastoris, were catalytically active with (kcat/Km) of 6.6x10(-2) mg(-1) ml min(-1) and 1.8x10(-2) mg(-1) ml min(-1) against Avicel, respectively. The mass spectrometry of hydrolysis products of Avicel/carboxy methyl cellulose (CMC) showed presence of C1/C4 oxidized oligosaccharides indicating them to be Type 3 LPMOs. The 3D structural analysis of LPMO1 and LPMO2 revealed distinct arrangements of conserved catalytic residues at their active site. The developed enzyme cocktails consisting of cellulase from R. emersonii mutant M36 supplemented with recombinant LPMO1/LPMO2 resulted in significantly enhanced saccharification of steam/acid pretreated unwashed rice straw slurry from PRAJ industries (Pune, India). The current work indicates that LPMO1 and LPMO2 are catalytically efficient and have a high degree of thermostability, emphasizing their usefulness in improving benchmark enzyme cocktail performance. KEY POINTS: * Mass spectrometry depicts subtle interactions between LPMOs and auxiliary enzymes. * Cello-oligosaccharides strongly downregulated the LPMO1 expression. * Developed LPMO cocktails showed superior hydrolysis in comparison to CellicCTec3.
PXD054607	39167225	Purification, Structural Characterization, and Anticandidal Activity of a Chitin-Binding Peptide with High Similarity to Hevein and Endochitinase Isolated from Pepper Seeds. 	Purification, Structural Characterization, and Anticandidal Activity of a Chitin-binding Peptide with high Similarity to Hevein and Endochitinase Isolated from Pepper Seeds	Antimicrobial peptides, C. tropicalis, Candida albicans, Capsicum chinense, Fungi	With the emergence of multidrug-resistant microorganisms, microbial agents have become a serious global threat, affecting human health and various plants. Therefore, new therapeutic alternatives, such as chitin-binding proteins, are necessary. Chitin is an essential component of the fungal cell wall, and chitin-binding proteins exhibit antifungal activity. In the present study, chitin-binding peptides isolated from Capsicum chinense seeds were characterized and evaluated for their in vitro antimicrobial effect against the growth of Candida and Fusarium fungi. Proteins were extracted from the seeds and subsequently the chitin-binding proteins were separated by chitin affinity chromatography. After chromatography, two fractions, Cc-F1 (not retained on the column) and Cc-F2 (retained on the column), were obtained. Electrophoresis revealed major protein bands between 6.5 and 26.6 kDa for Cc-F1 and only a ~ 6.5 kDa protein band for Cc-F2, which was subsequently subjected to mass spectrometry. The protein showed similarity with hevein-like and endochitinase and was then named Cc-Hev. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD054607. Next, we predicted the three-dimensional structure of the peptides and performed a peptide docking with (NAG)3. Subsequently, growth inhibition assays were performed to evaluate the ability of the peptides to inhibit microorganism growth. Cc-Hev inhibited the growth of C. albicans (up to 75% inhibition) and C. tropicalis (100% inhibition) and induced a 65% decrease in cell viability for C. albicans and 100% for C. tropicalis. Based on these results, new techniques to combat fungal diseases could be developed through biotechnological applications; therefore, further studies are needed.
PXD046171	39167422	Deep Learning Powers Protein Identification from Precursor MS Information. 	Deep Learning Powers Protein Identification from Precursor MS Information	Deep Learning, MS1 Feature, Serum Proteomics, Single Cell	Proteome analysis currently heavily relies on tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS), which does not fully utilize MS1 features, as many precursors remain unselected for MS/MS fragmentation, especially in the cases of low abundance samples and wide abundance dynamic range samples. Therefore, leveraging MS1 features as a complement to MS/MS has become an attractive option to improve the coverage of feature identification. Herein, we propose MonoMS1, an approach combining deep learning-based retention time, ion mobility, detectability prediction, and logistic regression-based scoring for MS1 feature identification. The approach achieved a significant increase in MS1 feature identification based on an E. coli data set. Application of MonoMS1 to data sets with wide dynamic range, such as human serum proteome samples, and with low sample abundance, such as single-cell proteome samples, enabled substantial complementation of MS/MS-based peptide and protein identification. This method opens a new avenue for proteomic analysis and can boost proteomic research on complex samples.
PXD048754	39167489	The structure of the Orm2-containing serine palmitoyltransferase complex reveals distinct inhibitory potentials of yeast Orm proteins. 	Yeast Serine palmitoyl transferase interaction proteomics	Orm1, Orm2, Serine palmitoyl transferase, Sphingolipid	Sphingolipid levels are crucial determinants of neurodegenerative disorders and therefore require tight regulation. The Orm protein family and ceramides inhibit the rate-limiting step of sphingolipid biosynthesis-the condensation of L-serine and palmitoyl-coenzyme A (CoA). The yeast isoforms Orm1 and Orm2 form a complex with the serine palmitoyltransferase (SPT). While Orm1 and Orm2 have highly similar sequences, they are differentially regulated, though the mechanistic details remain elusive. Here, we determine the cryoelectron microscopy structure of the SPT complex containing Orm2. Complementary in vitro activity assays and genetic experiments with targeted lipidomics demonstrate a lower activity of the SPT-Orm2 complex than the SPT-Orm1 complex. Our results suggest a higher inhibitory potential of Orm2, despite the similar structures of the Orm1- and Orm2-containing complexes. The high conservation of SPT from yeast to man implies different regulatory capacities for the three human ORMDL isoforms, which might be key for understanding their role in sphingolipid-mediated neurodegenerative disorders.
PXD054025	39168102	Proteomic landscape profiling of primary prostate cancer reveals a 16-protein panel for prognosis prediction. 	PCSHA changhai prostate cancer (PCa) proteomics	prostate cancer, survival	Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most common malignant tumor in men. Currently, there are few prognosis indicators for predicting PCa outcomes and guiding treatments. Here, we perform comprehensive proteomic profiling of 918 tissue specimens from 306 Chinese patients with PCa using data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS). We identify over 10,000 proteins and define three molecular subtypes of PCa with significant clinical and proteomic differences. We develop a 16-protein panel that effectively predicts biochemical recurrence (BCR) for patients with PCa, which is validated in six published datasets and one additional 99-biopsy-sample cohort by targeted proteomics. Interestingly, this 16-protein panel effectively predicts BCR across different International Society of Urological Pathology (ISUP) grades and pathological stages and outperforms the D'Amico risk classification system in BCR prediction. Furthermore, double knockout of NUDT5 and SEPTIN8, two components from the 16-protein panel, significantly suppresses the PCa cells to proliferate, invade, and migrate, suggesting the combination of NUDT5 and SEPTIN8 may provide new approaches for PCa treatment.
PXD047855	39169123	Preliminary investigation on the impact of salty and sugary former foods on pig liver and plasma profiles using OMICS approaches. 	Evaluation of the impact of salty and sugary former food products-based diets on the serum peptidome of pigs	Peptidomics, nanoLC-MS/MS	Replacing cereals with food leftovers could reduce feed-food competition and keep nutrients and energy in the food chain. Former food products (FFPs) are industrial food leftovers no more intended for human but still suitable as alternative and sustainable feedstuffs for monogastric. In this study, omics approaches were applied to evaluate the impact of dietary FFPs on pig liver proteome and plasma peptidome. Thirty-six Swiss Large White male castrated pigs were randomly assigned to three dietary treatments [control (CTR), 30% CTR replaced with salty FFP (SA), 30% CTR replaced with sugary FFP (SU)] from the start of the growing phase (22.4 +/- 1.7 kg) until slaughtering (110 +/- 3 kg). The low number of differentially regulated proteins in each comparison matrix (SA/SU vs. CTR) and the lack of metabolic interaction indicated a marginal impact on hepatic lipid metabolism. The plasma peptidomics investigation showed low variability between the peptidome of the three dietary groups and identified three possible bioactive peptides in the SA group associated with anti-hypertension and vascular homeostasis regulation. To conclude, the limited modulation of liver proteome and plasma peptidome by the SA and SU diets strenghtened the idea of reusing FFPs as feed ingredients to make pig production more sustainable.
PXD051400	39169193	Catalytic asymmetric synthesis of meta benzene isosteres. 	Catalytic Asymmetric Synthesis of meta Benzene Isosteres	ABPP, Bioisosteres, Serine Hydrolase	Although aromatic rings are common elements in pharmaceutically active compounds, the presence of these motifs brings several liabilities with respect to the developability of a drug(1). Nonoptimal potency, metabolic stability, solubility and lipophilicity in pharmaceutical compounds can be improved by replacing aromatic rings with non-aromatic isosteric motifs(2). Moreover, whereas aromatic rings are planar and lack three-dimensionality, the binding pockets of most pharmaceutical targets are chiral. Thus, the stereochemical configuration of the isosteric replacements may offer an added opportunity to improve the affinity of derived ligands for target receptors. A notable impediment to this approach is the lack of simple and scalable catalytic enantioselective syntheses of candidate isosteres from readily available precursors. Here we present a previously unknown palladium-catalysed reaction that converts hydrocarbon-derived precursors to chiral boron-containing nortricyclanes and we show that the shape of these nortricyclanes makes them plausible isosteres for meta disubstituted aromatic rings. With chiral catalysts, the Pd-catalysed reaction can be accomplished in an enantioselective fashion and subsequent transformation of the boron group provides access to a broad array of structures. We also show that the incorporation of nortricyclanes into pharmaceutical motifs can result in improved biophysical properties along with stereochemistry-dependent activity. We anticipate that these features, coupled with the simple, inexpensive synthesis of the functionalized nortricyclane scaffold, will render this platform a useful foundation for the assembly of new biologically active agents.
PXD043277	39170456	Acetyl-proteome profiling revealed the role of lysine acetylation in erythromycin resistance of Staphylococcus aureus. 	Acetyl-proteome profiling of Staphylococcus aureus revealed lysine acetylation in bacterial antibiotic resistance	Staphylococcus aureus, antibiotic resistance, lysine acetylation, post-translational modification, ribosome	Background: Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), a prevalent human pathogen known for its propensity to cause severe infections, has exhibited a growing resistance to antibiotics. Lysine acetylation (Kac) is a dynamic and reversible protein post-translational modification (PTM), played important roles in various physiological functions. Recent studies have shed light on the involvement of Kac modification in bacterial antibiotic resistance. However, the precise relationship between Kac modification and antibiotic resistance in S. aureus remains inadequately comprehended. Methods: We compared the differential expression of acetylated proteins between erythromycin-resistant (Ery-R) and erythromycin-susceptible (Ery-S) strains of S. aureus by 4D label-free quantitative proteomics technology. Additionally, we employed motif analysis, functional annotation and PPI network to investigate the acetylome landscape and heterogeneity of S. aureus. Furthermore, polysome profiling experiments were performed to assess the translational status of ribosome. Results: 6791 Kac sites were identified on 1808 proteins in S. aureus, among which 1907 sites in 483 proteins were quantified. A total of 548 Kac sites on 316 acetylated proteins were differentially expressed by erythromycin pressure. The differentially acetylated proteins were primarily enriched in ribosome assembly, glycolysis and lysine biosynthesis. Bioinformatic analyses implied that Kac modification of ribosomal proteins may play an important role in erythromycin resistance of S. aureus. Western bolt and polysome profiling experiments indicated that the increased Kac levels of ribosomal proteins in the resistant strain may partially offset the inhibitory effect of erythromycin on ribosome function. Conclusions: Our findings confirm that Kac modification is related to erythromycin resistance in S. aureus and emphasize the potential roles of ribosomal proteins. These results expand our current knowledge of antibiotic resistance mechanisms, potentially guiding future research on PTM-mediated antibiotic resistance.
PXD054804	39172012	TCR-engineered T-cells directed against Ropporin-1 constitute a safe and effective treatment for triple-negative breast cancer. 	TCR-engineered T-cells directed against Ropporin-1 constitute a safe and effective treatment for triple-negative breast cancer in near-clinical models	T-cell receptor, adoptive T-cell therapy, cross-reactivity, epitopes, gene-engineering, immunopeptidomics, ropporin-1, triple negative breast cancer, tumor-restricted antigen	Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) shows an urgent need for new therapies. We discovered Ropporin-1 (ROPN1) as a target to treat TNBC with T-cells. ROPN1 showed high and homogenous expression in 90% of primary and metastatic TNBC but not in healthy tissues. HLA-A2-binding peptides were detected via immunopeptidomics and predictions and used to retrieve T-cell receptors (TCRs) from naive repertoires. Following gene introduction into T-cells and stringent selection, we retrieved a highly specific TCR directed against the epitope FLYTYIAKV that did not recognize non-cognate epitopes from alternative source proteins. Notably, this TCR mediated killing of three-dimensional tumoroids in vitro and tumor cells in vivo and outperformed standard-of-care drugs. Finally, the T-cell product expressing this TCR and manufactured using a clinical protocol fulfilled standard safety and efficacy assays. Collectively, we have identified and preclinically validated ROPN1 as a target and anti-ROPN1 TCR T-cells as a treatment for the vast majority of TNBC patients.
PXD024300	39172142	Comparative profiling of whole-cell and exosome samples reveals protein signatures that stratify breast cancer subtypes. 	Proteomic and pathway profiling of four Breast Cancer cell lines  exosomes	Biomarker discovery, Differentially-expressed proteins, breast cancer, exosomes, proteomic profile	Identifying novel breast cancer biomarkers will improve patient stratification, enhance therapeutic outcomes, and help develop non-invasive diagnostics. We compared the proteomic profiles of whole-cell and exosomal samples of representative breast cancer cell subtypes to evaluate the potential of extracellular vesicles as non-invasive disease biomarkers in liquid biopsies. Overall, differentially-expressed proteins in whole-cell and exosome samples (which included markers for invasion, metastasis, angiogenesis, and drug resistance) effectively discriminated subtypes; furthermore, our results confirmed that the proteomic profile of exosomes reflects breast cancer cell-of-origin, which underscores their potential as disease biomarkers. Our study will contribute to identifying biomarkers that support breast cancer patient stratification and developing novel therapeutic strategies. We include an open, interactive web tool to explore the data as a molecular resource that can explain the role of these protein signatures in breast cancer classification.
PXD054802	39173855	PP2A phosphatase regulatory subunit PPP2R3C is a new positive regulator of the hedgehog signaling pathway. 	PP2A Phosphatase Regulatory Subunit PPP2R3C is a New Positive Regulator of the Hedgehog Signaling Pathway	Gli, Hedgehog signaling, PP2A, PPP2R3C, phosphatases, phosphorylation	Cellular signaling pathways rely on posttranslational modifications (PTMs) to finely regulate protein functions, particularly transcription factors. The Hedgehog (Hh) signaling cascade, crucial for embryonic development and tissue homeostasis, is susceptible to aberrations that lead to developmental anomalies and various cancers. At the core of Hh signaling are Gli proteins, whose dynamic balance between activator (GliA) and repressor (GliR) states shapes cellular outcomes. Phosphorylation, orchestrated by multiple kinases, is pivotal in regulating Gli activity. While kinases in this context have been extensively studied, the role of protein phosphatases, particularly Protein Phosphatase 2A (PP2A), remains less explored. This study unveils a novel role for the B"gamma subunit of PP2A, PPP2R3C, in Hh signaling regulation. PPP2R3C interacts with Gli proteins, and its disruption reduces Hedgehog pathway activity as measured by reduced expression of Gli1/2 and Hh target genes upon Hh signaling activation, and reduced growth of a Hh signaling-dependent medulloblastoma cell line. Moreover, we establish an antagonistic connection between PPP2R3C and MEKK1 kinase in Gli protein phosphorylation, underscoring the intricate interplay between kinases and phosphatases in Hh signaling pathway. This study sheds light on the previously understudied role of protein phosphatases in Hh signaling and provides insights into their significance in cellular regulation.
PXD041306	39174559	Fermented food consumption modulates the oral microbiota. 	Comparison of the salivary proteome of rats after a fermented diet	Fermented food, ProteomeXchange project tag: Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP), Rat, Salivary proteome	Fermented food consumption is recommended for health and environmental purposes. While it is known to impact gut microbiota, further investigation is needed to establish connections with the oral microbiota. For this purpose, we investigated the effect of daily consumption of a model cheese containing 3 Lactic Acid Bacteria (LAB) species on the oral microbiota of rats following a 3-week diet. Cheese consumption transiently modifies the oral microbiota and leads to a transient persistence of LAB in the oral cavity of 1/3 of the animals. The origin of this variability was partly explained by an overrepresentation of salivary proteins involved in the response to oxidative stress in animals without LAB persistence. These findings highlight the significance of fermented foods in shaping the diversity of the oral microbiota. Additionally, they suggest that variations in the salivary proteome among individuals may influence the permissiveness of the oral microbiota towards exogenous microorganisms.
PXD043695	39174742	The Rubicon-WIPI axis regulates exosome biogenesis during ageing. 	LFQ of GFP-Trap IP-MS from MEF cells expressing GFP-Rubicon	GFP-Trap, MEF, Rubicon	Cells release intraluminal vesicles in multivesicular bodies as exosomes to communicate with other cells. Although recent studies suggest an intimate link between exosome biogenesis and autophagy, the detailed mechanism is not fully understood. Here we employed comprehensive RNA interference screening for autophagy-related factors and discovered that Rubicon, a negative regulator of autophagy, is essential for exosome release. Rubicon recruits WIPI2d to endosomes to promote exosome biogenesis. Interactome analysis of WIPI2d identified the ESCRT components that are required for intraluminal vesicle formation. Notably, we found that Rubicon is required for an age-dependent increase of exosome release in mice. In addition, small RNA sequencing of serum exosomes revealed that Rubicon determines the fate of exosomal microRNAs associated with cellular senescence and longevity pathways. Taken together, our current results suggest that the Rubicon-WIPI axis functions as a key regulator of exosome biogenesis and is responsible for age-dependent changes in exosome quantity and quality.
PXD051475	39176081	Proteomics profiling reveals lipid metabolism abnormalities during oogenesis in unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss. 	Proteomics Profiling Reveals Lipid Metabolism Abnormalities During Oogenesis in Unexplained Recurrent Pregnancy Loss	follicle fluid, recurrent pregnancy loss	Background: Unexplained recurrent pregnancy loss (URPL) is a clinical dilemma in reproductive fields. Its diagnosis is mainly exclusionary after extensive clinical examination, and some of the patients may still face the risk of miscarriage. Methods: We analyzed follicular fluid (FF) from in vitro fertilization (IVF) in eight patients with URPL without endocrine abnormalities or verifiable causes of abortion and eight secondary infertility controls with no history of pregnancy loss who had experienced at least one normal pregnancy and delivery by direct data-independent acquisition (dDIA) quantitative proteomics to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). In this study, bioinformatics analysis was performed using online software including g:profiler, String, and ToppGene. Cytoscape was used to construct the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network, and ELISA was used for validation. Results: Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis showed that the DEPs are involved in the biological processes (BP) of complement and coagulation cascades. Apolipoproteins (APOs) are key proteins in the PPI network. ELISA confirmed that APOB was low-expressed in both the FF and peripheral blood of URPL patients. Conclusion: Dysregulation of the immune network intersecting coagulation and inflammatory response is an essential feature of URPL, and this disequilibrium exists as early as the oogenesis stage. Therefore, earlier intervention is necessary to prevent the development of URPL. Moreover, aberrant lipoprotein regulation appears to be a key factor contributing to URPL. The mechanism by which these factors are involved in the complement and coagulation cascade pathways remains to be further investigated, which also provides new candidate targets for URPL treatment.
PXD051029	39177206	Unveiling Endogenous Serum Peptides as Potential Biomarkers for Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Patients with Liver Cirrhosis. 	Unveiling Endogenous Serum Peptides as Potential Biomarkers for Hepatocellular Carcinoma in Patients with Liver Cirrhosis	Biomarker, Endogenous Peptides, Liver cancer, Serum, nano-LC-MS/MS	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, mainly associated with liver cirrhosis. Current diagnostic methods for HCC have limited sensitivity and specificity, highlighting the need for improved early detection and intervention. In this study, we used a comprehensive approach involving endogenous peptidome along with bioinformatics analysis to identify and evaluate potential biomarkers for HCC. Serum samples from 40 subjects, comprising 20 HCC cases and 20 patients with liver cirrhosis (CIRR), were analyzed. Among 2568 endogenous peptides, 67 showed significant differential expression between the HCC vs CIRR. Further analysis revealed three endogenous peptides (VMHEALHNHYTQKSLSLSPG, NRFTQKSLSLSPG, and SARQSTLDKEL) that showed far better performance compared to AFP in terms of area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC), showcasing their potential as biomarkers for HCC. Additionally, endogenous peptide IAVEWESNGQPENNYKT that belongs to the precursor protein Immunoglobulin heavy constant gamma 4 was detected in 100% of the HCC group and completely absent in the CIRR group, suggesting a promising diagnostic biomarker. Gene ontology and pathway analysis revealed the potential involvement of these dysregulated peptides in HCC. These findings provide valuable insights into the molecular basis of HCC and may contribute to the development of improved diagnostic methods and therapeutic targets for HCC.
PXD053289	39177265	Immunoaffinity-free chromatographic purification of ovarian cancer biomarker CA125 (MUC16) from blood serum enables mass spectrometry characterization. 	Immunoaffinity-free chromatographic purification of ovarian cancer biomarker CA125 (MUC16) from blood serum	CA125, MUC16, ovarian, plasma	The enrichment of trace proteins from human fluid samples is of great importance in diverse clinical and industrial applications. In clinical diagnostics, such enrichment may enable detection of trace proteins that serve as biomarkers of disease. Affinity-based approaches, such as immunoaffinity pulldown, are widely used to enrich trace proteins, but this strategy relies on the availability and performance of antibodies that act on all proteoforms in an unbiased manner. Our prior work to characterize MUC16 (the mucin protein that carries the ovarian cancer biomarker CA125) by mass spectrometry successfully overcame the reliance on affinity-based enrichment and was used to enrich this biomarker from ascites of individual ovarian cancer patients, however, this strategy was not demonstrated on clinically relevant volumes of serum, a biofluid that is more accessible than ascites. The present work developed a non-affinity-based chromatographic method to enrich MUC16 from serum. The enriched MUC16 sample was further processed using a Midi Top 14 abundant protein depletion column. Peptides identified using bottom-up proteomics yielded 1-8% coverage of MUC16. Additionally, MUC16 was detected in samples containing less than the clinical cut-off level of CA125 (35 U mL(-1)), suggesting that this strategy of enrichment and bottom-up proteomics can enable analysis of CA125 from the serum of individuals with early-stage ovarian cancer and those whose tumors express CA125 (MUC16) at low levels.
PXD053264	39178254	The nuclear export protein XPO1 provides a peptide ligand for natural killer cells. 	The nuclear export protein XPO1 provides a peptide ligand for natural killer cells	HLA-C*0102, HUH7 cells, KIR2DS2, hepatocellular carcinoma, natural killer cells	XPO1 (Exportin-1/CRM1) is a nuclear export protein that is frequently overexpressed in cancer and functions as a driver of oncogenesis. Currently small molecules that target XPO1 are being used in the clinic as anticancer agents. We identify XPO1 as a target for natural killer (NK) cells. Using immunopeptidomics, we have identified a peptide derived from XPO1 that can be recognized by the activating NK cell receptor KIR2DS2 in the context of human leukocyte antigen-C. The peptide can be endogenously processed and presented to activate NK cells specifically through this receptor. Although high XPO1 expression in cancer is commonly associated with a poor prognosis, we show that the outcome of specific cancers, such as hepatocellular carcinoma, can be substantially improved if there is concomitant evidence of NK cell infiltration. We thus identify XPO1 as a bona fide tumor antigen recognized by NK cells that offers an opportunity for a personalized approach to NK cell therapy for solid tumors.
PXD049341	39178915	Function of CSNK2/CK2 selectively affects the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus in mtor-mediated autophagy induction. 	Function of CK2 selectively affects the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus in mTOR-mediated autophagy induction.	Compounds, GPRC, LC-MS, Multiplexed, TMTpro 18plex	Selective macroautophagy/autophagy of the endoplasmic reticulum, known as reticulophagy/ER-phagy, is essential to maintain ER homeostasis. We recently showed that members of the autophagy receptor family RETREG/FAM134 are regulated by phosphorylation-dependent ubiquitination. In an unbiased screen we had identified several kinases downstream of MTOR with profound impact on reticulophagy flux, including ATR and CSNK2/CK2. Inhibition of CSNK2 by SGC-CK2-1 prevented regulatory ubiquitination of RETREG1/FAM134B and RETREG3/FAM134C upon autophagy activation as well as the formation of high-density RETREG1- and RETREG3-clusters. Here we report on additional resource data of global proteomics upon CSNK2 and ATR inhibition, respectively. Our data suggests that the function of CSNK2 is mainly limited to the ER/reticulophagy and Golgi/Golgiphagy, while ATR inhibition by VE-822 affects the vast majority of organelles/selective autophagy pathways.
PXD053897	39179121	Nicotinamide riboside modulates the reactive species interactome, bioenergetic status and proteomic landscape in a brain-region-specific manner. 	Nicotinamide riboside modulates the reactive species interactome, bioenergetic status and proteomic landscape in a brain-region-specific manner	Alzheimer, Bioenergetics, Brain, Nicotinamine riboside, Stress, Treatment	Nicotinamide riboside (NR), a precursor of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+), has robust cognitive benefits and alleviates neuroinflammation in AD mouse models without decreasing beta-amyloid plaque pathology. Such effects may be mediated by the reactive species interactome (RSI), at the metabolome level. In this study, we employed in vitro and in vivo models of oxidative stress/aging/AD to profile the effects of NR on neuronal survival, RSI, and the whole proteome characterization of cortex and hippocampus. RSI analysis yielded a complex modulation upon NR treatment. We constructed protein co-expression networks and correlated them to NR treatment and all measured reactive species. We observed brain-area specific effects of NR on co-expressed protein modules of oxidative phosphorylation, fatty acid oxidation, and neurotransmitter regulation pathways, which correlated with RSI components. The current study contributes to the understanding of modulation of the metabolome, specifically after NR, in AD and how it may play disease-modifying roles.
PXD041995	39179507	EARLY NODULIN93 acts via cytochrome c oxidase to alter respiratory ATP production and root growth in plants. 	ENOD93 interacts with cytochrome c oxidase altering respiratory ATP production and root growth in plants - targeted analysis of peptides for mitochondrial proteins	ATP synthesis, Complex IV, Early nodulin 93, RCF2, mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation	EARLY NODULIN 93 (ENOD93) has been genetically associated with biological nitrogen fixation in legumes and nitrogen use efficiency in cereals, but its precise function is unknown. We show that hidden Markov models define ENOD93 as a homolog of the N-terminal domain of RESPIRATORY SUPERCOMPLEX FACTOR 2 (RCF2). RCF2 regulates cytochrome oxidase (CIV), influencing the generation of a mitochondrial proton motive force in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Knockout of ENOD93 in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) causes a short root phenotype and early flowering. ENOD93 is associated with a protein complex the size of CIV in mitochondria, but neither CIV abundance nor its activity changed in ruptured organelles of enod93. However, a progressive loss of ADP-dependent respiration rate was observed in intact enod93 mitochondria, which could be recovered in complemented lines. Mitochondrial membrane potential was higher in enod93 in a CIV-dependent manner, but ATP synthesis and ADP depletion rates progressively decreased. The respiration rate of whole enod93 seedlings was elevated, and root ADP content was nearly double that in wild type without a change in ATP content. We propose that ENOD93 and HYPOXIA-INDUCED GENE DOMAIN 2 (HIGD2) are the functional equivalent of yeast RCF2 but have remained undiscovered in many eukaryotic lineages because they are encoded by two distinct genes.
PXD047046	39179589	A repressive H3K36me2 reader mediates Polycomb silencing. 	Identification of Ash1 and N1617 interactors in Magnaporthe oryzae	Flag, GFP, Magnaporthe oryzae	In animals, evolutionarily conserved Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2) catalyzes histone H3 lysine 27 trimethylation (H3K27me3) and PRC1 functions in recruitment and transcriptional repression. However, the mechanisms underlying H3K27me3-mediated stable transcriptional silencing are largely unknown, as PRC1 subunits are poorly characterized in fungi. Here, we report that in the filamentous fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, the N-terminal chromodomain and C-terminal MRG domain of Eaf3 play key roles in facultative heterochromatin formation and transcriptional silencing. Eaf3 physically interacts with Ash1, Eed, and Sin3, encoding an H3K36 methyltransferase, the core subunit of PRC2, and a histone deacetylation co-suppressor, respectively. Eaf3 co-localizes with a set of repressive Ash1-H3K36me2 and H3K27me3 loci and mediates their transcriptional silencing. Furthermore, Eaf3 acts as a histone reader for the repressive H3K36me2 and H3K27me3 marks. Eaf3-occupied regions are associated with increased nucleosome occupancy, contributing to transcriptional silencing in M. oryzae. Together, these findings reveal that Eaf3 is a repressive H3K36me2 reader and plays a vital role in Polycomb gene silencing and the formation of facultative heterochromatin in fungi.
PXD047543	39180213	Next-generation mapping of the salicylic acid signaling hub and transcriptional cascade. 	Next generation mapping of the salicylic acid signaling hub and transcriptional cascade	NPR1-proxiome, Proximity labeling, TurboID	For over 60 years, salicylic acid (SA) has been known as a plant immune signal required for basal and systemic acquired resistance (SAR). SA activates these immune responses by reprogramming ~20% of the transcriptome through the function of NPR1. However, components in the NPR1-signaling hub, which appears as nuclear condensates, and the NPR1-signaling cascade remained elusive due to difficulties in studying this transcriptional cofactor whose chromatin association is indirect and likely transient. To overcome this challenge, we applied TurboID to divulge the NPR1-proxiome, which detected almost all known NPR1-interactors as well as new components of transcription-related complexes. Testing of new components showed that chromatin remodeling and histone demethylation contribute to SA-induced resistance. Globally, NPR1-proxiome shares a striking similarity to GBPL3-proxiome involved in SA synthesis, except associated transcription factors (TFs), suggesting that common regulatory modules are recruited to reprogram specific transcriptomes by transcriptional cofactors, like NPR1, through binding to unique TFs. Stepwise greenCUT&RUN analyses showed that, upon SA-induction, NPR1 initiates the transcriptional cascade primarily through association with TGA TFs to induce expression of secondary TFs, predominantly WRKYs. WRKY54 and WRKY70 then play a major role in inducing immune-output genes without interacting with NPR1 at the chromatin. Moreover, loss of NPR1 condensate formation decreases the protein's chromatin-association and transcriptional activity, indicating the importance of condensates in organizing the NPR1-signaling hub and initiating the transcriptional cascade. This study demonstrates how combinatorial applications of TurboID and stepwise greenCUT&RUN transcend traditional genetic methods to globally map signaling hubs and transcriptional cascades for in-depth explorations.
PXD046226	39181535	GRable version 1.0: A software tool for site-specific glycoform analysis with improved MS1-based glycopeptide detection with parallel clustering and confidence evaluation with MS2 information. 	Site-specific glycoform analysis of human AGP and HL-60 cell lysate by the Glyco-RIDGE method using GRable Version 1.0	AGP, HL-60, glycan heterogeneity, glycoproteomics, site-specific glycoform, software	High-throughput intact glycopeptide analysis is crucial for elucidating the physiological and pathological status of the glycans attached to each glycoprotein. Mass spectrometry-based glycoproteomic methods are challenging because of the diversity and heterogeneity of glycan structures. Therefore, we developed an MS1-based site-specific glycoform analysis method named "Glycan heterogeneity-based Relational IDentification of Glycopeptide signals on Elution profile (Glyco-RIDGE)" for a more comprehensive analysis. This method detects glycopeptide signals as a cluster based on the mass and chromatographic properties of glycopeptides and then searches for each combination of core peptides and glycan compositions by matching their mass and retention time differences. Here, we developed a novel browser-based software named GRable for semi-automated Glyco-RIDGE analysis with significant improvements in glycopeptide detection algorithms, including "parallel clustering." This unique function improved the comprehensiveness of glycopeptide detection and allowed the analysis to focus on specific glycan structures, such as pauci-mannose. The other notable improvement is evaluating the "confidence level" of the GRable results, especially using MS2 information. This function facilitated reduced misassignment of the core peptide and glycan composition and improved the interpretation of the results. Additional improved points of the algorithms are "correction function" for accurate monoisotopic peak picking; one-to-one correspondence of clusters and core peptides even for multiply sialylated glycopeptides; and "inter-cluster analysis" function for understanding the reason for detected but unmatched clusters. The significance of these improvements was demonstrated using purified and crude glycoprotein samples, showing that GRable allowed site-specific glycoform analysis of intact sialylated glycoproteins on a large-scale and in-depth. Therefore, this software will help us analyze the status and changes in glycans to obtain biological and clinical insights into protein glycosylation by complementing the comprehensiveness of MS2-based glycoproteomics. GRable can be freely run online using a web browser via the GlyCosmos Portal (https://glycosmos.org/grable).
PXD052998	39181896	Pramel15 facilitates zygotic nuclear DNMT1 degradation and DNA demethylation. 	Pramel15 facilitates zygotic nuclear DNMT1 degradation and DNA demethylation	Pramel15	In mammals, global passive demethylation contributes to epigenetic reprogramming during early embryonic development. At this stage, the majority of DNA-methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1) protein is excluded from nucleus, which is considered the primary cause. However, whether the remaining nuclear activity of DNMT1 is regulated by additional mechanisms is unclear. Here, we report that nuclear DNMT1 abundance is finetuned through proteasomal degradation in mouse zygotes. We identify a maternal factor, Pramel15, which targets DNMT1 for degradation via Cullin-RING E3 ligases. Loss of Pramel15 elevates DNMT1 levels in the zygote pronuclei, impairs zygotic DNA demethylation, and causes a stochastic gain of DNA methylation in early embryos. Thus, Pramel15 can modulate the residual level of DNMT1 in the nucleus during zygotic DNA replication, thereby ensuring efficient DNA methylation reprogramming in early embryos.
PXD050811	39181924	Mesenchymal stem cells from adipose tissue prone to lose their stemness associated markers in obesity related stress conditions. 	Mesenchymal Stem Cells of Adipose Tissue Prone to Lose Their Stemness in Obesity Associated Stress Conditions	Obesity, senescence, stemness	Obesity is a health problem characterized by large expansion of adipose tissue. During this expansion, genotoxic stressors can be accumulated and negatively affect the mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) of adipose tissue. Due to the oxidative stress generated by these genotoxic stressors, senescence phenotype might be observed in adipose tissue MSCs. Senescent MSCs lose their proliferations and differentiation properties and secrete senescence-associated molecules to their niche thus triggering senescence for the rest of the tissue. Accumulation of senescent cells in adipose tissue results in decreased tissue regeneration and functional impairment not only in the close vicinity but also in the other tissues. Here we hypothesized that declined tissue regeneration might be associated with loss of stemness markers in MSCs population. We analyzed the expression of several stemness-associated genes of in vitro cultured MSCs originated from adipose tissue of high-fat diet and normal diet mice models. Since the heterogenous MSCs population covers a small percentage of the pluripotent stem cells, which have roles in proliferation and tissue regeneration, we measured the percentage of these cells via TRA-1-60 pluripotent state antigen. Additionally, by conducting a shotgun proteomic approach using LC-MS/MS, whole cell proteome of the adipose tissue MSCs of high-fat diet and normal diet mice were analyzed and identified proteins were evaluated via gene ontology and PPI network analysis. MSCs of obese mice showed senescent phenotype and altered cell cycle distribution due to a hostile environment with oxidative stress in adipose tissue where they reside. Additionally, the number of pluripotent markers expressing cells declined in the MSC population of the high-fat diet mice. Gene expression analysis evidenced the loss of stemness with a decrease in the expression of stemness-associated genes. Of the proteomic comparison of the normal and the high-fat diet group, MSCs revealed that stemness-associated molecules were decreased while inflammation and senescence-associated phenotypes emerged in obese mice MSCs. Our results showed us that the MSCs of adipose tissue may lose their stemness properties due to obesity-associated stress conditions.
PXD046331	39184436	Mitochondrial translation is the primary determinant of secondary mitochondrial complex I deficiencies. 	Mitochondrial translation is the primary determinant of secondary mitochondrial complex I deficiencies	OXPHOS, biogenesis interdependency, complex I, complex IV, complex V, integrated stress response, mitochondria, mitochondrial protein synthesis, mitochondrial translation, secondary deficiency	Individual complexes of the mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation system (OXPHOS) are not linked solely by their function; they also share dependencies at the maintenance/assembly level, where one complex depends on the presence of a different individual complex. Despite the relevance of this "interdependence" behavior for mitochondrial diseases, its true nature remains elusive. To understand the mechanism that can explain this phenomenon, we examined the consequences of the aberration of different OXPHOS complexes in human cells. We demonstrate here that the complete disruption of each of the OXPHOS complexes resulted in a decrease in the complex I (cI) level and that the major reason for this is linked to the downregulation of mitochondrial ribosomal proteins. We conclude that the secondary cI defect is due to mitochondrial protein synthesis attenuation, while the responsible signaling pathways could differ based on the origin of the OXPHOS defect.
PXD029204	39187547	KHSRP ameliorates acute liver failure by regulating pre-mRNA splicing through its interaction with SF3B1. 	Protein profiles of ACUTE liver injury in mice mediated by CCl4 or APAP	ACUTE liver, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP)	Acute liver failure (ALF) is characterized by the rapidly progressive deterioration of hepatic function, which, without effective medical intervention, results in high mortality and morbidity. Here, using proteomic and transcriptomic analyses in murine ALF models, we found that the expression of multiple splicing factors was downregulated in ALF. Notably, we found that KH-type splicing regulatory protein (KHSRP) has a protective effect in ALF. Knockdown of KHSRP resulted in dramatic splicing defects, such as intron retention, and led to the exacerbation of liver injury in ALF. Moreover, we demonstrated that KHSRP directly interacts with splicing factor 3b subunit 1 (SF3B1) and enhances the binding of SF3B1 to the intronic branch sites, thereby promoting pre-mRNA splicing. Using splicing inhibitors, we found that Khsrp protects against ALF by regulating pre-mRNA splicing in vivo. Overall, our findings demonstrate that KHSRP is an important splicing activator and promotes the expression of genes associated with ALF progression by interacting with SF3B1; thus, KHSRP could be a possible target for therapeutic intervention in ALF.
PXD052543	39187982	Ubiquitination plays an important role during the formation of chicken primordial germ cells. 	Chicken embryonic stem cell/primordial germ cell LC-MSMS	Chicken, Embryonic stem cell, Primordial germ cell	As an important post-translational modification, ubiquitination plays an important role in regulating protein homeostasis in eukaryotic cells. In our previous studies, both the transcriptome and proteome suggested that ubiquitination is involved in the formation of chicken primordial germ cells (PGCs). Here, affinity enrichment combined with liquid chromatography (LC)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) was used to analyze the ubiquitome during the differentiation from embryonic stem cells (ESCs) to PGCs, and we identify that 724 lysine ubiquitinated sites were up-regulated in 558 proteins and 138 lysine ubiquitinated sites were down-regulated in 109 proteins. Furthermore, GO and KEGG enrichment analysis showed that ubiquitination regulates key proteins to participate in the progression of key events related to PGC formation and the transduction of key signals such as Wnt, MAPK and Insulin signals, followed by the detailed explanation of the specific regulatory mechanism of ubiquitination through the combined proteome and ubiquitome analysis. Moreover, both the activation and inhibition of neddylation were detrimental to the maintenance of the biological characteristics of PGCs, which also verified the importance of ubiquitination. In conclusion, this study provides a global view of the ubiquitome during the formation of PGCs by label-free quantitative ubiquitomics, which lays a theoretical foundation for the formation mechanism and specific application of chicken PGCs.
PXD048205	39188014	MUT-7 exoribonuclease activity and localization are mediated by an ancient domain. 	MUT-7 exoribonuclease activity and localisation are mediated by an ancient domain	MUT-7, MUT-8, MUT7-C, Mutator complex, RDE-2	The MUT-7 family of 3'-5' exoribonucleases is evolutionarily conserved across the animal kingdom and plays essential roles in small RNA production in the germline. Most MUT-7 homologues carry a C-terminal domain of unknown function named MUT7-C appended to the exoribonuclease domain. Our analysis shows that the MUT7-C is evolutionary ancient, as a minimal version of the domain exists as an individual protein in prokaryotes. In animals, MUT7-C has acquired an insertion that diverged during evolution, expanding its functions. Caenorhabditis elegans MUT-7 contains a specific insertion within MUT7-C, which allows binding to MUT-8 and, consequently, MUT-7 recruitment to germ granules. In addition, in C. elegans and human MUT-7, the MUT7-C domain contributes to RNA binding and is thereby crucial for ribonuclease activity. This RNA-binding function most likely represents the ancestral function of the MUT7-C domain. Overall, this study sheds light on MUT7-C and assigns two functions to this previously uncharacterized domain.
PXD049038	39188312	Genes for laminarin degradation are dispersed in the genomes of particle-associated Maribacter species. 	Genes for laminarin degradation are dispersed in the genomes of particle-associated Maribacter forsetii DSM 18668T	Flavobacteriia	Laminarin is a cytosolic storage polysaccharide of phytoplankton and macroalgae and accounts for over 10% of the world's annually fixed carbon dioxide. Algal disruption, for example, by viral lysis releases laminarin. The soluble sugar is rapidly utilized by free-living planktonic bacteria, in which sugar transporters and the degrading enzymes are frequently encoded in polysaccharide utilization loci. The annotation of flavobacterial genomes failed to identify canonical laminarin utilization loci in several particle-associated bacteria, in particular in strains of Maribacter. In this study, we report in vivo utilization of laminarin by Maribacter forsetii accompanied by additional cell growth and proliferation. Laminarin utilization coincided with the induction of an extracellular endo-laminarinase, SusC/D outer membrane oligosaccharide transporters, and a periplasmic glycosyl hydrolase family 3 protein. An ABC transport system and sugar kinases were expressed. Endo-laminarinase activity was also observed in Maribacter sp. MAR_2009_72, Maribacter sp. Hel_I_7, and Maribacter dokdonensis MAR_2009_60. Maribacter dokdonensis MAR_2009_71 lacked the large endo-laminarinase gene in the genome and had no endo-laminarinase activity. In all genomes, genes of induced proteins were scattered across the genome rather than clustered in a laminarin utilization locus. These observations revealed that the Maribacter strains investigated in this study participate in laminarin utilization, but in contrast to many free-living bacteria, there is no co-localization of genes encoding the enzymatic machinery for laminarin utilization.
PXD044649	39189262	The Low-Abundance Plasma Proteome Reveals Differentially Abundant Proteins Associated with Breast Implant Capsular Contracture: A Pilot Study. 	The low abundance plasma proteome reveals changes associ-ated with breast implant capsular contracture	Breast implants, TMT, capsular contracture, human plasma	Capsular contracture (CC) is one of the most common postoperative complications associated with breast implant-associated infections. The mechanisms that lead to CC remain poorly understood. Plasma is an ideal biospecimen for early proteomics biomarker discovery. However, as high-abundance proteins mask signals from low-abundance proteins, identifying novel or specific proteins as biomarkers for a particular disease has been hampered. Here, we employed depletion of high-abundance plasma proteins followed by Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics to compare 10 healthy control patients against 10 breast implant CC patients. A total of 450 proteins were identified from these samples. Among them, 16 proteins were significantly differentially expressed in which 5 proteins were upregulated and 11 downregulated in breast implant CC patients compared to healthy controls. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis revealed that proteins related to cell, cellular processes and catalytic activity were highest in the cellular component, biological process, and molecular function categories, respectively. Further, pathway analysis revealed that inflammatory responses, focal adhesion, platelet activation, and complement and coagulation cascades were enriched pathways. The differentially abundant proteins from TMT-based quantitative proteomics have the potential to provide important information for future mechanistic studies and in the development of breast implant CC biomarkers.
PXD051163	39190991	Novel insights into the mechanisms of seasonal cyclicity of testicles by proteomics and transcriptomics analyses in goose breeder lines. 	Hungarian white goose testis proteomics	Hungarian white goose, testis	Spermatogenesis is a crucial indicator of geese reproduction performance and production. The testis is the main organ responsible for sperm production, and the egg-laying cycle in geese is a complex physiological process that demands precise orchestration of hormonal cues and cellular events within the testes, however, the seasonal changes in the transcriptomic and proteomic profiles of goose testicles remain unclear. To explore various aspects of the mechanisms of the seasonal cyclicity of testicles in different goose breeds, in this study, we used an integrative transcriptomic and proteomic approach to screen the key genes and proteins in the testes of 2 goose males, the Hungarian white goose and the Wanxi white goose, at 3 different periods of the laying cycle: beginning of laying cycle (BLC), peak of laying cycle (PLC), and end of laying cycle (ELC). The results showed that a total of 9,273 differentially expressed genes and 4,543 differentially expressed proteins were identified in the geese testicles among the comparison groups. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis suggested that the DEGs, in the comparison groups, were mainly enrichment in metabolic pathways, neuroactive ligand-receptor interaction, cyctokine-cyctokine receptor interaction, calcium signaling pathway, apelin signaling pathway, ether lipid metabolism, cysteine, and methionine metabolism. While the DEPs, in the 3 comparison groups, were mainly involved in the ribosome, metabolic pathways, carbon metabolism, proteasome, endocytosis, lysosome, regulation of actin cytoskeleton, oxidative phosphorylation, nucleocytoplasmic transport, and tight junction. The protein-protein interaction network analysis (PPI) indicated that selected DEPs, such as CHD1L, RAB18, FANCM, TAF5, TSC1/2, PHLDB2, DNAJA2, NCOA5, DEPTOR, TJP1, and RAPGEF2, were highly associated with male reproductive regulation. Further, the expression trends of 4 identified DEGs were validated by qRT-PCR. In conclusion, this work offers a new perspective on comprehending the molecular mechanisms and pathways involved in the seasonal cyclicity of testicles in the Hungarian white goose and the Wanxi white goose, as well as contributing to improving goose reproductive performance.
PXD051352	39191251	tRNA-m(1)A methylation controls the infection of Magnaporthe oryzae by supporting ergosterol biosynthesis. 	tRNA-m1A Methylation Regulates the Infection of Magnaporthe oryzae by Supporting Ergosterol Biosynthesis	Magnaporthe oryzae, ergosterol biosynthesis, fungal pathogens, m1A methylation, tRNA modification, translational regulation	Ergosterols are essential components of fungal plasma membranes. Inhibitors targeting ergosterol biosynthesis (ERG) genes are critical for controlling fungal pathogens, including Magnaporthe oryzae, the fungus that causes rice blast. However, the translational mechanisms governing ERG gene expression remain largely unexplored. Here, we show that the Trm6/Trm61 complex catalyzes dynamic N(1)-methyladenosine at position 58 (m(1)A58) in 51 transfer RNAs (tRNAs) of M. oryzae, significantly influencing translation at both the initiation and elongation stages. Notably, tRNA m(1)A58 promotes elongation speed at most cognate codons mainly by enhancing eEF1-tRNA binding rather than affecting tRNA abundance or charging. The absence of m(1)A58 leads to substantial decreases in the translation of ERG genes, ergosterol production, and, consequently, fungal virulence. Simultaneously targeting the Trm6/Trm61 complex and the ergosterol biosynthesis pathway markedly improves rice blast control. Our findings demonstrate an important role of m(1)A58-mediated translational regulation in ergosterol production and fungal infection, offering a potential strategy for fungicide development.
PXD053733	39192718	Ultrafast and Chemoselective Biotinylation of Living Cell Surfaces for Time-Resolved Surfaceome Analysis. 	Ultrafast and Chemoselective Biotinylation of Living Cell  Surface for Time-Resolved Surfaceome Analysis - final	EGF, OPA, surfaceome	Cell surface proteins participate in many important biological processes, such as cell-to-cell interaction, signal transduction, cell adhesion, and protein transportation. In-depth study of the cell surface protein group is of great significance. Nevertheless, detection and analysis of the surfaceome remain a significant challenge due to their low abundance and hydrophobicity. Herein, we reported an ultrafast and chemoselective labeling method using our newly developed trifunctional probe, the OPA-S-S-alkyne, which labeled cell surface lysine residues, and then established a novel cell surfaceome profiling approach. According to our experimental results, the OPA-S-S-alkyne probe can react extremely fast with living cells, labeling cells in only 1 min, while traditional NHS (labeling cell surface lysine with N-hydroxysuccinimide ester probe) and CSC (labeling cell surface glycan with hydrazide biotin probe) methods normally take longer time of more than 30 min and 1 h, respectively. Taking advantage of this ultrafast property of the method, we highlight the utility of this method by exploring the temporal dynamic changes of surfaceome upon EGF stimulation in living Hela cells and reported "early" and "late" EGF-regulated cell surface proteins, which are difficult to be distinguished by the current cell surface profiling approaches.
PXD053128	39193502	The immune factors involved in the rapid clearance of bacteria from the midgut of the tick Ixodes ricinus. 	The immune factors involved in the rapid clearance of bacteria from the midgut of the tick Ixodes ricinus	Ixodes, Micrococcus luteus, Tick, antimicrobial peptide, defensin, immune system, midgut microbiome	Ticks are obligate hematophagous arthropods that transmit a wide range of pathogens to humans as well as wild and domestic animals. They also harbor a non-pathogenic microbiota, although our previous study has shown that the diverse bacterial microbiome in the midgut of Ixodes ricinus is quantitatively poor and lacks a core. In artificial infections by capillary feeding of ticks with two model bacteria (Gram-positive Micrococcus luteus and Gram-negative Pantoea sp.), rapid clearance of these microbes from the midgut was observed, indicating the presence of active immune mechanisms in this organ. In the current study, RNA-seq analysis was performed on the midgut of I. ricinus females inoculated with either M. luteus or Pantoea sp. or with sterile water as a control. While no immune-related transcripts were upregulated by microbial inoculation compared to that of the sterile control, capillary feeding itself triggered dramatic transcriptional changes in the tick midgut. Manual curation of the transcriptome from the midgut of unfed I. ricinus females, complemented by the proteomic analysis, revealed the presence of several constitutively expressed putative antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) that are independent of microbial stimulation and are referred to here as 'guard' AMPs. These included two types of midgut-specific defensins, two different domesticated amidase effector 2 (Dae2), microplusin/ricinusin-related molecules, two lysozymes, and two gamma interferon-inducible lysosomal thiol reductases (GILTs). The in vitro antimicrobial activity assays of two synthetic mature defensins, defensin 1 and defensin 8, confirmed their specificity against Gram-positive bacteria showing exceptional potency to inhibit the growth of M. luteus at nanomolar concentrations. The antimicrobial activity of midgut defensins is likely part of a multicomponent system responsible for the rapid clearance of bacteria in the tick midgut. Further studies are needed to evaluate the role of other identified 'guard' AMPs in controlling microorganisms entering the tick midgut.
PXD052045	39194224	N-linked protein glycosylation in Nanobdellati (formerly DPANN) archaea and their hosts. 	Whole-cell proteome of Metallosphaera javensis strain AS-7	archaea, whole-cell proteome	Members of the kingdom Nanobdellati, previously known as DPANN archaea, are characterized by ultrasmall cell sizes and reduced genomes. They primarily thrive through ectosymbiotic interactions with specific hosts in diverse environments. Recent successful cultivations have emphasized the importance of adhesion to host cells for understanding the ecophysiology of Nanobdellati. Cell adhesion is often mediated by cell surface carbohydrates, and in archaea, this may be facilitated by the glycosylated S-layer protein that typically coats their cell surface. In this study, we conducted glycoproteomic analyses on two co-cultures of Nanobdellati with their host archaea, as well as on pure cultures of both host and non-host archaea. Nanobdellati exhibited various glycoproteins, including archaellins and hypothetical proteins, with glycans that were structurally distinct from those of their hosts. This indicated that Nanobdellati autonomously synthesize their glycans for protein modifications probably using host-derived substrates, despite the high energy cost. Glycan modifications on Nanobdellati proteins consistently occurred on asparagine residues within the N-X-S/T sequon, consistent with patterns observed across archaea, bacteria, and eukaryotes. In both host and non-host archaea, S-layer proteins were commonly modified with hexose, N-acetylhexosamine, and sulfonated deoxyhexose. However, the N-glycan structures of host archaea, characterized by distinct sugars such as deoxyhexose, nonulosonate sugar, and pentose at the nonreducing ends, were implicated in enabling Nanobdellati to differentiate between host and non-host cells. Interestingly, the specific sugar, xylose, was eliminated from the N-glycan in a host archaeon when co-cultured with Nanobdella. These findings enhance our understanding of the role of protein glycosylation in archaeal interactions.IMPORTANCENanobdellati archaea, formerly known as DPANN, are phylogenetically diverse, widely distributed, and obligately ectosymbiotic. The molecular mechanisms by which Nanobdellati recognize and adhere to their specific hosts remain largely unexplored. Protein glycosylation, a fundamental biological mechanism observed across all domains of life, is often crucial for various cell-cell interactions. This study provides the first insights into the glycoproteome of Nanobdellati and their host and non-host archaea. We discovered that Nanobdellati autonomously synthesize glycans for protein modifications, probably utilizing substrates derived from their hosts. Additionally, we identified distinctive glycosylation patterns that suggest mechanisms through which Nanobdellati differentiate between host and non-host cells. This research significantly advances our understanding of the molecular basis of microbial interactions in extreme environments.
PXD051767	39194497	Acetylome Analyses Provide New Insights into the Effect of Chronic Intermittent Hypoxia on Hypothalamus-Dependent Endocrine Metabolism Impairment. 	Acetylome analyses provide new insights into the effect of chronic intermittent hypoxia on hypothalamus-dependent endocrine metabolism impairment	Paediatric obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA)., chronic intermittent hypoxia, endocrine metabolism, hypothalamus, lysine acetylation	Paediatric obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a highly prevalent sleep disorder resulting in chronic intermittent hypoxia (CIH) that has been linked to metabolism and endocrine impairment. Protein acetylation, which is a frequently occurring posttranslational modification, plays pivotal roles in the regulation of hypothalamic processes. However, the effects of CIH-induced global protein acetylation on hypothalamic function and endocrine metabolism remain poorly understood. To bridge this knowledge gap, we conducted a study utilizing liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to analyse the lysine acetylome and proteome of the hypothalamus in healthy infantile mice exposed to 3 weeks of intermittent hypoxia (as a CIH model) compared to normoxic mice (as controls). Our analysis identified and quantified 2699 Kac sites in 2453 proteins. These acetylated proteins exhibited disruptions primarily in endocrine metabolism, the citrate cycle (TCA cycle), synapse function, and circadian entrainment. Additionally, we observed significant down-regulation of proteins that are known to be involved in endocrine hormone secretion. This study aimed to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying CIH-induced alterations in protein acetylation within the hypothalamus. By providing valuable insights into the pathophysiological processes associated with CIH and their impacts on hypothalamic function, our findings contribute to a deeper understanding of the consequences stemming from CIH-induced changes in protein acetylation within the hypothalamus as well as its potential role in endocrine impairment.
PXD053228	39195200	Analysis of Cytotoxic Granules and Constitutively Produced Extracellular Vesicles from Large Granular Lymphocytic Leukemia Cell Lines. 	Analysis of extracellular vesicles from large granular lymphocytic leukemia cell lines	LC-MS, LGLL, Label-free, MOTN-1, NKL, exosomes	BACKGROUND: Large granular lymphocyte leukemias (LGLLs) are rare lymphoproliferative malignancies caused by clonal expansion of granular lymphocytes. T-cell LGLL and natural killer (NK) cell LGLL are defined based on their cellular origin. Their clinical manifestation and pathophysiology vary depending on the subtype and include, e.g., neutropenia, anemia, recurrent infections, and autoimmunity. A limited number of available patient-derived cell lines are considered valuable tools to study the biology of these malignancies. They differ in the expression of lineage-specific surface markers, but generally contain cytotoxic effector molecules in characteristic granules. METHODS: We investigated the presence and release of lysosome-associated effector proteins in patient-derived LGLL cell lines by flow and imaging cytometry, by Western blotting and by bottom-up proteomics profiling. RESULTS: The tested cell lines did not express FasL (CD178), but did express CD26/DPP4(+). Intracellularly, we detected major differences in the abundance and subcellular distribution of granzymes, perforin, and granulysin. Similar differences were seen in enriched lysosome-related effector vesicles (LREVs). The proteomics profiling of enriched EVs from an NK-LGLL line (NKL) and a T-LGLL line (MOTN-1), confirmed individual profiles of effector molecules. CONCLUSION: Our analyses underscore the individual distribution of effector proteins but also open new routes to define the role of intra- and extracellular granules in the disease manifestation or pathology of LGLLs.
PXD050863	39195201	Combined High-Throughput Proteomics and Random Forest Machine-Learning Approach Differentiates and Classifies Metabolic, Immune, Signaling and ECM Intra-Tumor Heterogeneity of Colorectal Cancer. 	High-throughput proteomics and statistical approach identify a protein panel of potential biomarkers of colorectal cancer categorizing intra-tumoral heterogeneity	Colorectal cancer, biomarkers	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a frequent, worldwide tumor described for its huge complexity, including inter-/intra-heterogeneity and tumor microenvironment (TME) variability. Intra-tumor heterogeneity and its connections with metabolic reprogramming and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) were investigated with explorative shotgun proteomics complemented by a Random Forest (RF) machine-learning approach. Deep and superficial tumor regions and distant-site non-tumor samples from the same patients (n = 16) were analyzed. Among the 2009 proteins analyzed, 91 proteins, including 23 novel potential CRC hallmarks, showed significant quantitative changes. In addition, a 98.4% accurate classification of the three analyzed tissues was obtained by RF using a set of 21 proteins. Subunit E1 of 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase (OGDH-E1) was the best classifying factor for the superficial tumor region, while sorting nexin-18 and coatomer-beta protein (beta-COP), implicated in protein trafficking, classified the deep region. Down- and up-regulations of metabolic checkpoints involved different proteins in superficial and deep tumors. Analogously to immune checkpoints affecting the TME, cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix (ECM) dynamics were crucial for EMT. Galectin-3, basigin, S100A9, and fibronectin involved in TME-CRC-ECM crosstalk were found to be differently variated in both tumor regions. Different metabolic strategies appeared to be adopted by the two CRC regions to uncouple the Krebs cycle and cytosolic glucose metabolism, promote lipogenesis, promote amino acid synthesis, down-regulate bioenergetics in mitochondria, and up-regulate oxidative stress. Finally, correlations with the Dukes stage and budding supported the finding of novel potential CRC hallmarks and therapeutic targets.
PXD039256	39195920	The VE-cadherin/AmotL2 mechanosensory pathway suppresses aortic inflammation and the formation of abdominal aortic aneurysms. 	The VE-cadherin/AmotL2 mechanosensory pathway suppresses aortic inflammation and the formation of abdominal aortic aneurysms	AmotL2, abdominal aortic aneurysms, mechanotransduction	Endothelial cells respond to mechanical forces exerted by blood flow. Endothelial cell-cell junctions and the sites of endothelial adhesion to the matrix sense and transmit mechanical forces to the cellular cytoskeleton. Here we show that the scaffold protein AmotL2 connects junctional VE-cadherin and actin filaments to the nuclear lamina. AmotL2 is essential for the formation of radial actin filaments and the alignment of endothelial cells, and, in its absence, nuclear integrity and positioning are altered. Molecular analysis demonstrated that VE-cadherin binds to AmotL2 and actin, resulting in a cascade that transmits extracellular mechanical signals to the nuclear membrane. Furthermore, the endothelial deficit of AmotL2 in mice fed normal diet provoked a pro-inflammatory response and abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs). Transcriptome analysis of human AAA samples revealed a negative correlation between AmotL2 and inflammation of the aortic intima. These findings offer insight into the link between junctional mechanotransduction and vascular disease.
PXD050578	39196068	Lactylation stabilizes TFEB to elevate autophagy and lysosomal activity. 	Lactylation stabilizes TFEB to elevate autophagy and lysosomal activity	Lactylation, TFEB	The transcription factor TFEB is a major regulator of lysosomal biogenesis and autophagy. There is growing evidence that posttranslational modifications play a crucial role in regulating TFEB activity. Here, we show that lactate molecules can covalently modify TFEB, leading to its lactylation and stabilization. Mechanically, lactylation at K91 prevents TFEB from interacting with E3 ubiquitin ligase WWP2, thereby inhibiting TFEB ubiquitination and proteasome degradation, resulting in increased TFEB activity and autophagy flux. Using a specific antibody against lactylated K91, enhanced TFEB lactylation was observed in clinical human pancreatic cancer samples. Our results suggest that lactylation is a novel mode of TFEB regulation and that lactylation of TFEB may be associated with high levels of autophagy in rapidly proliferating cells, such as cancer cells.
PXD052716	39196537	Mitigating In-Column Artificial Modifications in High-Temperature LC-MS for Bottom-Up Proteomics and Quality Control of Protein Biopharmaceuticals. 	Mitigating in-column artificial modification in HTLC for bottom-up proteomics and quality control of biopharmaceuticals	artifacts, biopharmaceuticals, bottom-up proteomics, column temperature, high-temperature liquid chromatography, trap column	Elevating the column temperature is an effective strategy for improving the chromatographic separation of peptides. However, high temperatures induce artificial modifications that compromise the quality of the peptide analysis. Here, we present a novel high-temperature LC-MS method that retains the benefits of a high column temperature while significantly reducing peptide modification and degradation during reversed-phase liquid chromatography. Our approach leverages a short inline trap column maintained at a near-ambient temperature installed upstream of a separation column. The retentivity and dimensions of the trap column were optimized to shorten the residence time of peptides in the heated separation column without compromising the separation performance. This easy-to-implement approach increased peak capacity by 1.4-fold within a 110 min peptide mapping of trastuzumab and provided 10% more peptide identifications in exploratory LC-MS proteomic analyses compared with analyses conducted at 30 degreesC while maintaining the extent of modifications close to the background level. In the peptide mapping of biopharmaceuticals, where in-column modifications can falsely elevate the levels of some critical quality attributes, the method reduced temperature-related artifacts by 66% for N-terminal pyroGlu and 63% for oxidized Met compared to direct injection at 60 degreesC, thus improving reliability in quality control of protein drugs. Our findings represent a promising advancement in LC-MS methodology, providing researchers and industry professionals with a valuable tool for improving the chromatographic separation of peptides while significantly reducing the unwanted modifications.
PXD044347	39198387	Inhibition of TOPORS ubiquitin ligase augments the efficacy of DNA hypomethylating agents through DNMT1 stabilization. 	MS data on ubiquitinated proteins	ubiquitination	DNA hypomethylating agents (HMAs) are used for the treatment of myeloid malignancies, although their therapeutic effects have been unsatisfactory. Here we show that CRISPR-Cas9 screening reveals that knockout of topoisomerase 1-binding arginine/serine-rich protein (TOPORS), which encodes a ubiquitin/SUMO E3 ligase, augments the efficacy of HMAs on myeloid leukemic cells with little effect on normal hematopoiesis, suggesting that TOPORS is involved in resistance to HMAs. HMAs are incorporated into the DNA and trap DNA methyltransferase-1 (DNMT1) to form DNA-DNMT1 crosslinks, which undergo SUMOylation, followed by proteasomal degradation. Persistent crosslinking is cytotoxic. The TOPORS RING finger domain, which mediates ubiquitination, is responsible for HMA resistance. In TOPORS knockout cells, DNMT1 is stabilized by HMA treatment due to inefficient ubiquitination, resulting in the accumulation of unresolved SUMOylated DNMT1. This indicates that TOPORS ubiquitinates SUMOylated DNMT1, thereby promoting the resolution of DNA-DNMT1 crosslinks. Consistently, the ubiquitination inhibitor, TAK-243, and the SUMOylation inhibitor, TAK-981, show synergistic effects with HMAs through DNMT1 stabilization. Our study provides a novel HMA-based therapeutic strategy that interferes with the resolution of DNA-DNMT1 crosslinks.
PXD049692	39198643	Fibrin drives thromboinflammation and neuropathology in COVID-19. 	Phosphoproteomics of Natural Killer (NK) Cells Stimulated with Fibrin and IL-15	NK cells, Phoshoproteomics, timsTOF HT	Life-threatening thrombotic events and neurological symptoms are prevalent in COVID-19 and are persistent in patients with long COVID experiencing post-acute sequelae of SARS-CoV-2 infection(1-4). Despite the clinical evidence(1,5-7), the underlying mechanisms of coagulopathy in COVID-19 and its consequences in inflammation and neuropathology remain poorly understood and treatment options are insufficient. Fibrinogen, the central structural component of blood clots, is abundantly deposited in the lungs and brains of patients with COVID-19, correlates with disease severity and is a predictive biomarker for post-COVID-19 cognitive deficits(1,5,8-10). Here we show that fibrin binds to the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, forming proinflammatory blood clots that drive systemic thromboinflammation and neuropathology in COVID-19. Fibrin, acting through its inflammatory domain, is required for oxidative stress and macrophage activation in the lungs, whereas it suppresses natural killer cells, after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Fibrin promotes neuroinflammation and neuronal loss after infection, as well as innate immune activation in the brain and lungs independently of active infection. A monoclonal antibody targeting the inflammatory fibrin domain provides protection from microglial activation and neuronal injury, as well as from thromboinflammation in the lung after infection. Thus, fibrin drives inflammation and neuropathology in SARS-CoV-2 infection, and fibrin-targeting immunotherapy may represent a therapeutic intervention for patients with acute COVID-19 and long COVID.
PXD053930	39200520	Performance of Different Saccharomyces Strains on Secondary Fermentation during the Production of Beer. 	Bottle conditioning - yeast strain	Beer, Bottle conditioning, LC-MS, Saccharomyces cerevisiae	Bottle conditioning of beer is an additional fermentation step where yeast and fermentable extract are added to the beer for carbonation. During this process, yeast must overcome environmental stresses to ensure sufficient fermentation in the bottle. Additionally, the yeast must be able to survive for a prolonged time, as a decline in viability will lead to alterations in the product. Here, we investigated the effects of bottle conditioning on beer using six different yeast strains from the brewing, wine making, and distilling industries over 120 days. The ale and lager strains resulted in a beer possessing typical characteristics of a pale ale-style beer, whereas sparkling wine and distilling yeast strains resulted in aromas that were uncharacteristic, which was expected. In addition, we observed that the various strains had different propensities to survive during bottle conditioning. Proteomic analysis was performed to ascertain protein abundance changes and reveal biological processes that potentially enabled specific yeast strains to survive longer during secondary fermentation. Our results showed that proteins associated with oxidoreductase activity and mitochondrial ribosomes were increased in the yeast strain with superior survival and were able to respond to cellular stress more effectively, whereas proteins associated with cell wall modulation were increased in the strain with poor survival characteristics. Overall, we demonstrated the impact of yeast selection on bottle conditioning and the biological processes involved in yeast physiology under these conditions.
PXD048096	39201288	Focal Adhesion Maturation Responsible for Behavioral Changes in Human Corneal Stromal Fibroblasts on Fibrillar Substrates. 	Impact of fibrillar collagen scaffold on corneal stromal fibroblasts protein expression	DDA-PASEF, TimsToF Pro, corneal keratocytes, extracellular matrix, fibrillar collagen scaffold, focal adhesion	The functioning of the human cornea heavily relies on the maintenance of its extracellular matrix (ECM) mechanical properties. Within this context, corneal stromal fibroblasts (CSFs) are essential, as they are responsible for remodeling the corneal ECM. In this study, we used a decellularized human amniotic membrane (dHAM) and a custom fibrillar collagen film (FCF) to explore the effects of fibrillar materials on human CSFs. Our findings indicate that substrates like FCF can enhance the early development of focal adhesions (FAs), leading to the activation and propagation of mechanotransduction signals. This is primarily achieved through FAK autophosphorylation and YAP1 nuclear translocation pathways. Remarkably, inhibiting FAK autophosphorylation negated the observed changes. Proteome analysis further confirmed the central role of FAs in mechanotransduction propagation in CSFs cultured on FCF. This analysis also highlighted complex signaling pathways, including chromatin epigenetic modifications, in response to fibrillar substrates. Overall, our research highlights the potential pathways through which CSFs undergo behavioral changes when exposed to fibrillar substrates, identifying FAs as essential mechanotransducers.
PXD053558	39201622	Antifungal Synergy: Mechanistic Insights into the R-1-R Peptide and Bidens pilosa Extract as Potent Therapeutics against Candida spp. through Proteomics. 	Antifungal Synergy: Mechanistic Insights into the R-1-R Peptide and Bidens pilosa Extract as Potent Therapeutics against Candida spp. through Proteomics	Bidens pilosa, Bovine lactoferricin peptides, Candida albicans, ROS, antifungal resistance., disfunction mitochondrial	Previous reports have demonstrated that the peptide derived from LfcinB, R-1-R, exhibits anti-Candida activity, which is enhanced when combined with an extract from the Bidens pilosa plant. However, the mechanism of action remains unexplored. In this research, a proteomic study was carried out, followed by a bioinformatic analysis and biological assays in both the SC5314 strain and a fluconazole-resistant isolate of Candida albicans after incubation with R-1-R. The proteomic data revealed that treatment with R-1-R led to the up-regulation of most differentially expressed proteins compared to the controls in both strains. These proteins are primarily involved in membrane and cell wall biosynthesis, membrane transport, oxidative stress response, the mitochondrial respiratory chain, and DNA damage response. Additionally, proteomic analysis of the C. albicans parental strain SC5314 treated with R-1-R combined with an ethanolic extract of B. pilosa was performed. The differentially expressed proteins following this combined treatment were involved in similar functional processes as those treated with the R-1-R peptide alone but were mostly down-regulated (data are available through ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD053558). Biological assays validated the proteomic results, evidencing cell surface damage, reactive oxygen species generation, and decreased mitochondrial membrane potential. These findings provide insights into the complex antifungal mechanisms of the R-1-R peptide and its combination with the B. pilosa extract, potentially informing future studies on natural product derivatives.
PXD052809	39201682	In Vitro Investigation of the Anti-Fibrotic Effects of 1-Phenyl-2-Pentanol, Identified from Moringa oleifera Lam., on Hepatic Stellate Cells. 	In Vitro Investigation of The Anti-Fibrotic Potential of 1-Phenyl-2-Pentanol, Identified from Moringa Oleifera Lam. on Hepatic Stellate Cells	1-phenyl-2-pentanol, Hepatic stellate cell, Liver fibrosis, Molecular docking analysis, Moringa oleifera Lam.	Liver fibrosis, characterized by excessive extracellular matrix deposition, is driven by activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Due to the limited availability of anti-fibrotic drugs, the research on therapeutic agents continues. Here we have investigated Moringa oleifera Lam. (MO), known for its various bioactive properties, for anti-fibrotic effects. This study has focused on 1-phenyl-2-pentanol (1-PHE), a compound derived from MO leaves, and its effects on LX-2 human hepatic stellate cell activation. TGF-beta1-stimulated LX-2 cells were treated with MO extract or 1-PHE, and the changes in liver fibrosis markers were assessed at both gene and protein levels. Proteomic analysis and molecular docking were employed to identify potential protein targets and signaling pathways affected by 1-PHE. Treatment with 1-PHE downregulated fibrosis markers, including collagen type I alpha 1 chain (COL1A1), collagen type IV alpha 1 chain (COL4A1), mothers against decapentaplegic homologs 2 and 3 (SMAD2/3), and matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP2), and reduced the secretion of matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9). Proteomic analysis data showed that 1-PHE modulates the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway, providing a possible mechanism for its effects. Our results suggest that 1-PHE inhibits the TGF-beta1 and Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathways and HSC activation, indicating its potential as an anti-liver-fibrosis agent.
PXD013375	39202712	A Proof of Principle 2D Spatial Proteome Mapping Analysis Reveals Distinct Regional Differences in the Cardiac Proteome. 	2D Spatial Proteomic Mapping Shows Distinct Regional Differences in the Bovine Cardiac Proteome	Heart, bovine, desmoglein 2, mitochondria	Proteomics studies often explore phenotypic differences between whole organs and systems. Within the heart, more subtle variation exists. To date, differences in the underlying proteome are only described between whole cardiac chambers. This study, using the bovine heart as a model, investigates inter-regional differences and assesses the feasibility of measuring detailed, cross-tissue variance in the cardiac proteome. Using a bovine heart, we created a two-dimensional section through a plane going through two chambers. This plane was further sectioned into 4 x 4 mm cubes and analysed using label-free proteomics. We identified three distinct proteomes. When mapped to the extracted sections, the proteomes corresponded largely to the outer wall of the right ventricle and secondly to the outer wall of the left ventricle, right atrial appendage, tricuspid and mitral valves, modulator band, and parts of the left atrium. The third separate proteome corresponded to the inner walls of the left and right ventricles, septum, and left atrial appendage. Differential protein abundancies indicated differences in energy metabolism between regions. Data analyses of the mitochondrial proteins revealed a variable pattern of abundances of complexes I-V between the proteomes, indicating differences in the bioenergetics of the different cardiac sub-proteomes. Mapping of disease-associated proteins interestingly showed desmoglein-2, for which defects in this protein are known to cause Arrhythmogenic Right Ventricular Dysplasia/Cardiomyopathy, which was present predominantly in the outer wall of the left ventricle. This study highlights that organs can have variable proteomes that do not necessarily correspond to anatomical features.
PXD025436	39203567	Surface-Shaving of Staphylococcus aureus Strains and Quantitative Proteomic Analysis Reveal Differences in Protein Abundance of the Surfaceome. 	Surface-shaving of Staphylococcus aureus strains using Lipid-based Protein Immobilization (LPI) and quantitative proteomic analysis reveal differences in protein expression levels of the surfaceome	Staphylococcus aureus, relative quantification, surfaceome, tandem mass tags, virulence factors	Staphylococcus aureus is a pathogen known to cause a wide range of infections. To find new targets for identification and to understand host-pathogen interactions, many studies have focused on surface proteins. We performed bacterial-cell surface-shaving, followed by tandem mass tag for quantitative mass spectrometry proteomics, to examine the surfaceome of S. aureus. Two steps were performed, the first step including surface protein-deficient mutants of S. aureus Newman strain lacking important virulence genes (clfA and spa, important for adhesion and immune evasion and srtAsrtB, linking surface-associated virulence factors to the surface) and the second step including isolates of different clinical origin. All strains were compared to the Newman strain. In Step 1, altogether, 7880 peptides were identified, corresponding to 1290 proteins. In Step 2, 4949 peptides were identified, corresponding to 919 proteins and for each strain, approximately 20 proteins showed differential expression compared to the Newman strain. The identified surface proteins were related to host-cell-adherence and immune-system-evasion, biofilm formation, and survival under harsh conditions. The results indicate that surface-shaving of intact S. aureus bacterial strains in combination with quantitative proteomics is a useful tool to distinguish differences in protein abundance of the surfaceome, including the expression of virulence factors.
PXD054353	39206541	Insight in the (Phospho)proteome of Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells Derived From Patients With Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Reveals Novel Disease Mechanisms. 	Phospho-proteome of vascular smooth muscle cells derived from abdominal aortic aneurysm patients	Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm, Contractile function, Vascular biology, Vascular smooth muscle cells	BACKGROUND: Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is characterized by weakening and dilatation of the aortic wall in the abdomen. The aim of this study was to gain insight into cell-specific mechanisms involved in AAA pathophysiology by analyzing the (phospho)proteome of vascular smooth muscle cells derived from patients with AAA compared with those of healthy donors. METHODS: A (phospho)proteomics analysis based on tandem mass spectrometry was performed on vascular smooth muscle cells derived from patients with AAA (n=24) and healthy, control individuals (C-SMC, n=8). Following protein identification and quantification using MaxQuant, integrative inferred kinase activity analysis was used to calculate kinase activity scores. RESULTS: Expression differences between vascular smooth muscle cells derived from patients with AAA and healthy, control individuals were predominantly found in proteins involved in ECM (extracellular matrix) remodeling (THSD4 [thrombospondin type-1 domain-containing protein 4] and ADAMTS1 [A disintegrin and metalloproteinase with thrombospondin motifs 1]), energy metabolism (GYS1 [glycogen synthase 1] and PCK2 [phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 2, mitochondrial]), and contractility (CACNA2D1 [calcium voltage-dependent channel subunit alpha-2/delta-1] and TPM1 [tropomyosin alpha-1 chain]). Phosphorylation patterns on proteins related to actin cytoskeleton organization dominated the phosphoproteome of vascular smooth muscle cells derived from patients with AAA . Besides, phosphorylation changes on proteins related to energy metabolism (GYS1), contractility (PARVA [alpha-parvin], PPP1R12A [protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 12A], and CALD1 [caldesmon 1]), and intracellular communication (GJA1 [gap junction alpha-1 protein]) were seen. Kinase activity of NUAK1 (NUAK family SNF1-like kinase 1), FYN (tyrosine-protein kinase Fyn), MAPK7 (mitogen-activated protein kinase 7), and STK10 (serine/threonine kinase 10) was different in vascular smooth muscle cells derived from patients with AAA compared with those from healthy, control individuals. CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed changes in expression and phosphorylation levels of proteins involved in various processes responsible for AAA progression and development (eg, energy metabolism, ECM remodeling, actin cytoskeleton organization, contractility, intracellular communication, and cell adhesion). These newly identified proteins, phosphosites, and related kinases provide further insight into the underlying mechanism of vascular smooth muscle cell dysfunction within the aneurysmal wall. Our omics data thereby offer the opportunity to study the relevance, either as drug target or biomarker, of these proteins in AAA development.
PXD035154	39206545	Transient Inhibition of Translation Improves Cardiac Function After Ischemia/Reperfusion by Attenuating the Inflammatory Response. 	Mouse Heart 2 day Ischemia/Reperfusion Surgery - Mass Spectrometry	I/R, heart, ischemia/reperfusion, ventricle	BACKGROUND: The myocardium adapts to ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) by changes in gene expression, determining the cardiac response to reperfusion. mRNA translation is a key component of gene expression. It is largely unknown how regulation of mRNA translation contributes to cardiac gene expression and inflammation in response to reperfusion and whether it can be targeted to mitigate I/R injury. METHODS: To examine translation and its impact on gene expression in response to I/R, we measured protein synthesis after reperfusion in vitro and in vivo. Underlying mechanisms of translational control were examined by pharmacological and genetic targeting of translation initiation in mice. Cell type-specific ribosome profiling was performed in mice that had been subjected to I/R to determine the impact of mRNA translation on the regulation of gene expression in cardiomyocytes. Translational regulation of inflammation was studied by quantification of immune cell infiltration, inflammatory gene expression, and cardiac function after short-term inhibition of translation initiation. RESULTS: Reperfusion induced a rapid recovery of translational activity that exceeds baseline levels in the infarct and border zone and is mediated by translation initiation through the mTORC1 (mechanistic target of rapamycin complex 1)-4EBP1 (eIF4E-binding protein 1)-eIF (eukaryotic initiation factor) 4F axis. Cardiomyocyte-specific ribosome profiling identified that I/R increased translation of mRNA networks associated with cardiac inflammation and cell infiltration. Short-term inhibition of the mTORC1-4EBP1-eIF4F axis decreased the expression of proinflammatory cytokines such as Ccl2 (C-C motif chemokine ligand 2) of border zone cardiomyocytes, thereby attenuating Ly6C(hi) monocyte infiltration and myocardial inflammation. In addition, we identified a systemic immunosuppressive effect of eIF4F translation inhibitors on circulating monocytes, directly inhibiting monocyte infiltration. Short-term pharmacological inhibition of eIF4F complex formation by 4EGI-1 or rapamycin attenuated translation, reduced infarct size, and improved cardiac function after myocardial infarction. CONCLUSIONS: Global protein synthesis is inhibited during ischemia and shortly after reperfusion, followed by a recovery of protein synthesis that exceeds baseline levels in the border and infarct zones. Activation of mRNA translation after reperfusion is driven by mTORC1/eIF4F-mediated regulation of initiation and mediates an mRNA network that controls inflammation and monocyte infiltration to the myocardium. Transient inhibition of the mTORC1-/eIF4F axis inhibits translation and attenuates Ly6C(hi) monocyte infiltration by inhibiting a proinflammatory response at the site of injury and of circulating monocytes.
PXD046712	39207859	B cell-based therapy produces antibodies that inhibit glioblastoma growth. 	B-Cell-based Therapy Controls Glioblastoma Growth by Producing Antibodies that Inhibit Tumor Invasion and Migration	B-cell-based vaccine (BVax), Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), Immunoproteomics, Tumor-reactive antibodies	Glioblastoma (GBM) is a highly aggressive and malignant brain tumor with limited therapeutic options and a poor prognosis. Despite current treatments, the invasive nature of GBM often leads to recurrence. A promising alternative strategy is to harness the potential of the immune system against tumor cells. Our previous data showed that the Bvax (B-cell-based vaccine) can induce therapeutic responses in preclinical models of GBM. In this study, we aim to characterize the antigenic reactivity of BVax-derived antibodies and evaluate their therapeutic potential. We performed immunoproteomics and functional assays in murine models and human GBM patient samples. Our investigations revealed that BVax distributes throughout the GBM tumor microenvironment (TME) and then differentiates into antibody-producing plasmablasts. Proteomic analyses indicate that the antibodies produced by BVax display unique reactivity, predominantly targeting factors associated with cell motility and the extracellular matrix. Crucially, these antibodies inhibit critical processes such as GBM cell migration and invasion. These findings provide valuable insights into the therapeutic potential of BVax-derived antibodies for GBM patients, pointing towards a novel direction in GBM immunotherapy.
PXD043242	39208083	The landscape of RNA-binding proteins in mammalian spermatogenesis. 	RBDmap analysis of adult and puberty mouse testis	RBDmap, RNA binding region, spermatogenesis, testis	Despite continuous expansion of the RNA-binding protein (RBP) world, there is a lack of systematic understanding of RBPs in mammalian testis, which harbors one of the most complex tissue transcriptomes. We adapted RNA interactome capture to mouse male germ cells, building an RBP atlas characterized by multiple layers of dynamics along spermatogenesis. Trapping of RNA-crosslinked peptides showed that the glutamic acid-arginine (ER) patch, a residue-coevolved polyampholytic element present in coiled-coils, enhances RNA binding of its host RBPs. Deletion of this element in NONO (non-POU domain-containing octamer-binding protein) led to a defective mitosis-to-meiosis transition due to compromised NONO-RNA interactions. Whole-exome sequencing of over 1000 infertile men revealed a prominent role of RBPs in the human genetic architecture of male infertility and identified risk ER patch variants.
PXD052957	39208111	Aggregate-selective removal of pathological tau by clustering-activated degraders. 	Aggregate-selective removal of pathological tau via clustering-activated degraders	TRIM21, neurodegenerative diseases, tau	Selective degradation of pathological protein aggregates while sparing monomeric forms is of major therapeutic interest. The E3 ligase tripartite motif-containing protein 21 (TRIM21) degrades antibody-bound proteins in an assembly state-specific manner due to the requirement of TRIM21 RING domain clustering for activation, yet effective targeting of intracellular assemblies remains challenging. Here, we fused the RING domain of TRIM21 to a target-specific nanobody to create intracellularly expressed constructs capable of selectively degrading assembled proteins. We evaluated this approach against green fluorescent protein-tagged histone 2B (H2B-GFP) and tau, a protein that undergoes pathological aggregation in Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases. RING-nanobody degraders prevented or reversed tau aggregation in culture and in vivo, with minimal impact on monomeric tau. This approach may have therapeutic potential for the many disorders driven by intracellular protein aggregation.
PXD054942	39208613	Proteomic analysis revealed gender-related differences in the skin mucus proteome of discus fish (Symphysodon haraldi) during the parental and non-parental care periods. 	Proteomic analysis revealed gender-related differences in the skin mucus proteome of discus fish (Symphysodon haraldi) during the parental and non-parental care periods	Discus fish, Parental care, Skin mucus	The discus fish, Symphysodon spp., a South American cichlid, has a unique parental care behavior where fry bite on parental skin mucus after hatching. In this study, we used LC-MS/MS technique to compare the skin mucus proteome composition of male or female discus fish during parental and non-parental care periods. By multivariate statistical analysis, we found clear separations between different periods and between different sexes of mucus proteome. Compared with non-parental female fish, parental female fish had 283 up-regulated and 235 down-regulated expressed proteins. Compared with non-parental male fish, parental male fish had 169 up-regulated and 120 down-regulated expressed proteins. The differentially expressed proteins for male fish were enriched in sulfur relay system, mucin type O-glycan biosynthesis and antigen processing and presentation pathways, while those for female fish were enriched in sulfur relay system, steroid biosynthesis and complement and coagulation cascades pathways. During the parental care, both male and female discus showed an enhanced lipid metabolism, producing more phospholipids and cholesterol. The difference is that male discus had increased tricarboxylic acid cycle producing more energy during the parental care, while females produced more nucleotides especially guanylic acid. Our study could provide new insights into the understanding of the unique mucus supply behavior of discus fish based on proteomic change.
PXD050873	39208794	Unveiling the double-edged sword: SOD1 trimers possess tissue-selective toxicity and bind septin-7 in motor neuron-like cells. 	superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) trimer interactome from mouse brain, spinal cord, and muscle tissues	SOD1, interactome, oligomers	Misfolded species of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) are associated with increased death in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) models compared to insoluble protein aggregates. The mechanism by which structurally independent SOD1 trimers cause cellular toxicity is unknown but may drive disease pathology. Here, we uncovered the SOD1 trimer interactome-a map of potential tissue-selective protein-binding partners in the brain, spinal cord, and skeletal muscle. We identified binding partners and key pathways associated with SOD1 trimers and found that trimers may affect normal cellular functions such as dendritic spine morphogenesis and synaptic function in the central nervous system and cellular metabolism in skeletal muscle. We discovered SOD1 trimer-selective enrichment of genes. We performed detailed computational and biochemical characterization of SOD1 trimer protein binding for septin-7. Our investigation highlights key proteins and pathways within distinct tissues, revealing a plausible intersection of genetic and pathophysiological mechanisms in ALS through interactions involving SOD1 trimers.
PXD051527	39208801	Proteo-metabolomics and patient tumor slice experiments point to amino acid centrality for rewired mitochondria in fibrolamellar carcinoma. 	Proteomic profiling in fibrolamellar carcinoma patient tumor tissue	FLC, Fibrolamellar Carcinoma, cancer, frozen tissue, liver, metastatic, non-malignant, primary	Fibrolamellar carcinoma (FLC) is a rare, lethal, early-onset liver cancer with a critical need for new therapeutics. The primary driver in FLC is the fusion oncoprotein, DNAJ-PKAc, which remains challenging to target therapeutically. It is critical, therefore, to expand understanding of the FLC molecular landscape to identify druggable pathways/targets. Here, we perform the most comprehensive integrative proteo-metabolomic analysis of FLC. We also conduct nutrient manipulation, respirometry analyses, as well as key loss-of-function assays in FLC tumor tissue slices from patients. We propose a model of cellular energetics in FLC pointing to proline anabolism being mediated by ornithine aminotransferase hyperactivity and ornithine transcarbamylase hypoactivity with serine and glutamine catabolism fueling the process. We highlight FLC's potential dependency on voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC), a mitochondrial gatekeeper for anions including pyruvate. The metabolic rewiring in FLC that we propose in our model, with an emphasis on mitochondria, can be exploited for therapeutic vulnerabilities.
PXD050655	39209203	Biopsy Proteome Score Performs Well as an Effect Measure in a Gluten Challenge Trial of Celiac Disease. 	Biopsy  proteome score performs well as an effect measure in a gluten-challenge trial of coeliac disease	Evosep, clinical trial, gut biopsy, proteome score, timsTOFfleX	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Development of novel treatments for celiac disease (CeD) is dependent on precise tools to monitor changes in gluten-induced mucosal damage. Current histology measures are subjective and difficult to standardize. Biopsy proteome scoring is an objective alternative to histology which is based on robust changes in biological pathways that directly reflect gluten-induced mucosal damage. In this study we aimed to evaluate biopsy proteome scoring as an effect measure in a clinical trial setting by measuring intestinal remodeling in response to oral gluten challenge. METHODS: We analyzed biopsies from a 14-day gluten challenge trial of treated CeD patients that consumed 3 g (n = 6) or 10 g (n = 7) gluten per day. Sections from individually embedded biopsies collected before and after challenge were processed for proteome scoring (n = 109) and measurement of villous height to crypt depth (Vh:Cd) ratio (n = 58). Proteome scores were compared to histology, intraepithelial lymphocyte (IEL) frequency and plasma interleukin-2 (IL-2). RESULTS: Change in proteome scores were significant for the group of patients who consumed 10 g gluten, but not for the group who consumed 3 g gluten. Altogether, 8 of 13 patients had changes in delta proteome scores above cut-off. Proteome scores correlated with Vh:Cd ratios both at run-in and at day 15. Proteome scores at day 15 correlated with IEL frequency and with plasma IL-2 levels measured 4 hours post gluten intake. CONCLUSION: Biopsy proteome scoring is a simple and reliable measure of gluten-induced mucosal remodeling in response to 14-day oral gluten challenge (ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT03409796).
PXD046691	39209816	The novel ribosome biogenesis inhibitor usnic acid blocks nucleolar pre-60S maturation. 	The novel ribosome biogenesis inhibitor usnic acid blocks nucleolar pre-60S maturation	60s, ribosome biogenesis	The formation of new ribosomes is tightly coordinated with cell growth and proliferation. In eukaryotes, the correct assembly of all ribosomal proteins and RNAs follows an intricate scheme of maturation and rearrangement steps across three cellular compartments: the nucleolus, nucleoplasm, and cytoplasm. We demonstrate that usnic acid, a lichen secondary metabolite, inhibits the maturation of the large ribosomal subunit in yeast. We combine biochemical characterization of pre-ribosomal particles with a quantitative single-particle cryo-EM approach to monitor changes in nucleolar particle populations upon drug treatment. Usnic acid rapidly blocks the transition from nucleolar state B to C of Nsa1-associated pre-ribosomes, depleting key maturation factors such as Dbp10 and hindering pre-rRNA processing. This primary nucleolar block rapidly rebounds on earlier stages of the pathway which highlights the regulatory linkages between different steps. In summary, we provide an in-depth characterization of the effect of usnic acid on ribosome biogenesis, which may have implications for its reported anti-cancer activities.
PXD054394	39209842	Interdomain-linkers control conformational transitions in the SLC23 elevator transporter UraA. 	Interdomain-linker control conformational transitions in the SLC23 elevator transporter UraA	E. coli, HDX-MS, UraA	Uptake of nucleobases and ascorbate is an essential process in all living organisms mediated by SLC23 transport proteins. These transmembrane carriers operate via the elevator alternating-access mechanism, and are composed of two rigid domains whose relative motion drives transport. The lack of large conformational changes within these domains suggests that the interdomain-linkers act as flexible tethers. Here, we show that interdomain-linkers are not mere tethers, but have a key regulatory role in dictating the conformational space of the transporter and defining the rotation axis of the mobile transport domain. By resolving a wide inward-open conformation of the SLC23 elevator transporter UraA and combining biochemical studies using a synthetic nanobody as conformational probe with hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, we demonstrate that interdomain-linkers control the function of transport proteins by influencing substrate affinity and transport rate. These findings open the possibility to allosterically modulate the activity of elevator proteins by targeting their linkers.
PXD048280	39209885	Visualization of the Cdc48 AAA+ ATPase protein unfolding pathway. 	Visualization of the Cdc48 AAA+ ATPase protein unfolding pathway: Substrate Identification	SHP1 pulldown	The Cdc48 AAA+ ATPase is an abundant and essential enzyme that unfolds substrates in multiple protein quality control pathways. The enzyme includes two conserved AAA+ ATPase motor domains, D1 and D2, that assemble as hexameric rings with D1 stacked above D2. Here, we report an ensemble of native structures of Cdc48 affinity purified from budding yeast lysate in complex with the adaptor Shp1 in the act of unfolding substrate. Our analysis reveals a continuum of structural snapshots that spans the entire translocation cycle. These data uncover elements of Shp1-Cdc48 interactions and support a 'hand-over-hand' mechanism in which the sequential movement of individual subunits is closely coordinated. D1 hydrolyzes ATP and disengages from substrate prior to D2, while D2 rebinds ATP and re-engages with substrate prior to D1, thereby explaining the dominant role played by the D2 motor in substrate translocation/unfolding.
PXD051579	39210244	ENPP1 induces blood-brain barrier dysfunction and promotes brain metastasis formation in HER2-positive breast cancer. 	Blood-brain barrier dysfunction in brain metastasis formation in HER2-positive breast cancer	BBB dysfunction, HER2+ breast cancer, brain metastasis, secretome	BACKGROUND: Brain metastasis (BrM) is a devastating end-stage neurological complication that occurs in up to 50% of HER2+ breast cancer patients. Understanding how disseminating tumor cells manage to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) is essential for developing effective preventive strategies. We identified the ecto-nucleotidase ENPP1 as specifically enriched in the secretome of HER2+ brain metastatic cells, prompting us to explore its impact on BBB dysfunction and BrM formation. METHODS: We used in vitro BBB and in vivo premetastatic mouse models to evaluate the effect of tumor-secreted ENPP1 on brain vascular permeability. BBB integrity was analyzed by real-time fluorescence imaging of 20 kDa Cy7.5-dextran extravasation and immunofluorescence staining of adherens and tight junction proteins. Pro-metastatic effects of ENPP1 were evaluated in an experimental brain metastatic model. RESULTS: Systemically secreted ENPP1 from primary breast tumors impaired the integrity of BBB with loss of tight and adherens junction proteins early before the onset of BrM. Mechanistically, ENPP1 induced endothelial cell dysfunction by impairing insulin signaling and its downstream AKT/GSK3beta/beta-catenin pathway. Genetic ablation of ENPP1 from HER2+ brain metastatic cells prevented endothelial cell dysfunction and reduced metastatic burden while prolonging the overall and metastasis-free survival of mice. Furthermore, plasmatic ENPP1 levels correlate with brain metastatic burden and inversely with overall survival. CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrated that metastatic breast cancer cells exploit the ENPP1 signaling for cell transmigration across the BBB and brain colonization. Our data implicate ENPP1 as a potential biomarker for poor prognosis and early detection of BrM in HER2+ breast cancer.
PXD052946	39211177	Traffic Jam activates the Flamenco piRNA cluster locus and the Piwi pathway to ensure transposon silencing and Drosophila fertility. 	Traffic jam directly regulates the Drosophila piRNA cluster flamenco and the Piwi pathway gene network to ensure transposon silencing and female fertility.	Affinity enrichment, Drosophila melanogaster, TMT, Traffic jam, fertilitym transposon, multiplexed proteomics, piRNA, transcription, transposon	Flamenco (Flam) is the most prominent piRNA cluster locus expressed in Drosophila ovarian follicle cells, and it is required for female fertility to silence gypsy/mdg4 transposons. To determine how Flam is regulated, we used promoter-bashing reporter assays in OSS cells to uncover novel enhancer sequences within the first exons of Flam . We confirmed the enhancer sequence relevance in vivo with new Drosophila Flam deletion mutants of these regions that compromised Flam piRNA expression and lowered female fertility from activated transposons. Our proteomic analysis of proteins associated with these enhancer sequences discovered the transcription factor Traffic Jam (TJ). Tj knockdowns in OSS cells caused a decrease in Flam transcripts, Flam piRNAs, and multiple Piwi pathway genes. A TJ ChIP-seq analysis from whole flies and OSS cells confirmed TJ binding exactly at the enhancer that was deleted in the new Flam mutant as well as at multiple Piwi pathway gene enhancers. Interestingly, TJ also bound the Long Terminal Repeats of transposons that had decreased expression after Tj knockdowns in OSS cells. Our study reveals the integral role TJ plays in the on-going arms race between selfish transposons and their suppression by the host Piwi pathway and the Flam piRNA cluster locus.
PXD050284	39211222	Proteome-wide 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal signature of oxidative stress in the marine invasive tunicate Botryllus schlosseri. 	Proteome-wide 4-hydroxynonenal signature of oxidative stress in marine colonial tunicates	4-hydroxynonenal, Data-independent acquisition, Ecological proteomics, Oxidative stress, Posttranslational modification, Tunicates	The colonial ascidian Boytryllus schlosseri is an invasive marine chordate that thrives under conditions of anthropogenic climate change. We show that the B. schlosseri expressed proteome contains unusually high levels of proteins that are adducted with 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE). HNE represents a prominent posttranslational modification resulting from oxidative stress. Although numerous studies have assessed oxidative stress in marine organisms HNE protein modification has not previously been determined in any marine species. LC/MS proteomics was used to identify 1052 HNE adducted proteins in B. schlosseri field and laboratory populations. Adducted amino acid residues were ascertained for 1849 modified sites, of which 1195 had a maximum amino acid localization score. Most HNE modifications were at less reactive lysines (rather than more reactive cysteines). HNE prevelance on most sites was high. These observations suggest that B. schlosseri experiences and tolerates high intracellular reactive oxygen species levels, resulting in substantial lipid peroxidation. HNE adducted B. schlosseri proteins show enrichment in mitochondrial, proteostasis, and cytoskeletal functions. Based on these results we propose that redox signaling contributes to regulating energy metabolism, the blastogenic cycle, oxidative burst defenses, and cytoskeleton dynamics during B. schlosseri development and physiology. A DIA assay library was constructed to quantify HNE adduction at 72 sites across 60 proteins that represent a holistic network of functionally discernable oxidative stress bioindicators. We conclude that the vast amount of HNE protein adduction in this circumpolar tunicate is indicative of high oxidative stress tolerance contributing to its range expansion into diverse environments. NEW & NOTEWORTHY: Oxidative stress results from environmental challenges that increase in frequency and severity during the Anthropocene. Oxygen radical attack causes lipid peroxidation leading to HNE production. Proteome-wide HNE adduction is highly prevalent in Botryllus schlosseri , a widely distributed, highly invasive, and economically important biofouling ascidian and the first marine species to be analyzed for proteome HNE modification. HNE adduction of specific proteins physiologically sequesters reactive oxygen species, which enhances fitness and resilience during environmental change.
PXD051386	39211388	Multi-omics characterization of type 2 diabetes mellitus-induced gastroenteropathy in the db/db mouse model. 	proteomics of Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus-Induced Gastroenteropathy in the db/db Mouse Model	Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus-Induced Gastroenteropathy, db/db Mouse Model	Objective: Gastrointestinal dysfunction are often associated with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), a complicated metabolic illness. Contributing factors have been proposed, including genetic predisposition, gene environmental, and lifestyle interactions, but the pathophysiology remains unknown. Methods: We aim to explore the possible causes behind gastrointestinal dysfunction caused by type 2 diabetes in this study. A comprehensive analysis of the gastric sinus metabolome, transcriptome, and proteome in db/db mice with gastrointestinal dysfunction was conducted. Results: The model group of mice had considerably lower small intestine propulsion and gastric emptying rates, higher blood glucose levels, and were significantly obese compared to the control group. We identified 297 genes, 350 proteins, and 1,001 metabolites exhibiting significant differences between db/db and control mice (p < 0.05). Moreover, multi-omics analysis revealed that the genes, proteins, and metabolites in the T2DM-induced gastroenteropathy mice group were involved in arachidonic acid metabolism, glycerophospholipid metabolism and vitamin digestion and absorption. Specifically, Cbr3, Etnppl, and Apob were the major mRNAs associated with T2DM-induced gastrointestinal dysfunction, while Cyp2b10, Cyp2b19, Pgs1, Gpat3, Apoa4, and Tcn2 were the major proteins associated with T2DM-induced gastrointestinal injury, and 16(R)-HET, 5-HETE, LysoPC (22:0), and Pantothenic acid were the major metabolites associated with T2DM-induced gastrointestinal disorders. Conclusion: The mechanism of action of diabetic gastroenteropathy may be related to vitamin digestion and absorption, glycerophospholipid metabolism, and arachidonic acid metabolism.
PXD052695	39213495	EIF4G2 Promotes Hepatocellular Carcinoma Progression via IRES-dependent PLEKHA1 Translation Regulation. 	EIF4G2 Promotes HCC Progression	EIF4G2, Hepatocellular carcinoma, IRES-dependent translation, PLEKHA1, Translation-related proteins, Tumor metastasis	Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly lethal cancer, and proteomic studies have shown increased protein diversity and abundance in HCC tissues, whereas the role of protein translation has not been extensively explored in HCC. Our research focused on key molecules in the translation process to identify a potential contributor in HCC. We discovered that EIF4G2, a crucial translation initiation factor, is significantly upregulated in HCC tissues and associated with poor prognosis. This study uniquely highlights the impact of EIF4G2 deletion, which suppresses tumor growth and metastasis both in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, polysome analysis and nascent protein synthesis assays revealed EIF4G2's role in regulating protein translation, specifically identifying PLEKHA1 as a key translational product. This represents a novel mechanistic insight into HCC malignancy. RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP) and Dual-luciferase reporter assays further revealed that EIF4G2 facilitates PLEKHA1 translation via an IRES-dependent manner. Importantly, the synergistic effects of EIF4G2 depletion and PLEKHA1 reduction in inhibiting cell migration and invasion underscore the therapeutic potential of targeting this axis. This study not only advances our understanding of translational regulation in HCC but also identifies the EIF4G2-PLEKHA1 axis as a promising therapeutic target, offering new avenues for intervention in HCC treatment.
PXD050925	39213513	Mechanical Loading Modulates AMPK and mTOR Signaling in Muscle Cells. 	Mechanical loading modulates AMPK and mTOR signaling in myoblasts	L6  muscle cells, LC-MS, mechanical loading	Skeletal muscle adaptation to exercise involves various phenotypic changes that enhance the metabolic and contractile functions. One key regulator of these adaptive responses is the activation of AMPK, which is influenced by exercise intensity. However, the mechanistic understanding of AMPK activation during exercise remains incomplete. In this study, we utilized an in vitro model to investigate the effects of mechanical loading on AMPK activation and its interaction with the mTOR signaling pathway. Proteomic analysis of muscle cells subjected to static loading (SL) revealed distinct quantitative protein alterations associated with RNA metabolism, with 10% SL inducing the most pronounced response compared to lower intensities of 5% and 2% as well as the control. Additionally, 10% SL suppressed RNA and protein synthesis while activating AMPK and inhibiting the mTOR pathway. We also found that SRSF2, necessary for pre-mRNA splicing, is regulated by AMPK and mTOR signaling, which, in turn, is regulated in an intensity-dependent manner by SL with the highest expression in 2% SL. Further examination showed that the ADP/ATP ratio was increased after 10% SL compared to the control and that SL induced changes in mitochondrial biogenesis. Furthermore, Seahorse assay results indicate that 10% SL enhances mitochondrial respiration. These findings provide novel insights into the cellular responses to mechanical loading and shed light on the intricate AMPK-mTOR regulatory network in muscle cells.
PXD054327	39213636	Proteomics Analysis of Renal Cell Line Caki-2 with AFMID Overexpression and Potential Biomarker Discovery in Urine. 	Proteome of renal cell line caki-2 with AFMID overexpression and potential biomarker discovery in urine	AFMID, RCC, biomarker, urine	Aromatic caninurine formamase (AFMID) is an enzyme involved in the tryptophan pathway, metabolizing N-formylkynurenine to kynurenine. AFMID had been found significantly downregulated in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) in both tissue and urine samples. Although ccRCC is characterized by a typical Warburg-like phenotype, mitochondrial dysfunction, and elevated fat deposition, it is unknown whether AFMID plays a role in tumorigenesis and the development of ccRCC. In the present study, AFMID overexpression had inhibitory effects for ccRCC cells, decreasing the rate of cell proliferation. Quantitative proteomics showed that AFMID overexpression altered cellular signaling pathways involved in cell growth and cellular metabolism pathways, including lipid metabolism and inositol phosphate metabolism. Further urine proteomic analysis indicated that cellular function dysfunction with AFMID overexpression could be reflected in the urine. The activity of predicted upregulators DDX58, TREX1, TGFB1, SMARCA4, and TNF in ccRCC cells and urine showed opposing change trends. Potential urinary biomarkers were tentatively discovered and further validated using an independent cohort. The protein panel of APOC3, UMOD, and CILP achieved an AUC value of 0.862 for the training cohort and 0.883 for the validation cohort. The present study is of significance in terms of highlighting various aspects of pathway changes associated with AFMID enzymes, discovering potential specific biomarkers for potential patient diagnosis, and therapeutic targeting.
PXD054629	39214984	Immunocompatible elastomer with increased resistance to the foreign body response. 	Immunocompatible Elastomer with increased resistance to the foreign body response	foreign body response	Polymeric elastomers are extensively employed to fabricate implantable medical devices. However, implantation of the elastomers can induce a strong immune rejection known as the foreign body response (FBR), diminishing their efficacy. Herein, we present a group of immunocompatible elastomers, termed easy-to-synthesize vinyl-based anti-FBR dense elastomers (EVADE). EVADE materials effectively suppress the inflammation and capsule formation in subcutaneous models of rodents and non-human primates for at least one year and two months, respectively. Implantation of EVADE materials significantly reduces the expression of inflammation-related proteins S100A8/A9 in adjacent tissues compared to polydimethylsiloxane. We also show that inhibition or knockout of S100A8/A9 leads to substantial attenuation of fibrosis in mice, suggesting a target for fibrosis inhibition. Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion (CSII) catheters constructed from EVADE elastomers demonstrate significantly improved longevity and performance compared to commercial catheters. The EVADE materials reported here may enhance and extend function in various medical devices by resisting the local immune responses.
PXD034142	39215104	LUBAC enables tumor-promoting LTbeta receptor signaling by activating canonical NF-kappaB. 	Comprehensive understanding the molecular components of LTBR signalling complex in cancers	AP-MS, LC-MS, LFQ	Lymphotoxin beta receptor (LTbetaR), a member of the TNF receptor superfamily (TNFR-SF), is essential for development and maturation of lymphoid organs. In addition, LTbetaR activation promotes carcinogenesis by inducing a proinflammatory secretome. Yet, we currently lack a detailed understanding of LTbetaR signaling. In this study we discovered the linear ubiquitin chain assembly complex (LUBAC) as a previously unrecognized and functionally crucial component of the native LTbetaR signaling complex (LTbetaR-SC). Mechanistically, LUBAC-generated linear ubiquitin chains enable recruitment of NEMO, OPTN and A20 to the LTbetaR-SC, where they act coordinately to regulate the balance between canonical and non-canonical NF-kappaB pathways. Thus, different from death receptor signaling, where LUBAC prevents inflammation through inhibition of cell death, in LTbetaR signaling LUBAC is required for inflammatory signaling by enabling canonical and interfering with non-canonical NF-kappaB activation. This results in a LUBAC-dependent LTbetaR-driven inflammatory, protumorigenic secretome. Intriguingly, in liver cancer patients with high LTbetaR expression, high expression of LUBAC correlates with poor prognosis, providing clinical relevance for LUBAC-mediated inflammatory LTbetaR signaling.
PXD051963	39216086	Myosin ATPase inhibition fails to rescue the metabolically dysregulated proteome of nebulin-deficient muscle. 	Effect of Mavacamten on skeletal muscle fibre proteome in nemaline myopathy	Mavacamten, nebulin, nemaline myopathy, skeletal muscle cell	Nemaline myopathy (NM) is a genetic muscle disease, primarily caused by mutations in the NEB gene (NEB-NM) and with muscle myosin dysfunction as a major molecular pathogenic mechanism. Recently, we have observed that the myosin biochemical super-relaxed state was significantly impaired in NEB-NM, inducing an aberrant increase in ATP consumption and remodelling of the energy proteome in diseased muscle fibres. Because the small-molecule Mavacamten is known to promote the myosin super-relaxed state and reduce the ATP demand, we tested its potency in the context of NEB-NM. We first conducted in vitro experiments in isolated single myofibres from patients and found that Mavacamten successfully reversed the myosin ATP overconsumption. Following this, we assessed its short-term in vivo effects using the conditional nebulin knockout (cNeb KO) mouse model and subsequently performing global proteomics profiling in dissected soleus myofibres. After a 4 week treatment period, we observed a remodelling of a large number of proteins in both cNeb KO mice and their wild-type siblings. Nevertheless, these changes were not related to the energy proteome, indicating that short-term Mavacamten treatment is not sufficient to properly counterbalance the metabolically dysregulated proteome of cNeb KO mice. Taken together, our findings emphasize Mavacamten potency in vitro but challenge its short-term efficacy in vivo. KEY POINTS: No cure exists for nemaline myopathy, a type of genetic skeletal muscle disease mainly derived from mutations in genes encoding myofilament proteins. Applying Mavacamten, a small molecule directly targeting the myofilaments, to isolated membrane-permeabilized muscle fibres from human patients restored myosin energetic disturbances. Treating a mouse model of nemaline myopathy in vivo with Mavacamten for 4 weeks, remodelled the skeletal muscle fibre proteome without any noticeable effects on energetic proteins. Short-term Mavacamten treatment may not be sufficient to reverse the muscle phenotype in nemaline myopathy.
PXD044636	39216471	Structure of calcineurin bound to PI4KA reveals dual interface in both PI4KA and FAM126A. 	Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange of PI4K(530-560) Peptide with Calcineurin	Calcineurin, HDXMS, Pi4k	Phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase alpha (PI4KA) maintains the phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PI4P) and phosphatidylserine pools of the plasma membrane. A key regulator of PI4KA is its association into a complex with TTC7 and FAM126 proteins. This complex can be regulated by the CNAbeta1 isoform of the phosphatase calcineurin. We previously identified that CNAbeta1 directly binds to FAM126A. Here, we report a cryoelectron microscopic (cryo-EM) structure of a truncated PI4KA complex bound to calcineurin, revealing a unique direct interaction between PI4KA and calcineurin. Hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) and computational analysis show that calcineurin forms a complex with an evolutionarily conserved IKISVT sequence in PI4KA's horn domain. We also characterized conserved LTLT and PSISIT calcineurin binding sequences in the C terminus of FAM126A. These dual sites in PI4KA and FAM126A are both in close proximity to phosphorylation sites in the PI4KA complex, suggesting key roles of calcineurin-regulated phosphosites in PI4KA regulation. This work reveals novel insight into how calcineurin can regulate PI4KA activity.
PXD054885	39217145	Phospholipid scrambling induced by an ion channel/metabolite transporter complex. 	LFQ of GFP-Trap IP-MS from BDKO cells expressing Tmem63b-GFP	BDKO cells, GFP-Trap, Tmem63b	Cells establish the asymmetrical distribution of phospholipids and alter their distribution by phospholipid scrambling (PLS) to adapt to environmental changes. Here, we demonstrate that a protein complex, consisting of the ion channel Tmem63b and the thiamine transporter Slc19a2, induces PLS upon calcium (Ca(2+)) stimulation. Through revival screening using a CRISPR sgRNA library on high PLS cells, we identify Tmem63b as a PLS-inducing factor. Ca(2+) stimulation-mediated PLS is suppressed by deletion of Tmem63b, while human disease-related Tmem63b mutants induce constitutive PLS. To search for a molecular link between Ca(2+) stimulation and PLS, we perform revival screening on Tmem63b-overexpressing cells, and identify Slc19a2 and the Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel Kcnn4 as PLS-regulating factors. Deletion of either of these genes decreases PLS activity. Biochemical screening indicates that Tmem63b and Slc19a2 form a heterodimer. These results demonstrate that a Tmem63b/Slc19a2 heterodimer induces PLS upon Ca(2+) stimulation, along with Kcnn4 activation.
PXD037398	39217152	A common druggable signature of oncogenic c-Myc, mutant KRAS and mutant p53 reveals functional redundancy and competition among oncogenes in cancer. 	Mutant p53, mutant KRAS and hyperactive CMYC downstream proteomic programs in lung, colon and pancreatic cancer cell lines	Cancer, K-ras, cell lines	The major driver oncogenes MYC, mutant KRAS, and mutant TP53 often coexist and cooperate to promote human neoplasia, which results in anticancer therapeutic opportunities within their downstream molecular programs. However, little research has been conducted on whether redundancy and competition among oncogenes affect their programs and ability to drive neoplasia. By CRISPR-Cas9-mediated downregulation we evaluated the downstream proteomics and transcriptomics programs of MYC, mutant KRAS, and mutant TP53 in a panel of cell lines with either one or three of these oncogenes activated, in cancers of the lung, colon and pancreas. Using RNAi screening of the commonly activated molecular programs, we found a signature of three proteins - RUVBL1, HSPA9, and XPO1, which could be efficiently targeted by novel drug combinations in the studied cancer types. Interestingly, the signature was controlled by the oncoproteins in a redundant or competitive manner rather than by cooperation. Each oncoprotein individually upregulated the target genes, while upon oncogene co-expression each target was controlled preferably by a dominant oncoprotein which reduced the influence of the others. This interplay was mediated by redundant routes of target gene activation - as in the case of mutant KRAS signaling to c-Jun/GLI2 transcription factors bypassing c-Myc activation, and by competition - as in the case of mutant p53 and c-Myc competing for binding to target promoters. The global transcriptomics data from the cell lines and patient samples indicate that the redundancy and competition of oncogenic programs are broad phenomena, that may constitute even a majority of the genes dependent on oncoproteins, as shown for mutant p53 in colon and lung cancer cell lines. Nevertheless, we demonstrated that redundant oncogene programs harbor targets for efficient anticancer drug combinations, bypassing the limitations for direct oncoprotein inhibition.
PXD042819	39217468	ADAR3 modulates neuronal differentiation and regulates mRNA stability and translation. 	ADAR3 modulates neuronal differentiation and regulates mRNA stability and translation	ADAR, ADAR3 co-IP, Brain, N2a cells	ADAR3 is a catalytically inactive member of the family of adenosine deaminases acting on RNA (ADARs). Here we have investigated its function in the context of the developing mouse brain. The expression of ADAR3 gradually increases throughout embryogenesis and drops after birth. Using primary cortical neurons, we show that ADAR3 is only expressed in a subpopulation of in vitro differentiated neurons, which suggests specific functions rather than being a general regulator of ADAR editing in the brain. The analysis of the ADAR3 interactome suggested a role in mRNA stability and translation, and we show that expression of ADAR3 in a neuronal cell line that is otherwise ADAR3-negative changes the expression and stability of a large number of mRNAs. Notably, we show that ADAR3 associates with polysomes and inhibits translation. We propose that ADAR3 binds to target mRNAs and stabilizes them in non-productive polysome complexes. Interestingly, the expression of ADAR3 downregulates genes related to neuronal differentiation and inhibits neurofilament outgrowth in vitro. In summary, we propose that ADAR3 negatively regulates neuronal differentiation, and that it does so by regulating mRNA stability and translation in an editing-independent manner.
PXD055145	39217614	Aldehydes alter TGF-beta signaling and induce obesity and cancer. 	Aldehydes alter TGF-b signaling and induce obesity and cancer	SPTBN1 aldehydes 4-hydroxynonenal	Obesity and fatty liver diseases-metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis (MASH)-affect over one-third of the global population and are exacerbated in individuals with reduced functional aldehyde dehydrogenase 2 (ALDH2), observed in approximately 560 million people. Current treatment to prevent disease progression to cancer remains inadequate, requiring innovative approaches. We observe that Aldh2(-/-) and Aldh2(-/-)Sptbn1(+/-) mice develop phenotypes of human metabolic syndrome (MetS) and MASH with accumulation of endogenous aldehydes such as 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE). Mechanistic studies demonstrate aberrant transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) signaling through 4-HNE modification of the SMAD3 adaptor SPTBN1 (beta2-spectrin) to pro-fibrotic and pro-oncogenic phenotypes, which is restored to normal SMAD3 signaling by targeting SPTBN1 with small interfering RNA (siRNA). Significantly, therapeutic inhibition of SPTBN1 blocks MASH and fibrosis in a human model and, additionally, improves glucose handling in Aldh2(-/-) and Aldh2(-/-)Sptbn1(+/-) mice. This study identifies SPTBN1 as a critical regulator of the functional phenotype of toxic aldehyde-induced MASH and a potential therapeutic target.
PXD053334	39218923	Novel potent molecular glue degraders against broad range of hematological cancer cell lines via multiple neosubstrates degradation. 	Novel molecular glue degraders against broad range of myeloma and lymphoma cancer cell lines	drug resistance, hematological cancer, molecular glue, neosubstrates, rational drug design	BACKGROUND: Targeted protein degradation of neosubstrates plays a crucial role in hematological cancer treatment involving immunomodulatory imide drugs (IMiDs) therapy. Nevertheless, the persistence of inevitable drug resistance and hematological toxicities represents a significant obstacle to their clinical effectiveness. METHODS: Phenotypic profiling of a small molecule compounds library in multiple hematological cancer cell lines was conducted to screen for hit degraders. Molecular dynamic-based rational design and cell-based functional assays were conducted to develop more potent degraders. Multiple myeloma (MM) tumor xenograft models were employed to investigate the antitumor efficacy of the degraders as single or combined agents with standard of care agents. Unbiased proteomics was employed to identify multiple therapeutically relevant neosubstrates targeted by the degraders. MM patient-derived cell lines (PDCs) and a panel of solid cancer cell lines were utilized to investigate the effects of candidate degrader on different stage of MM cells and solid malignancies. Unbiased proteomics of IMiDs-resistant MM cells, cell-based functional assays and RT-PCR analysis of clinical MM specimens were utilized to explore the role of BRD9 associated with IMiDs resistance and MM progression. RESULTS: We identified a novel cereblon (CRBN)-dependent lead degrader with phthalazinone scaffold, MGD-4, which induced the degradation of Ikaros proteins. We further developed a novel potent candidate, MGD-28, significantly inhibited the growth of hematological cancer cells and induced the degradation of IKZF1/2/3 and CK1alpha with nanomolar potency via a Cullin-CRBN dependent pathway. Oral administration of MGD-4 and MGD-28 effectively inhibited MM tumor growth and exhibited significant synergistic effects with standard of care agents. MGD-28 exhibited preferentially profound cytotoxicity towards MM PDCs at different disease stages and broad antiproliferative activity in multiple solid malignancies. BRD9 modulated IMiDs resistance, and the expression of BRD9 was significant positively correlated with IKZF1/2/3 and CK1alpha in MM specimens at different stages. We also observed pronounced synergetic efficacy between the BRD9 inhibitor and MGD-28 for MM treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings present a strategy for the multi-targeted degradation of Ikaros proteins and CK1alpha against hematological cancers, which may be expanded to additional targets and indications. This strategy may enhance efficacy treatment against multiple hematological cancers and solid tumors.
PXD046606	39218969	Outer membrane protein assembly mediated by BAM-SurA complexes. 	Understanding the interaction of SurA and BAM in the outer membrane of E. coli	BAM, E coli, SurA, outer membrane	The outer membrane is a formidable barrier that protects Gram-negative bacteria against environmental threats. Its integrity requires the correct folding and insertion of outer membrane proteins (OMPs) by the membrane-embedded beta-barrel assembly machinery (BAM). Unfolded OMPs are delivered to BAM by the periplasmic chaperone SurA, but how SurA and BAM work together to ensure successful OMP delivery and folding remains unclear. Here, guided by AlphaFold2 models, we use disulphide bond engineering in an attempt to trap SurA in the act of OMP delivery to BAM, and solve cryoEM structures of a series of complexes. The results suggest that SurA binds BAM at its soluble POTRA-1 domain, which may trigger conformational changes in both BAM and SurA that enable transfer of the unfolded OMP to the BAM lateral gate for insertion into the outer membrane. Mutations that disrupt the interaction between BAM and SurA result in outer membrane assembly defects, supporting the key role of SurA in outer membrane biogenesis.
PXD054620	39219796	Proteomic analysis reveals key differences in pro-stromal corneal tissue between highly myopic males and females. 	Proteomic analysis of pro-stromal corneal tissue of highly myopic males and females	cornea, high myopia, proteomic analysis, sex difference	Background and purpose: Nowadays, myopia has become a highly prevalent disease globally, especially in East Asia. Epidemiological studies have found that there may be sex differences in the occurrence and progression of myopia, with females having a higher incidence of myopia and higher risk of myopia progression. The purpose of this study was to explore the sex differences in myopic cornea using corneal stroma removed by small incision lenticule extraction (SMILE) surgery. Methods: The corneal stroma of females with high myopia (FH) and males with high myopia (MH) were subjected to proteomic assays. Proteomic-related data were statistically analyzed using software such as MaxQuan, KAAS, Proteome Discovery, etc. The total number of proteins in the cornea and the proteins specifically expressed in the two groups were counted, and the differentially expressed proteins in the two groups were identified by expression fold change >2 and p-value <0.05, and volcano plots were constructed, and functional enrichment analysis, subcellular organelle analysis, and molecular interaction were implemented. Results: Ten samples from each group were analyzed. Twenty-seven proteins were down-regulated and 27 proteins were up-regulated in the FH group, of which 23 proteins were up-regulated in the range of 2-10-fold and 4 proteins were up-regulated in the range of >10-fold. Comparative proteomic analysis of the cornea of male and female patients with high myopia revealed that the expression of corneal extracellular matrix and collagen I, III, V, and VIII-associated proteins were increased in the cornea of female patients, and the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta)/Smad pathway was an important pathway obtained by functional analysis. Conclusion: Comparative proteomic analysis of cornea from male and female patients with high myopia revealed increased expression of proteins related to extracellular matrix and collagen I, III, V, and VIII in female patients, and the TGF-beta/Smad pathway was an important pathway obtained from the functional analysis, suggesting that extracellular matrix remodeling and collagen fiber synthesis may be more active in the cornea of female patients.
PXD037814	39220485	LSD Modulates Proteins Involved in Cell Proteostasis, Energy Metabolism and Neuroplasticity in Human Cerebral Organoids. 	Lysergic acid dethylamide  proteomics modulation in brain organoids	cerebral organoid, iPSC, neural cell	Proteomic analysis of human cerebral organoids may reveal how psychedelics regulate biological processes, shedding light on drug-induced changes in the brain. This study elucidates the proteomic alterations induced by lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) in human cerebral organoids. By employing high-resolution mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we quantitatively analyzed the differential abundance of proteins in cerebral organoids exposed to LSD. Our findings indicate changes in proteostasis, energy metabolism, and neuroplasticity-related pathways. Specifically, LSD exposure led to alterations in protein synthesis, folding, autophagy, and proteasomal degradation, suggesting a complex interplay in the regulation of neural cell function. Additionally, we observed modulation in glycolysis and oxidative phosphorylation, crucial for cellular energy management and synaptic function. In support of the proteomic data, complementary experiments demonstrated LSD's potential to enhance neurite outgrowth in vitro, confirming its impact on neuroplasticity. Collectively, our results provide a comprehensive insight into the molecular mechanisms through which LSD may affect neuroplasticity and potentially contribute to therapeutic effects for neuropsychiatric disorders.
PXD044921	39223388	An engineered trafficking biosensor reveals a role for DNAJC13 in DOR downregulation. 	A genome-wide CRISPR interference screen using an engineered trafficking biosensor  reveals a role for DNAJC13 in opioid receptor downregulation	APEX2, DNAJC13, GPCR, endolysosome, endosomal sorting, isobaric labeling, opioid receptor, proximity labeling, quantitative proteomics	Trafficking of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) through the endosomal-lysosomal pathway is critical to homeostatic regulation of GPCRs following activation with agonist. Identifying the genes involved in GPCR trafficking is challenging due to the complexity of sorting operations and the large number of cellular proteins involved in the process. Here, we developed a high-sensitivity biosensor for GPCR expression and agonist-induced trafficking to the lysosome by leveraging the ability of the engineered peroxidase APEX2 to activate the fluorogenic substrate Amplex UltraRed (AUR). We used the GPCR-APEX2/AUR assay to perform a genome-wide CRISPR interference screen focused on identifying genes regulating expression and trafficking of the delta-opioid receptor (DOR). We identified 492 genes consisting of both known and new regulators of DOR function. We demonstrate that one new regulator, DNAJC13, controls trafficking of multiple GPCRs, including DOR, through the endosomal-lysosomal pathway by regulating the composition of the endosomal proteome and endosomal homeostasis.
PXD052863	39224219	Characterisation of reproductive tract microbiome and immune biomarkers for bovine genital campylobacteriosis in vaccinated and unvaccinated heifers. 	Characterisation of reproductive tract microbiome and immune biomarkers for Bovine Genital Campylobacteriosis in vaccinated and unvaccinated heifers	BGC, Biomarker, Cattle, Microbiome, Reproductive, Venereal disease	Background: Bovine genital campylobacteriosis (BGC) is a globally important venereal disease of cattle caused by Campylobacter fetus subspecies venerealis. Diagnosis of BGC is highly challenging due to the lack of accurate diagnostic tests. Methods: To characterise the biomarkers for C. fetus venerealis infection, a total of twelve cycling heifers were selected and categorised as vaccinated (n = 6) with Vibrovax(R) (Zoetis(TM)) and unvaccinated (n = 6). All heifers were oestrous synchronised with a double dose of prostaglandin (PGF2alpha) 11 days apart and when in oestrous intravaginally challenged with 2.7 x 10(9) CFU live C. fetus venerealis. DNA extracted from vaginal mucus samples was screened using a C. fetus qPCR and 16S rRNA was characterised using Illumina sequencing (V5-V8 region). Relative abundances of serum proteins were calculated using sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS) for all heifers at three timepoints: pre-challenge, post-challenge and post-recovery. Results: In 16S rRNA sequencing of vaginal mucus, Campylobacter spp. appeared two days following challenge in unvaccinated compared to 14 days in vaccinated animals, consistent with the qPCR results. Increased relative abundances of Firmicutes and Campylobacterota were identified after C. fetus venerealis challenge and were associated with C. fetus venerealis in vaccinated and unvaccinated heifers. Greater relative abundance of Streptococcus spp. was observed during oestrous rather than dioestrous. In both vaccinated and unvaccinated heifers, Acinetobacter spp. increased after challenge with higher abundance of Corynebacterium spp. in the vaccinated group. A total of 130 unique proteins were identified in SWATH analysis of the serum samples, and the number of differentially abundant proteins found was higher in the vaccinated group after recovery from infection compared to pre-and post-challenge (adjusted P < 0.05 and Log2FC > 0.2). Conclusion: Coglutinin, clusterin, HP homologs, vitamin D binding protein and fetuin B were identified as potential biomarkers for C. fetus venerealis infection and need further study to validate their efficiency as immune biomarkers for BGC.
PXD049439	39225086	Fkbp5 gene deletion: Circadian rhythm profile and brain proteomics in aged mice. 	Fkbp5 Gene Deletion: Impacts on Circadian Rhythmicity and Brain Proteomics in Aged Mice	DIA, Fkbp5, KO, PRM, aged, amygdala, brain, hippocampus, knock out	FKBP51, also known as FK506-binding protein 51, is a molecular chaperone and scaffolding protein with significant roles in regulating hormone signaling and responding to stress. Genetic variants in FKBP5, which encodes FKBP51, have been implicated in a growing number of neuropsychiatric disorders, which has spurred efforts to target FKBP51 therapeutically. However, the molecular mechanisms and sub-anatomical regions influenced by FKBP51 in these disorders are not fully understood. In this study, we aimed to examine the impact of Fkbp5 ablation using circadian phenotyping and molecular analyses. Our findings revealed that the lack of FKBP51 did not significantly alter circadian rhythms, as detected by wheel-running activity, but did offer protection against stress-mediated disruptions in rhythmicity in a sex-dependent manner. Protein changes in Fkbp5 KO mice, as measured by histology and proteomics, revealed alterations in a brain region- and sex-dependent manner. Notably, regardless of sex, aged Fkbp5 KOs showed elevated MYCBP2, FBXO45, and SPRYD3 levels, which are associated with neuronal-cell adhesion and synaptic integrity. Additionally, pathways such as serotonin receptor signaling and S100 family signaling were differentially regulated in Fkbp5 KO mice. Weighted protein correlation network analysis identified protein networks linked with synaptic transmission and neuroinflammation. The information generated by this work can be used to better understand the molecular changes in the brain during aging and in the absence of Fkbp5, which has implications for the continued development of FKBP51-focused therapeutics for stress-related disorders.
PXD055020	39226359	ER-associated degradation ligase HRD1 links ER stress to DNA damage repair by modulating the activity of DNA-PKcs. 	ER-associated degradation ligase HRD1 links ER stress to DNA damage repair by modulating the activity of DNA-PKcs	DNA damage, HDAC1, HRD1, KU70/KU80, TRIM25, endoplasmic reticulum stress	Proteostasis and genomic integrity are respectively regulated by the endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation (ERAD) and DNA damage repair signaling pathways, with both pathways essential for carcinogenesis and drug resistance. How these signaling pathways coordinate with each other remains unexplored. We found that ER stress specifically induces the DNA-PKcs-regulated nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ) pathway to amend DNA damage and impede cell death. Intriguingly, sustained ER stress rapidly decreased the activity of DNA-PKcs and DNA damage accumulated, facilitating a switch from adaptation to cell death. This DNA-PKcs inactivation was caused by increased KU70/KU80 protein degradation. Unexpectedly, the ERAD ligase HRD1 was found to efficiently destabilize the classic nuclear protein HDAC1 in the cytoplasm, by catalyzing HDAC1's polyubiquitination at lysine 74, at a late stage of ER stress. By abolishing HDAC1-mediated KU70/KU80 deacetylation, HRD1 transmits ER signals to the nucleus. The resulting enhanced KU70/KU80 acetylation provides binding sites for the nuclear E3 ligase TRIM25, resulting in the promotion of polyubiquitination and the degradation of KU70/KU80 proteins. Both in vitro and in vivo cancer models showed that genetic or pharmacological inhibition of HADC1 or DNA-PKcs sensitizes colon cancer cells to ER stress inducers, including the Food and Drug Administration-approved drug celecoxib. The antitumor effects of the combined approach were also observed in patient-derived xenograft models. These findings identify a mechanistic link between ER stress (ERAD) in the cytoplasm and DNA damage (NHEJ) pathways in the nucleus, indicating that combined anticancer strategies may be developed that induce severe ER stress while simultaneously inhibiting KU70/KU80/DNA-PKcs-mediated NHEJ signaling.
PXD048796	39226405	Novel Perspective on Molecular and Cellular Adaptations of the Mammary Gland-Regulating Milk Constituents and Immunity of Heat-Stressed Dairy Cows. 	Molecular and cellular adaptations of the mammary gland regulating milk constitutes and immunity of heat stressed dairy cows	adaptation, dairy cows, hyperthermia, inflammation, udder	Climate change with increasing ambient temperatures negatively influences the biology of dairy cows and their milk production in the mammary gland (MG). This study aimed to elucidate the MG proteome, differences in milk composition, and ruminal short-chain fatty acid concentrations of dairy cows experiencing 7 days of heat stress [HS, 28 degreesC, temperature humidity index (THI) = 76], pair-feeding (PF), or ad libitum feeding (CON) at thermoneutrality (16 degreesC, THI = 60). Ruminal acetate, acetate/propionate ratio, and milk urea concentrations were greater, whereas milk protein and lactose were lower in HS than in control cows. Proteome analysis revealed an induced bacterial invasion of epithelial cells, leukocyte transendothelial migration, reduction of the pyruvate and carbon metabolism, and platelet activation in the MG of HS compared to CON or PF cows. These results highlight adaptive metabolic and immune responses to mitigate the negative effects of ambient heat in the MG.
PXD046667	39227156	Beyond Glycolysis: Aldolase A is a Novel Effector in Reelin Mediated Dendritic Development. 	Glycolytic enzyme aldolase A is necessary for reelin mediated neurite growth and arborization	Aldolase A, LC-MS, Neurite growth, Reelin	Reelin, a secreted glycoprotein, plays a crucial role in guiding neocortical neuronal migration, dendritic outgrowth and arborization, and synaptic plasticity in the adult brain. Reelin primarily operates through the canonical lipoprotein receptors apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (Apoer2) and very low-density lipoprotein receptor (Vldlr). Reelin also engages with non-canonical receptors and unidentified co-receptors; however, the effects of which are less understood. Using high-throughput tandem mass tag LC-MS/MS-based proteomics and gene set enrichment analysis, we identified both shared and unique intracellular pathways activated by Reelin through its canonical and non-canonical signaling in primary murine neurons of either sex during dendritic growth and arborization. We observed pathway crosstalk related to regulation of cytoskeleton, neuron projection development, protein transport, and actin filament-based process. We also found enriched gene sets exclusively by the non-canonical Reelin pathway including protein translation, mRNA metabolic process and ribonucleoprotein complex biogenesis suggesting Reelin fine-tunes neuronal structure through distinct signaling pathways. A key discovery is the identification of aldolase A, a glycolytic enzyme and actin binding protein, as a novel effector of Reelin signaling. Reelin induced de novo translation and mobilization of aldolase A from the actin cytoskeleton. We demonstrated that aldolase A is necessary for Reelin-mediated dendrite growth and arborization in primary murine neurons and mouse brain cortical neurons. Interestingly, the function of aldolase A in dendrite development is independent of its known role in glycolysis. Altogether, our findings provide new insights into the Reelin-dependent signaling pathways and effector proteins that are crucial for dendritic development.Significance Statement Reelin is an extracellular glycoprotein that exerts its function primarily by binding to the canonical lipoprotein receptors Apoer2 and Vldlr. Reelin is best known for its role in neuronal migration during prenatal brain development. Reelin also signals through a non-canonical pathway outside of Apoer2/Vldlr; however, these receptors and signal transduction pathways are less defined. Here, we examined Reelin's role during dendritic outgrowth in primary murine neurons and identified shared and distinct pathways activated by canonical and non-canonical Reelin signaling. We also found aldolase A as a novel effector of Reelin signaling, that functions independently of its known metabolic role, highlighting Reelin's influence on neuronal structure and growth.
PXD036010	39227581	Fibre-specific mitochondrial protein abundance is linked to resting and post-training mitochondrial content in the muscle of men. 	Proteomics reveals a fibre-type specific mitochondrial remodelling with moderate- but not very high-intensity training	exercise, fibre type, single fibre, training	Analyses of mitochondrial adaptations in human skeletal muscle have mostly used whole-muscle samples, where results may be confounded by the presence of a mixture of type I and II muscle fibres. Using our adapted mass spectrometry-based proteomics workflow, we provide insights into fibre-specific mitochondrial differences in the human skeletal muscle of men before and after training. Our findings challenge previous conclusions regarding the extent of fibre-type-specific remodelling of the mitochondrial proteome and suggest that most baseline differences in mitochondrial protein abundances between fibre types reported by us, and others, might be due to differences in total mitochondrial content or a consequence of adaptations to habitual physical activity (or inactivity). Most training-induced changes in different mitochondrial functional groups, in both fibre types, were no longer significant in our study when normalised to changes in markers of mitochondrial content.
PXD045612	39228271	Molecular fingerprint by omics-based approaches in saliva from patients affected by SARS-CoV-2 infection. 	Molecular fingerprint by omics-based approaches in saliva from patients affected by SARS-CoV-2 infection	amino acids, metabolomics, peptides	Clinical expression of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) infectionis widely variable including fatal cases and patients with mild symptoms and a rapid resolution. We studied saliva from 63 hospitalized COVID-19 patients and from 30 healthy controls by integrating large-scale proteomics, peptidomics and targeted metabolomics to assess the biochemical alterations following the infection and to obtain a set of putative biomarkers useful for noninvasive diagnosis. We used an untargeted approach by using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for proteomics and peptidomics analysis and targeted LC-multiple reaction monitoring/MS for the analysis of amino acids. The levels of 77 proteins were significantly different in COVID-19 patients. Among these, seven proteins were found only in saliva from patients with COVID-19, four were up-regulated and three were down-regulated at least five-folds in saliva from COVID-19 patients in comparison to controls. The analysis of proteins revealed a complex balance between pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory proteins and a reduced amount of several proteins with immune activity that possibly favours the spreading of the virus. Such reduction could be related to the enhanced activity of endopeptidases induced by the infection that in turn caused an altered balance of free peptides. In fact, on a total of 28 peptides, 22 (80%) were differently expressed in severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and control subjects. The multivariate analysis of such peptides permits to obtain a diagnostic algorithm that discriminate the two populations with a high diagnostic efficiency. Among amino acids, only threonine resulted significantly different between COVID-19 patients and controls, while alanine levels were significantly different between COVID-19 patients with different severity. In conclusion, the present study defined a set of molecules to be detected with a quick and easy method based on mass spectrometry tandem useful to reveal biochemical alterations involved in the pathogenesis of such a complex disease. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD045612.
PXD066893	39229090	Mitochondrial complex III-derived ROS amplify immunometabolic changes in astrocytes and promote dementia pathology. 	Mitochondrial complex III-derived ROS amplify immunometabolic changes in astrocytes and promote dementia pathology	Astrocyte, Cysteine proteomics	Neurodegenerative disorders alter mitochondrial functions, including the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Mitochondrial complex III (CIII) generates ROS implicated in redox signaling, but its triggers, targets, and disease relevance are not clear. Using site-selective suppressors and genetic manipulations together with mitochondrial ROS imaging and multiomic profiling, we found that CIII is the dominant source of ROS production in astrocytes exposed to neuropathology-related stimuli. Astrocytic CIII-ROS production was dependent on nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and the mitochondrial sodium-calcium exchanger (NCLX) and caused oxidation of select cysteines within immune and metabolism-associated proteins linked to neurological disease. CIII-ROS amplified metabolomic and pathology-associated transcriptional changes in astrocytes, with STAT3 activity as a major mediator, and facilitated neuronal toxicity in a non-cell- autonomous manner. As proof-of-concept, suppression of CIII-ROS in mice decreased dementia-linked tauopathy and neuroimmune cascades and extended lifespan. Our findings establish CIII-ROS as an important immunometabolic signal transducer and tractable therapeutic target in neurodegenerative disease.
PXD038011	39229160	Extracellular Vesicles heterogeneity through the lens of multiomics. 	Integration of the whole proteome and transcriptome reveals a strong correlation between the protein and mRNA in a distinct population of cancer-derived EVs	Cancer-derived EV, Prostate Cancer, Transcriptomics	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are heterogenous in size, biogenesis, cargo and function. Beside small EVs, aggressive tumor cells release a population of particularly large EVs, namely large oncosomes (LO). This study provides the first resource of label-free quantitative proteomics of LO and small EVs obtained from distinct cancer cell types (prostate, breast, and glioma). This dataset was integrated with a SWATH Proteomic assay on LO, rigorously isolated from the plasma of patients with metastatic prostate cancer (PC). Proteins enriched in LO, which were identified also at the RNA level, and found in plasma LO significantly correlated with PC progression. Single EV RNA-Seq of the PC cell-derived LO confirmed some of the main findings from the bulk RNA-Seq, providing first evidence that single cell technologies can be successfully applied to EVs. This multiomics resource of cancer EVs can be leveraged for developing a multi-analyte approach for liquid biopsy.
PXD055014	39232011	Sortilin-mediated translocation of mitochondrial ACSL1 impairs adipocyte thermogenesis and energy expenditure in male mice. 	Sortilin-mediated translocation of mitochondrial ACSL1 impairs adipocyte thermogenesis and energy expenditure in male mice	ACSL1, Sortilin, thermogenesis	Beige fat activation involves a fuel switch to fatty acid oxidation following chronic cold adaptation. Mitochondrial acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1 (ACSL1) localizes in the mitochondria and plays a key role in fatty acid oxidation; however, the regulatory mechanism of the subcellular localization remains poorly understood. Here, we identify an endosomal trafficking component sortilin (encoded by Sort1) in adipose tissues that shows dynamic expression during beige fat activation and facilitates the translocation of ACSL1 from the mitochondria to the endolysosomal pathway for degradation. Depletion of sortilin in adipocytes results in an increase of mitochondrial ACSL1 and the activation of AMPK/PGC1alpha signaling, thereby activating beige fat and preventing high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity and insulin resistance. Collectively, our findings indicate that sortilin controls adipose tissue fatty acid oxidation by substrate fuel selection during beige fat activation and provides a potential targeted approach for the treatment of metabolic diseases.
PXD038386	39232161	CDK5-cyclin B1 regulates mitotic fidelity. 	CDK5-Cyclin B1 regulates mitotic progression and fidelity	1NM-PP1, CDK5, IMAC, RPE1, TMT, bRP fractionation, cell line, dTAG-13, phosphopeptides	CDK1 has been known to be the sole cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) partner of cyclin B1 to drive mitotic progression(1). Here we demonstrate that CDK5 is active during mitosis and is necessary for maintaining mitotic fidelity. CDK5 is an atypical CDK owing to its high expression in post-mitotic neurons and activation by non-cyclin proteins p35 and p39(2). Here, using independent chemical genetic approaches, we specifically abrogated CDK5 activity during mitosis, and observed mitotic defects, nuclear atypia and substantial alterations in the mitotic phosphoproteome. Notably, cyclin B1 is a mitotic co-factor of CDK5. Computational modelling, comparison with experimentally derived structures of CDK-cyclin complexes and validation with mutational analysis indicate that CDK5-cyclin B1 can form a functional complex. Disruption of the CDK5-cyclin B1 complex phenocopies CDK5 abrogation in mitosis. Together, our results demonstrate that cyclin B1 partners with both CDK5 and CDK1, and CDK5-cyclin B1 functions as a canonical CDK-cyclin complex to ensure mitotic fidelity.
PXD040662	39232464	Global and single-cell proteomics view of the co-evolution between neural progenitors and breast cancer cells in a co-culture model. 	Breast cancer cell lines in co-culture with hESC-derived nerual progenitor cells	Breast cancer, Orbitrap Fusion Eclipse, TMT 16-plex, cell lines, co-culture, hESC-derived neural progenitor cells	BACKGROUND: Presence of nerves in tumours, by axonogenesis and neurogenesis, is gaining increased attention for its impact on cancer initiation and development, and the new field of cancer neuroscience is emerging. A recent study in prostate cancer suggested that the tumour microenvironment may influence cancer progression by recruitment of Doublecortin (DCX)-expressing neural progenitor cells (NPCs). However, the presence of such cells in human breast tumours has not been comprehensively explored. METHODS: Here, we investigate the presence of DCX-expressing cells in breast cancer stromal tissue from patients using Imaging Mass Cytometry. Single-cell analysis of 372,468 cells across histopathological images of 107 breast cancers enabled spatial resolution of neural elements in the stromal compartment in correlation with clinicopathological features of these tumours. In parallel, we established a 3D in vitro model mimicking breast cancer neural progenitor-innervation and examined the two cell types as they co-evolved in co-culture by using mass spectrometry-based global proteomics. FINDINGS: Stromal presence of DCX + cells is associated with tumours of higher histological grade, a basal-like phenotype, and shorter patient survival in tumour tissue from patients with breast cancer. Global proteomics analysis revealed significant changes in the proteomic landscape of both breast cancer cells and neural progenitors in co-culture. INTERPRETATION: These results support that neural involvement plays an active role in breast cancer and warrants further studies on the relevance of nerve elements for tumour progression. FUNDING: This work was supported by the Research Council of Norway through its Centre of Excellence funding scheme, project number 223250 (to L.A.A), the Norwegian Cancer Society (to L.A.A. and H.V.), the Regional Health Trust Western Norway (Helse Vest) (to L.A.A.), the Meltzer Research Fund (to H.V.) and the National Institutes of Health (NIH)/NIGMS grant R01 GM132129 (to J.A.P.).
PXD053336	39232499	A chemical screen identifies PRMT5 as a therapeutic vulnerability for paclitaxel-resistant triple-negative breast cancer. 	A chemical screen identifies PRMT5 as a therapeutic vulnerability for paclitaxel-resistant triple-negative breast cancer	AURKB, PRMT5, RNA-splicing, TNBC, mitosis, paclitaxel-resistant	Paclitaxel-resistant triple negative breast cancer (TNBC) remains one of the most challenging breast cancers to treat. Here, using an epigenetic chemical probe screen, we uncover an acquired vulnerability of paclitaxel-resistant TNBC cells to protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs) inhibition. Analysis of cell lines and in-house clinical samples demonstrates that resistant cells evade paclitaxel killing through stabilizing mitotic chromatin assembly. Genetic or pharmacologic inhibition of PRMT5 alters RNA splicing, particularly intron retention of aurora kinases B (AURKB), leading to a decrease in protein expression, and finally results in selective mitosis catastrophe in paclitaxel-resistant cells. In addition, type I PRMT inhibition synergies with PRMT5 inhibition in suppressing tumor growth of drug-resistant cells through augmenting perturbation of AURKB-mediated mitotic signaling pathway. These findings are fully recapitulated in a patient-derived xenograft (PDX) model generated from a paclitaxel-resistant TNBC patient, providing the rationale for targeting PRMTs in paclitaxel-resistant TNBC.
PXD051967	39233478	Cell-Permeable Nicotinamide Adenine Dinucleotides for Exploration of Cellular Protein ADP-Ribosylation. 	Identification of ADP-ribosylation targets in living HeLa cells using cell-permeable NAD+ probes	ADP-ribosylation, HeLa cells, NAD+, affinity enrichment, cell-permeable probes	Posttranslational modifications (PTMs) greatly enhance the functional diversity of proteins, surpassing the number of gene-encoded variations. One intriguing PTM is ADP-ribosylation, which utilizes nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+) as a substrate and is essential in cell signaling pathways regulating cellular responses. Here, we report the first cell-permeable NAD+ analogs and demonstrate their utility for investigating cellular ADP-ribosylation. Using a desthiobiotin-labelled analog for affinity enrichment of proteins that are ADP-ribosylated in living cells under oxidative stress, we identified protein targets associated with host-virus interactions, DNA damage and repair, protein biosynthesis, and ribosome biogenesis. Most of these targets have been noted in various literature sources, highlighting the potential of our probes for cellular ADP-ribosylome studies.
PXD047623	39234310	Impact of a tailored exercise regimen on physical capacity and plasma proteome profile in post-COVID-19 condition. 	Impact of a tailored exercise regimen on physical capacity, systemic oxidative stress and plasma proteomic profile in PCC patients	Exercise, Fatigue, Long COVID, Oxidative stress, Physical activity, Physical capacity, Plasma proteomics, Post COVID-19 condition, Symptoms	Background: Individuals affected by the post-covid condition (PCC) show an increased fatigue and the so-called post-exertion malaise (PEM) that led health professionals to advise against exercise although accumulating evidence indicates the contrary. The goal of this study is to determine the impact of a closely monitored 8-week mixed exercise program on physical capacity, symptoms, fatigue, systemic oxidative stress and plasma proteomic profiles of PCC cases. Methods: Twenty-five women and men with PCC were assigned sequentially to exercise (n = 15) and non-exercise (n = 10) groups. Individuals with no PCC served as a control group. The exercise program included cardiovascular and resistance exercises. Physical capacity, physical activity level and the presence of common PCC symptoms were measured before and after the intervention. Fatigue was measured the day following each exercise session. Plasma and PBMC samples were collected at the beginning and end of the training program. Glutathione and deoxyguanosine levels in PBMC and plasma proteomic profiles were evaluated. Results: Bicep Curl (+15% vs 4%; p = 0.040) and Sit-to-Stand test (STS-30 (+31% vs +11%; p = 0.043)) showed improvement in the exercise group when compared to the non-exercise group. An interaction effect was also observed for the level of physical activity (p =0.007) with a positive effect of the program on their daily functioning and without any adverse effects on general or post-effort fatigue. After exercise, glutathione levels in PBMCs increased in women but remained unchanged in men. Discernable changes were observed in the plasma proteomics profile with certain proteins involved in inflammatory response decreasing in the exercise group. Conclusions: Supervised exercise adapted to the level of fatigue and ability is safe and effective in PCC patients in improving their general physical capacity and wellbeing. Systemic molecular markers that accompany physical improvement can be monitored by analyzing plasma proteomics and markers of oxidative stress. Large-scale studies will help identify promising molecular markers to objectively monitor patient improvement.
PXD049405	39235396	A semi-automated workflow for DIA-based global discovery to pathway-driven PRM analysis. 	A semi-automated workflow for DIA-based global discovery to pathway-driven PRM analysis	Bruker, DIA, PRM, TimsTOF, script, sem-automated	Targeted proteomics, which includes parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), is typically utilized for more precise detection and quantitation of key proteins and/or pathways derived from complex discovery proteomics datasets. Initial discovery-based analysis using data independent acquisition (DIA) can obtain deep proteome coverage with low data missingness while targeted PRM assays can provide additional benefits in further eliminating missing data and optimizing measurement precision. However, PRM method development from bioinformatic predictions can be tedious and time-consuming because of the DIA output complexity. We address this limitation with a Python script that rapidly generates a PRM method for the TIMS-TOF platform using DIA data and a user-defined target list. To evaluate the script, DIA data obtained from HeLa cell lysate (200 ng, 45-min gradient method) as well as canonical pathway information from Ingenuity Pathway Analysis was utilized to generate a pathway-driven PRM method. Subsequent PRM analysis of targets within the example pathway, regulation of apoptosis, resulted in improved chromatographic data and enhanced quantitation precision (100% peptides below 10% CV with a median CV of 2.9%, n = 3 technical replicates). The script is freely available at https://github.com/StevensOmicsLab/PRM-script and provides a framework that can be adapted to multiple DDA/DIA data outputs and instrument-specific PRM method types.
PXD053593	39237489	Rapid discovery and evolution of nanosensors containing fluorogenic amino acids. 	Nanosenors containing nonstandard amino acids	fluorogenic, nonstandard amino acids	Binding-activated optical sensors are powerful tools for imaging, diagnostics, and biomolecular sensing. However, biosensor discovery is slow and requires tedious steps in rational design, screening, and characterization. Here we report on a platform that streamlines biosensor discovery and unlocks directed nanosensor evolution through genetically encodable fluorogenic amino acids (FgAAs). Building on the classical knowledge-based semisynthetic approach, we engineer ~15 kDa nanosensors that recognize specific proteins, peptides, and small molecules with up to 100-fold fluorescence increases and subsecond kinetics, allowing real-time and wash-free target sensing and live-cell bioimaging. An optimized genetic code expansion chemistry with FgAAs further enables rapid (~3 h) ribosomal nanosensor discovery via the cell-free translation of hundreds of candidates in parallel and directed nanosensor evolution with improved variant-specific sensitivities (up to ~250-fold) for SARS-CoV-2 antigens. Altogether, this platform could accelerate the discovery of fluorogenic nanosensors and pave the way to modify proteins with other non-standard functionalities for diverse applications.
PXD043273	39237506	Exploring the structural landscape of DNA maintenance proteins. 	Exploring the structural landscape of DNA maintenance proteins	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), DNA damage repair, Human Proteome Project, Protein folding, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP)	Evolutionary annotation of genome maintenance (GM) proteins has conventionally been established by remote relationships within protein sequence databases. However, often no significant relationship can be established. Highly sensitive approaches to attain remote homologies based on iterative profile-to-profile methods have been developed. Still, these methods have not been systematically applied in the evolutionary annotation of GM proteins. Here, by applying profile-to-profile models, we systematically survey the repertoire of GM proteins from bacteria to man. We identify multiple GM protein candidates and annotate domains in numerous established GM proteins, among other PARP, OB-fold, Macro, TUDOR, SAP, BRCT, KU, MYB (SANT), and nuclease domains. We experimentally validate OB-fold and MIS18 (Yippee) domains in SPIDR and FAM72 protein families, respectively. Our results indicate that, surprisingly, despite the immense interest and long-term research efforts, the repertoire of genome stability caretakers is still not fully appreciated.
PXD053484	39238237	Minimized dark consumption of Calvin cycle intermediates facilitates the initiation of photosynthesis in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. 	Syn6803 Pyk-ox under light and dark	Synechocystis, pyruvate kinase	Cyanobacteria intricately regulate their metabolic pathways during the diurnal cycle to ensure survival and growth. Under dark conditions, the breakdown of glycogen, an energy reserve, in these organisms replenishes Calvin cycle intermediates, especially downstream glycolytic metabolites, which are necessary for photosynthesis initiation upon light irradiation. However, it remains unclear how the accumulation of these intermediates is maintained in the dark despite limited glycogen availability. Therefore, in this study, we investigated the regulation of downstream glycolytic metabolites of the Calvin cycle under dark and light treatment using Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. Our results showed that during the dark period, low pyruvate kinase (Pyk) activity ensured metabolite accumulation, while endogenous Pyk overexpression significantly lowered the accumulation of glycolytic intermediates. Remarkably, wild type Synechocystis maintained oxygen evolution ability throughout dark treatment for over 2 d, while Pyk overexpression resulted in decreased oxygen evolution after 16 h of dark treatment. These results indicated that limiting Pyk activity via darkness treatment facilitates photosynthetic initiation by maintaining glycolytic intermediates. Similarly, phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PepC) overexpression decreased oxygen evolution under dark treatment; however, its effect was lower than that of Pyk. Further, we noted that as PepC overexpression decreased the levels of glycolytic intermediates in the dark, sugar phosphates in the Calvin-Benson-Bassham (CBB) cycle showed high accumulation, suggesting that sugar phosphates play important roles in supporting photosynthesis initiation. Therefore, our study highlights the importance of controlling the metabolic pathways through which glycolytic and CBB cycle intermediates are consumed (defined as cataplerosis of CBB cycle) to ensure stable photosynthesis.
PXD053684	39240120	Transgenic overexpression of bmo-miR-6498-5p increases resistance to Nosema bombycis in the silkworm, Bombyx mori. 	Transgenic overexpression of bmo-miR-6498-5p increases resistance to Nosema bombycis in the silkworm, Bombyx mori	N. bombycis, Transgenic silkworm, VB6 metabolism, miR-6498-5p, resistance	Microsporidia are unfriendly microorganisms, and their infections cause considerable damage to economically or environmentally important insects like silkworms and honeybees. Thus, the identification of measures to improve host resistance to microsporidia infections is critically needed. Here, an overexpressed miR-6498-5p transgenic silkworm line was constructed. Importantly, the survival rates and median lethal doses of the transgenic line were clearly higher after infection with Nosema bombycis. H&E staining and RT-qPCR analyses revealed an inhibitory effect on the proliferation of N. bombycis in the transgenic larvae. Metabolomics analysis further revealed the presence of 56 differential metabolites between the two lines. KEGG analysis of these 56 metabolites found that they were involved in various amino acid and vitamin metabolism pathways. Notably, VB6 metabolism was enriched among the metabolites, and the pathway was well known for its involvement in the synthesis, interconversion, and degradation of amino acids. These suggest that miR-6498-5p modifies parasitic environments to inhibit the proliferation of N. bombycis by affecting the host amino acid metabolism. These results demonstrate the potential of microRNAs as biomolecules that can promote resistance to microsporidia and provide new insights and a new approach to generate microsporidia-resistant biological materials.IMPORTANCEMicrosporidia have an extremely wide host range and are capable of infecting a wide variety of insects and vertebrates, including humans, and their lethality to multiple species often poses significant environmental management challenge. Here, we successfully constructed a microsporidium-resistant line in the silkworm, based on the overexpression of miR-6498-5p. Our results strongly support the hypothesis that miR-6498-5p efficiently suppresses the proliferation of Nosema bombycis by regulating the host VB6 metabolism, a key pathway for enzymes involved in amino acid transport and protein metabolism. Our study provides new insights for understanding host anti-pathogen defenses toward microsporidia.
PXD020317	39242818	An intranuclear bacterial parasite of deep-sea mussels expresses apoptosis inhibitors acquired from its host. 	Metaproteomes of the ciliated edge from the gill filaments of the deep-sea mussel "Bathymodiolus" childressi infected by Ca. Endonucleobacter	Endozoicomonas, IpgD, T3SS, apoptosis inhibitors, chitin, chromatin, cytoskeleton disentanglement, intranuclear parasite, laser capture microdissection, lipid droplets, metaproteome, metaproteomics	A limited number of bacteria are able to colonize the nuclei of eukaryotes. 'Candidatus Endonucleobacter' infects the nuclei of deep-sea mussels, where it replicates to >=80,000 bacteria per nucleus and causes nuclei to swell to 50 times their original size. How these parasites are able to replicate and avoid apoptosis is not known. Dual RNA-sequencing transcriptomes of infected nuclei isolated using laser-capture microdissection revealed that 'Candidatus Endonucleobacter' does not obtain most of its nutrition from nuclear DNA or RNA. Instead, 'Candidatus Endonucleobacter' upregulates genes for importing and digesting sugars, lipids, amino acids and possibly mucin from its host. It likely prevents apoptosis of host cells by upregulating 7-13 inhibitors of apoptosis, proteins not previously seen in bacteria. Comparative phylogenetic analyses revealed that 'Ca. Endonucleobacter' acquired inhibitors of apoptosis through horizontal gene transfer from their hosts. Horizontal gene transfer from eukaryotes to bacteria is assumed to be rare, but may be more common than currently recognized.
PXD050886	39243606	Bacterial community structure and metabolomic profiles of yak milk and cattle-yak milk during refrigeration in Gannan region: Analysis of interspecific differences in milk spoilage. 	Bacterial community structure and metabolomic pathways in yak milk and cattle-yak milk during refrigeration: analysis of interspecific differences in dairy spoilage	bacterial community succession, cattle-yak milk, metabolite, refrigeration, yak milk	The bacterial community dynamics and metabolomic profiles in raw yak (Y) milk and cattle-yak (CY) milk during refrigeration at 4 degreesC were investigated, followed by the elucidation of interspecific differences in milk storage. Bacterial communities and succession patterns were significantly different between the two milk types during refrigeration, with Lactococcus and Pseudomonas being the key distinguishing genera. Moreover, higher network complexity and tighter interactions were observed for the microbial community in CY milk than in Y milk. Furthermore, 7 proteases and 1 lipase potentially contributed to milk spoilage. The metabolomic profiles significantly differed between the milk types during refrigeration. Extended storage time decreased the relative abundances of organic nitrogen compounds and lipids and lipid-like molecules, with a concomitant increase in organic acids and derivatives, particularly in Y milk. Moreover, 9 metabolites, whose levels gradually increased with storage time, were strongly correlated with psychrophiles and thus considered potential markers of deterioration in plateau-characteristic milk. These findings offer a theoretical foundation for augmenting the quality and safety of plateau-characteristic milk and its derivatives, while also helping us understand the microbial and metabolic dynamics in raw milk under extreme environments.
PXD042276	39243857	ZASP: A highly compatible and sensitive ZnCl2-precipitation assisted sample preparation method for proteomic analysis. 	ZASPA Robust Method for Proteomics Sample Preparation	ZASP, sample preparation	Universal sample preparation for proteomic analysis that enables unbiased protein manipulation, flexible reagent use, and low protein loss is required to ensure the highest sensitivity of downstream liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) analysis. To address these needs, we developed a ZnCl2 precipitation-assisted sample preparation method (ZASP) that depletes harsh detergents and impurities in protein solutions prior to trypsin digestion via 10 min of ZnCl2 and methanol-induced protein precipitation at room temperature (RT). ZASP can remove trypsin digestion and LC-MS incompatible detergents such as SDS, Triton X-100, and urea at high concentrations in solution and unbiasedly recover proteins independent of the amount of protein input. We demonstrated the sensitivity and reproducibility of ZASP in an analysis of samples with 1 mug to 1000 mug of proteins. Compared to commonly used sample preparation methods such as SDC-based in-solution digestion, acetone precipitation, FASP, and SP3, ZASP has proven to be an efficient approach. Here, we present ZASP, a practical, robust, and cost-effective proteomic sample preparation method that can be applied to profile different types of samples.
PXD050802	39244567	Mitigation of synaptic and memory impairments via F-actin stabilization in Alzheimer's disease. 	study of actin interactome in Alzheimers disease mouse model	Alzheimers disease, F-Actin loss, synapse	BACKGROUND: Synaptic dysfunction, characterized by synapse loss and structural alterations, emerges as a prominent correlate of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Actin cytoskeleton, which serves as the structural backbone of synaptic architecture, is observed to be lost from synapses in AD. Actin cytoskeleton loss compromises synaptic integrity, affecting glutamatergic receptor levels, neurotransmission, and synaptic strength. Understanding these molecular changes is crucial for developing interventions targeting synaptic dysfunction, potentially mitigating cognitive decline in AD. METHODS: In this study, we investigated the synaptic actin interactome using mass spectrometry in a mouse model of AD, APP/PS1. Our objective was to explore how alterations in synaptic actin dynamics, particularly the interaction between PSD-95 and actin, contribute to synaptic and cognitive impairment in AD. To assess the impact of restoring F-actin levels on synaptic and cognitive functions in APP/PS1 mice, we administered F-actin stabilizing agent, jasplakinolide. Behavioral deficits in the mice were evaluated using the contextual fear conditioning paradigm. We utilized primary neuronal cultures to study the synaptic levels of AMPA and NMDA receptors and the dynamics of PSD-95 actin association. Furthermore, we analyzed postmortem brain tissue samples from subjects with no cognitive impairment (NCI), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and Alzheimer's dementia (AD) to determine the association between PSD-95 and actin. RESULTS: We found a significant reduction in PSD-95-actin association in synaptosomes from middle-aged APP/PS1 mice compared to wild-type (WT) mice. Treatment with jasplakinolide, an actin stabilizer, reversed deficits in memory recall, restored PSD-95-actin association, and increased synaptic F-actin levels in APP/PS1 mice. Additionally, actin stabilization led to elevated synaptic levels of AMPA and NMDA receptors, enhanced dendritic spine density, suggesting improved neurotransmission and synaptic strength in primary cortical neurons from APP/PS1 mice. Furthermore, analysis of postmortem human tissue with NCI, MCI and AD subjects revealed disrupted PSD-95-actin interactions, underscoring the clinical relevance of our preclinical studies. CONCLUSION: Our study elucidates disrupted PSD-95 actin interactions across different models, highlighting potential therapeutic targets for AD. Stabilizing F-actin restores synaptic integrity and ameliorates cognitive deficits in APP/PS1 mice, suggesting that targeting synaptic actin regulation could be a promising therapeutic strategy to mitigate cognitive decline in AD.
PXD054131	39244606	Integrated landscape of plasma metabolism and proteome of patients with post-traumatic deep vein thrombosis. 	Integrated Landscape of Plasma Metabolism and Proteome for Post-traumatic Deep Vein Thrombosisasma Metabolism and Proteome for Post-traumatic Deep Vein Thrombosis	DVT, LC-MS, Metabolomics, Plasma	Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality after trauma. Here, we integrate plasma metabolomics and proteomics to evaluate the metabolic alterations and their function in up to 680 individuals with and without DVT after trauma (pt-DVT). We identify 28 metabolites and 2 clinical parameter clusters associated with pt-DVT. Then, we develop a panel of 9 metabolites (hexadecanedioic acid, pyruvic acid, L-Carnitine, serotonin, PE(P-18:1(11Z)/18:2(9Z,12Z)), 3-Hydroxycapric acid, 5,6-DHET, 3-Methoxybenzenepropanoic acid and pentanenitrile) that can predict pt-DVT with high performance, which can be verified in an independent cohort. Furthermore, the integration analysis of metabolomics and proteomics data indicates that the upregulation of glycolysis/gluconeogenesis-TCA cycle may promote thrombosis by regulating ROS levels in red blood cells, suggesting that interfering with this process might be potential therapeutic strategies for pt-DVT. Together, our study comprehensively delineates the metabolic and hematological dysregulations for pt-DVT, and provides potential biomarkers for early detection.
PXD050155	39245717	Drug-induced oxidative stress actively prevents caspase activation and hepatocyte apoptosis. 	Drug-induced oxidative stress actively prevents caspase activation and hepatocyte apoptosis	Paracetamol/APAP, apoptosis, caspases, glutathione, necrosis, oxidative stress	Cell death is a fundamental process in health and disease. Emerging research shows the existence of numerous distinct cell death modalities with similar and intertwined signaling pathways, but resulting in different cellular outcomes, raising the need to understand the decision-making steps during cell death signaling. Paracetamol (Acetaminophen, APAP)-induced hepatocyte death includes several apoptotic processes but eventually is executed by oncotic necrosis without any caspase activation. Here, we studied this paradoxical form of cell death and revealed that APAP not only fails to activate caspases but also strongly impedes their activation upon classical apoptosis induction, thereby shifting apoptosis to necrosis. While APAP intoxication results in massive drop in mitochondrial respiration, low cellular ATP levels could be excluded as an underlying cause of missing apoptosome formation and caspase activation. In contrast, we identified oxidative stress as a key factor in APAP-induced caspase inhibition. Importantly, caspase inhibition and the associated switch from apoptotic to necrotic cell death was reversible through the administration of antioxidants. Thus, exemplified by APAP-induced cell death, our study stresses that cellular redox status is a critical component in the decision-making between apoptotic and necrotic cell death, as it directly affects caspase activity.
PXD046495	39246443	Lactylome analysis reveals potential target modified proteins in the retina of form-deprivation myopia. 	Lactylome analysis reveals potential target modified proteins in the retina of form-deprivation myopia	aerobic glycolysis, form-deprivation myopia, lactate, lysine lactylation, retina	The biological mechanisms underlying the development of myopia have not yet been completely elucidated. The retina is critical for visual signal processing, which primarily utilizes aerobic glycolysis to produce lactate as a metabolic end product. Lactate facilitates lysine lactylation (Kla), a posttranslational modification essential for transcriptional regulation. This study found increased glycolytic flux and lactate accumulation in the retinas of form-deprived myopic guinea pigs. Subsequently, a comprehensive analysis of Kla levels in retinal proteins revealed that Kla was upregulated at 124 sites in 92 proteins and downregulated at three sites in three proteins. Functional enrichment and protein interaction analyses showed significant enrichment in pathways related to energy metabolism, including glutathione metabolism, glycolysis, and the hypoxia-inducible factor-1 signaling pathway. Parallel-reaction monitoring confirmed data reliability. These findings suggest a connection between myopia and retinal energy metabolism imbalance, providing new insights into the pathogenesis of myopia.
PXD034586	39248287	EGFR and EGFRvIII coopt host defense pathways, promoting progression in glioblastoma. 	EGFR and EGFRvIII coopt host defense pathways, promoting progression in glioblastoma	LFQ, cancer, glioblastoma, phosphorylation	BACKGROUND: Co-amplification of EGFR and EGFRvIII, a tumor-specific truncation mutant of EGFR, represent hallmark genetic lesions in glioblastoma. METHODS: We used phospho-proteomics, RNA-sequencing, TCGA data and glioblastoma cell culture and mouse models to study the signal transduction mediated by EGFR and EGFRvIII. RESULTS: We report that EGFR and EGFRvIII stimulate the innate immune defense receptor Toll-like Receptor 2 (TLR2); and that knockout of TLR2 dramatically improved survival in orthotopic glioblastoma xenografts. EGFR and EGFRvIII activated TLR2 in a ligand-independent manner, promoting tumor growth and immune evasion. We show that EGFR and EGFRvIII cooperate to activate the Rho-associated protein kinase ROCK2, which modulated malignant progression both by activating TLR2 and WNT signaling, and through remodeling the tumor microenvironment. CONCLUSION: Together, our findings show that EGFR and EGFRvIII cooperate to drive tumor progression through ROCK2 and downstream WNT-beta-catenin/TLR2 signaling pathways.
PXD051318	39248652	A Framework for Quality Control in Quantitative Proteomics. 	A framework for quality control in quantitative proteomics	DDA, DIA, PRM, liquid chromatography, quality control, quantitative results, sample preparation, system suitability	A thorough evaluation of the quality, reproducibility, and variability of bottom-up proteomics data is necessary at every stage of a workflow, from planning to analysis. We share vignettes applying adaptable quality control (QC) measures to assess sample preparation, system function, and quantitative analysis. System suitability samples are repeatedly measured longitudinally with targeted methods, and we share examples where they are used on three instrument platforms to identify severe system failures and track function over months to years. Internal QCs incorporated at the protein and peptide levels allow our team to assess sample preparation issues and to differentiate system failures from sample-specific issues. External QC samples prepared alongside our experimental samples are used to verify the consistency and quantitative potential of our results during batch correction and normalization before assessing biological phenotypes. We combine these controls with rapid analysis (Skyline), longitudinal QC metrics (AutoQC), and server-based data deposition (PanoramaWeb). We propose that this integrated approach to QC is a useful starting point for groups to facilitate rapid quality control assessment to ensure that valuable instrument time is used to collect the best quality data possible. Data are available on Panorama Public and ProteomeXchange under the identifier PXD051318.
PXD051983	39250150	Lost in translation? Evidence for a muted proteomic response to thermal stress in a stenothermal Antarctic fish and possible evolutionary mechanisms. 	Lost in translation? Proteomic evidence  for a muted molecular response to thermal stress in a stenothermal Antarctic fish and possible evolutionary mechanisms	Cellular stress response, DIA, Ecological proteomics, Heat shock response, Integrative stress response, Quantitative proteomics, Stenothermy, Thermal stress	Stenothermal Antarctic notothenioid fishes are noteworthy for their history of isolation in extreme cold and their corresponding lack of the canonical heat shock response. Despite extensive transcriptomic studies, the mechanistic basis for stenothermy has not been fully elucidated. Given that the proteome better represents an organism's physiology, the possibility exists that some aspects of stenothermy arise post-transcriptionally. Here, Antarctic emerald rockcod (Trematomus bernacchii) were sampled after exposure to chronic and/or acute high temperatures, followed by thorough assessment of proteomic responses in brain, gill, and kidney. Few cellular stress response proteins were induced, and overall responses were modest in terms of numbers of differentially expressed proteins and their fold changes. Inconsistencies in protein induction across treatments and tissues are suggestive of dysregulation, rather than an adaptive response. Changes in regulation of the translational machinery in Antarctic notothenioids could explain these patterns. Some components of translational regulatory pathways are highly conserved (e.g., Ser-52 of eIF2alpha), but proteins comprising the cellular "integrative stress response" - specifically, the eIF2alpha kinases GCN2 and PERK - may have evolved along different trajectories in Antarctic fishes. Taken together, these observations suggest a novel hypothesis for stenothermy and the absence of a coordinated cellular stress response in Antarctic fishes.
PXD034980	39251576	Cytosolic FKBPL and ER-resident CKAP4 co-regulates ER-phagy and protein secretion. 	LC-MS MS of Interactome of overexpressed FKBPL in HEK293T cells		Endoplasmic reticulum quality control is crucial for maintaining cellular homeostasis and adapting to stress conditions. Although several ER-phagy receptors have been identified, the collaboration between cytosolic and ER-resident factors in ER fragmentation and ER-phagy regulation remains unclear. Here, we perform a phenotype-based gain-of-function screen and identify a cytosolic protein, FKBPL, functioning as an ER-phagy regulator. Overexpression of FKBPL triggers ER fragmentation and ER-phagy. FKBPL has multiple protein binding domains, can self-associate and might act as a scaffold connecting CKAP4 and LC3/GABARAPs. CKAP4 serves as a bridge between FKBPL and ER-phagy cargo. ER-phagy-inducing conditions increase FKBPL-CKAP4 interaction followed by FKBPL oligomerization at the ER, leading to ER-phagy. In addition, FKBPL-CKAP4 deficiency leads to Golgi disassembly and lysosome impairment, and an increase in ER-derived secretory vesicles and enhances cytosolic protein secretion via microvesicle shedding. Taken together, FKBPL with the aid of CKAP4 induces ER fragmentation and ER-phagy, and FKBPL-CKAP4 deficiency facilitates protein secretion.
PXD051771	39251588	Defective N-glycosylation of IL6 induces metastasis and tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance in lung cancer. 	N-Glycosylation-Defective IL6 Alternatively Activates the SRC-YAP-SOX2 Axis to Drive Metastasis and EGFR TKI Resistance	EGFR-TKI resistance, EMT, IL6, SRC, YAP, glycosylation, lung cancer, metastasis	The IL6-GP130-STAT3 pathway facilitates lung cancer progression and resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors. Although glycosylation alters the stability of GP130, its effect on the ligand IL6 remains unclear. We herein find that N-glycosylated IL6, especially at Asn73, primarily stimulates JAK-STAT3 signaling and prolongs STAT3 phosphorylation, whereas N-glycosylation-defective IL6 (deNG-IL6) induces shortened STAT3 activation and alters the downstream signaling preference for the SRC-YAP-SOX2 axis. This signaling shift induces epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and migration in vitro and metastasis in vivo, which are suppressed by targeted inhibitors and shRNAs against SRC, YAP, and SOX2. Osimertinib-resistant lung cancer cells secrete a large amount of deNG-IL6 through reduced N-glycosyltransferase gene expression, leading to clear SRC-YAP activation. deNG-IL6 contributes to drug resistance, as confirmed by in silico analysis of cellular and clinical transcriptomes and signal expression in patient specimens. Therefore, the N-glycosylation status of IL6 not only affects cell behaviors but also shows promise in monitoring the dynamics of lung cancer evolution.
PXD045866	39252970	Etomoxir repurposed as a promiscuous fatty acid mimetic chemoproteomic probe. 	Etomoxir as a Promiscuous Chemoproteomic Probe.	Cpt1, Etomoxir, Fatty Acid Oxidation, Liver	Etomoxir has been used for decades as a popular small molecule inhibitor of carnitine palmitoyltransferase I, Cpt1, to block mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation. To test the specificity of etomoxir, we generated click chemistry-enabled reagents to label etomoxir binding proteins in situ. Etomoxir bound to Cpt1, but also bound to a large array of diverse proteins that metabolize and transport fatty acids in the cytoplasm, peroxisome, and mitochondria. Many of the most abundant proteins identified in primary hepatocytes were peroxisomal proteins. The loss of Pex5, required for the import of peroxisomal matrix proteins, eliminated many of these etomoxir-labeled proteins. By utilizing the promiscuous, covalent, and fatty acid mimetic properties of etomoxir, etomoxir targets of fatty acid omega-oxidation were revealed following the loss of Pex5. These data demonstrate that etomoxir is not specific for Cpt1 and is not appropriate as a tool to distinguish the biological effects of fatty acid oxidation.
PXD045863	39253524	Muscle growth differences in Lijiang pigs revealed by ATAC-seq multi-omics. 	Raw data of DIA proteome in large and small body Lijiang pigs	DIA, Lijiang pigs	As one of the largest tissues in the animal body, skeletal muscle plays a pivotal role in the production and quality of pork. Consequently, it is of paramount importance to investigate the growth and developmental processes of skeletal muscle. Lijiang pigs, which naturally have two subtypes, fast-growing and slow-growing, provide an ideal model for such studies by eliminating breed-related influences. In this study, we selected three fast-growing and three slow-growing 6-month-old Lijiang pigs as subjects. We utilized assay for transposase-accessible chromatin with sequencing (ATAC-seq) combined with genomics, RNA sequencing, and proteomics to screen for differentially expressed genes and transcription factors linked to increased longissimus dorsi muscle volume in Lijiang pigs. We identified 126 genes through ATAC-seq, including PPARA, TNRC6B, NEDD1, and FKBP5, that exhibited differential expression patterns during muscle growth. Additionally, we identified 59 transcription factors, including Foxh1, JunB, Mef2 family members (Mef2a/b/c/d), NeuroD1, and TEAD4. By examining open chromatin regions (OCRs) with significant genetic differentiation, genes such as SAV1, CACNA1H, PRKCG, and FGFR4 were found. Integrating ATAC-seq with transcriptomics and transcriptomics with proteomics, we identified differences in open chromatin regions, transcription, and protein levels of FKBP5 and SCARB2 genes in fast-growing and slow-growing Lijiang pigs. Utilizing multi-omics analysis with R packages, we jointed ATAC-seq, transcriptome, and proteome datasets, identifying enriched pathways related to glycogen metabolism and skeletal muscle cell differentiation. We pinpointed genes such as MYF6 and HABP2 that exhibit strong correlations across these diverse data types. This study provides a multi-faceted understanding of the molecular mechanisms that lead to differences in pig muscle fiber growth.
PXD041440	39255801	Targeting Ras-, Rho-, and Rab-family GTPases via a conserved cryptic pocket. 	Using HDX-MS to study Rab and Ral covalently bound to MRTX1257	Gtpase, HDX, HDX-MS, Rab, Ral	The family of Ras-like GTPases consists of over 150 different members, regulated by an even larger number of guanine exchange factors (GEFs) and GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) that comprise cellular switch networks that govern cell motility, growth, polarity, protein trafficking, and gene expression. Efforts to develop selective small molecule probes and drugs for these proteins have been hampered by the high affinity of guanosine triphosphate (GTP) and lack of allosteric regulatory sites. This paradigm was recently challenged by the discovery of a cryptic allosteric pocket in the switch II region of K-Ras. Here, we ask whether similar pockets are present in GTPases beyond K-Ras. We systematically surveyed members of the Ras, Rho, and Rab family of GTPases and found that many GTPases exhibit targetable switch II pockets. Notable differences in the composition and conservation of key residues offer potential for the development of optimized inhibitors for many members of this previously undruggable family.
PXD045466	39256561	The fitness cost of spurious phosphorylation. 	The fitness cost of spurious phosphorylation	LCMS, phosphotyrosine, spurious	The fidelity of signal transduction requires the binding of regulatory molecules to their cognate targets. However, the crowded cell interior risks off-target interactions between proteins that are functionally unrelated. How such off-target interactions impact fitness is not generally known. Here, we use Saccharomyces cerevisiae to inducibly express tyrosine kinases. Because yeast lacks bona fide tyrosine kinases, the resulting tyrosine phosphorylation is biologically spurious. We engineered 44 yeast strains each expressing a tyrosine kinase, and quantitatively analysed their phosphoproteomes. This analysis resulted in ~30,000 phosphosites mapping to ~3500 proteins. The number of spurious pY sites generated correlates strongly with decreased growth, and we predict over 1000 pY events to be deleterious. However, we also find that many of the spurious pY sites have a negligible effect on fitness, possibly because of their low stoichiometry. This result is consistent with our evolutionary analyses demonstrating a lack of phosphotyrosine counter-selection in species with tyrosine kinases. Our results suggest that, alongside the risk for toxicity, the cell can tolerate a large degree of non-functional crosstalk as interaction networks evolve.
PXD050652	39256562	The global phosphorylation landscape of mouse oocytes during meiotic maturation. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of RPL12 mutant and WT mouse oocytes	DIA, Oocyte, Quantitative proteomics, RPL12	Phosphorylation is a key post-translational modification regulating protein function and biological outcomes. However, the phosphorylation dynamics orchestrating mammalian oocyte development remains poorly understood. In the present study, we apply high-resolution mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics to obtain the first global in vivo quantification of mouse oocyte phosphorylation. Of more than 8000 phosphosites, 75% significantly oscillate and 64% exhibit marked upregulation during meiotic maturation, indicative of the dominant regulatory role. Moreover, we identify numerous novel phosphosites on oocyte proteins and a few highly conserved phosphosites in oocytes from different species. Through functional perturbations, we demonstrate that phosphorylation status of specific sites participates in modulating critical events including metabolism, translation, and RNA processing during meiosis. Finally, we combine inhibitor screening and enzyme-substrate network prediction to discover previously unexplored kinases and phosphatases that are essential for oocyte maturation. In sum, our data define landscape of the oocyte phosphoproteome, enabling in-depth mechanistic insights into developmental control of germ cells.
PXD053789	39257029	Molecular Profiling Defines Three Subtypes of Synovial Sarcoma. 	Molecular Profiling Defines Three Subtypes of Synovial Sarcoma	Molecular Subtypes, Multi-Omic, Synovial Sarcoma, Transcriptomics	Synovial Sarcomas (SS) are characterized by the presence of the SS18::SSX fusion gene, which protein product induce chromatin changes through remodeling of the BAF complex. To elucidate the genomic events that drive phenotypic diversity in SS, we performed RNA and targeted DNA sequencing on 91 tumors from 55 patients. Our results were verified by proteomic analysis, public gene expression cohorts and single-cell RNA sequencing. Transcriptome profiling identified three distinct SS subtypes resembling the known histological subtypes: SS subtype I and was characterized by hyperproliferation, evasion of immune detection and a poor prognosis. SS subtype II and was dominated by a vascular-stromal component and had a significantly better outcome. SS Subtype III was characterized by biphasic differentiation, increased genomic complexity and immune suppression mediated by checkpoint inhibition, and poor prognosis despite good responses to neoadjuvant therapy. Chromosomal abnormalities were an independent significant risk factor for metastasis. KRT8 was identified as a key component for epithelial differentiation in biphasic tumors, potentially controlled by OVOL1 regulation. Our findings explain the histological grounds for SS classification and indicate that a significantly larger proportion of patients have high risk tumors (corresponding to SS subtype I) than previously believed.
PXD062002	39257774	Sec18 side-loading is essential for universal SNARE recycling across cellular contexts. 	XL-MS of Sec18 and SNAREs in S. cerevisiae	SNAREs, Sec18	SNARE proteins drive membrane fusion as their core domains zipper into a parallel four-helix bundle (1,2) . After fusion, these bundles are disassembled by the AAA+ protein Sec18/NSF and its adaptor Sec17/ alpha-SNAP (3,4) to make them available for subsequent rounds of membrane fusion. SNARE domains are often flanked by C-terminal transmembrane or N-terminal domains (5) . Previous structures of the NSF-alpha-SNAP-SNARE complex revealed SNARE domain threaded through the D1 ATPase ring (6) , posing a topological constraint as SNARE transmembrane domains would prevent complete substrate threading as suggested for other AAA+ systems (7) . Here, in vivo mass-spectrometry reveals N-terminal SNARE domain interactions with Sec18, exacerbating this topological issue. Cryo-EM structures of a yeast SNARE complex, Sec18, and Sec17 in a non-hydrolyzing condition shows SNARE Sso1 threaded through the D1 and D2 ATPase rings of Sec18, with its folded, N-terminal Habc domain interacting with the D2 ring. This domain does not unfold during Sec18/NSF activity. Cryo-EM structures under hydrolyzing conditions revealed substrate-released and substrate-free states of Sec18 with a coordinated opening in the side of the ATPase rings. Thus, Sec18/NSF operates by substrate side-loading and unloading topologically constrained SNARE substrates.
PXD054497	39257804	Structural and systems characterization of phosphorylation on metabolic enzymes identifies sex-specific metabolic reprogramming in obesity. 	Structural and systems characterization of phosphorylation on metabolic enzymes identifies sex-specific metabolic reprogramming in obesity	Cell Signaling, LC-MS, Metabolism, Metabolomics, Obesity, Phosphoproteomics	Coordination of adaptive metabolism through cellular signaling networks and metabolic response is essential for balanced flow of energy and homeostasis. Post-translational modifications such as phosphorylation offer a rapid, efficient, and dynamic mechanism to regulate metabolic networks. Although numerous phosphorylation sites have been identified on metabolic enzymes, much remains unknown about their contribution to enzyme function and systemic metabolism. In this study, we stratify phosphorylation sites on metabolic enzymes based on their location with respect to functional and dimerization domains. Our analysis reveals that the majority of published phosphosites are on oxidoreductases, with particular enrichment of phosphotyrosine (pY) sites in proximity to binding domains for substrates, cofactors, active sites, or dimer interfaces. We identify phosphosites altered in obesity using a high fat diet (HFD) induced obesity model coupled to multiomics, and interrogate the functional impact of pY on hepatic metabolism. HFD induced dysregulation of redox homeostasis and reductive metabolism at the phosphoproteome and metabolome level in a sex-specific manner, which was reversed by supplementing with the antioxidant butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA). Partial least squares regression (PLSR) analysis identified pY sites that predict HFD or BHA induced changes of redox metabolites. We characterize predictive pY sites on glutathione S-transferase pi 1 (GSTP1), isocitrate dehydrogenase 1 (IDH1), and uridine monophosphate synthase (UMPS) using CRISPRi-rescue and stable isotope tracing. Our analysis revealed that sites on GSTP1 and UMPS inhibit enzyme activity while the pY site on IDH1 induces activity to promote reductive carboxylation. Overall, our approach provides insight into the convergence points where cellular signaling fine-tunes metabolism. Summary Statement: By employing a multi-disciplinary approach we stratify structural features of phosphorylation sites on metabolic enzymes, map the systems level changes induced by obesity, identify key pathways with sex specific phosphoproteomic responses, and validate the functional role of phosphorylation sites for select enzymes.
PXD044052	39258545	CRISPR screening uncovers nucleolar RPL22 as a heterochromatin destabilizer and senescence driver. 	LC-MS/MS identification of RPL22 interaction proteins	RPL22	Dysfunction of the ribosome manifests during cellular senescence and contributes to tissue aging, functional decline, and development of aging-related disorders in ways that have remained enigmatic. Here, we conducted a comprehensive CRISPR-based loss-of-function (LOF) screen of ribosome-associated genes (RAGs) in human mesenchymal progenitor cells (hMPCs). Through this approach, we identified ribosomal protein L22 (RPL22) as the foremost RAG whose deficiency mitigates the effects of cellular senescence. Consequently, absence of RPL22 delays hMPCs from becoming senescent, while an excess of RPL22 accelerates the senescence process. Mechanistically, we found in senescent hMPCs, RPL22 accumulates within the nucleolus. This accumulation triggers a cascade of events, including heterochromatin decompaction with concomitant degradation of key heterochromatin proteins, specifically heterochromatin protein 1gamma (HP1gamma) and heterochromatin protein KRAB-associated protein 1 (KAP1). Subsequently, RPL22-dependent breakdown of heterochromatin stimulates the transcription of ribosomal RNAs (rRNAs), triggering cellular senescence. In summary, our findings unveil a novel role for nucleolar RPL22 as a destabilizer of heterochromatin and a driver of cellular senescence, shedding new light on the intricate mechanisms underlying the aging process.
PXD040457	39259813	HIF-2alpha drives hepatic Kupffer cell death and proinflammatory recruited macrophage activation in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis. 	HIF-2a drives hepatic Kupffer cell death and liver inflammation in nonalcoholic steatohepatitis	HIF-2a, Hypoxia, Inflammation/Metaflammation, Kupffer Cell Death, Macrophage, Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD), Nonalcoholic Steatohepatitis (NASH), Obesity, Proinflammatory Macrophage Activation	Proinflammatory hepatic macrophage activation plays a key role in the development of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). This involves increased embryonic hepatic Kupffer cell (KC) death, facilitating the replacement of KCs with bone marrow-derived recruited hepatic macrophages (RHMs) that highly express proinflammatory genes. Moreover, phago/efferocytic activity of KCs is diminished in NASH, enhancing liver inflammation. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying these changes in KCs are not known. Here, we show that hypoxia-inducible factor 2alpha (HIF-2alpha) mediates NASH-associated decreased KC growth and efferocytosis by enhancing lysosomal stress. At the molecular level, HIF-2alpha stimulated mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR)- and extracellular signal-regulated kinase-dependent inhibitory transcription factor EB (TFEB) phosphorylation, leading to decreased lysosomal and phagocytic gene expression. With increased metabolic stress and phago/efferocytic burden in NASH, these changes were sufficient to increase lysosomal stress, causing decreased efferocytosis and lysosomal cell death. Of interest, HIF-2alpha-dependent TFEB regulation only occurred in KCs but not RHMs. Instead, in RHMs, HIF-2alpha promoted mitochondrial reactive oxygen species production and proinflammatory activation by increasing ANT2 expression and mitochondrial permeability transition. Consequently, myeloid lineage-specific or KC-specific HIF-2alpha depletion or the inhibition of mTOR-dependent TFEB inhibition using antisense oligonucleotide treatment protected against the development of NASH in mice. Moreover, treatment with an HIF-2alpha-specific inhibitor reduced inflammatory and fibrogenic gene expression in human liver spheroids cultured under a NASH-like condition. Together, our results suggest that macrophage subtype-specific effects of HIF-2alpha collectively contribute to the proinflammatory activation of liver macrophages, leading to the development of NASH.
PXD050465	39260336	Phosphoproteomic analysis reveals CDK5-Mediated phosphorylation of MTDH inhibits protein synthesis in microglia. 	Phosphoproteomics reveal that phosphorylation of MTDH by CDK5 inhibits protein synthesis in microglia	CDK5, MTDH, Microglia, Phosphoproteomics, Protein synthesis	CDK5 plays a crucial role in maintaining normal central nervous system (CNS) development and synaptic function, while microglia are the primary immune cells present in the CNS and play vital physiological roles in CNS development, immune surveillance, and regulation of synaptic plasticity. Despite this, our understanding of both the substrate proteins and functional mechanisms of CDK5 in microglia remains limited. To address this, we utilized CRISPR-Cas9 knockout of Cdk5 in BV2 cells and conducted quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis to systematically screen potential CDK5 substrates in microglia. Our findings identified 335 phosphorylation sites on 234 proteins as potential CDK5 substrates in microglia based on the reported sequence motif. Through in vitro kinase assay and intracellular inhibition and knockout of CDK5 experiments, we confirmed that ER proteins MTDH (protein LYRIC) and Calnexin are novel substrate proteins of CDK5. Moreover, we demonstrated for the first time a critical mechanism for regulating protein synthesis in microglia, that the phosphorylation of S565 site on MTDH, a key protein mediating cell growth, by CDK5 inhibits protein synthesis. Our data provide valuable insights for the discovery of new substrate proteins of CDK5 and the in-depth investigation of the function and mechanism of CDK5 in microglia.
PXD054303	39260367	RAPIDASH: Tag-free enrichment of ribosome-associated proteins reveals composition dynamics in embryonic tissue, cancer cells, and macrophages. 	RAPIDASH: Tag-free enrichment of ribosome-associated proteins reveals compositional dynamics in embryonic tissues, cancer cells, and macrophages - label-free MS RAPIDASH of E12.5 mouse forebrain	acquity UPLC M-class system, embryo, forebrain, orbitrap elite, ribosome, ribosome-associated proteins	Ribosomes are emerging as direct regulators of gene expression, with ribosome-associated proteins (RAPs) allowing ribosomes to modulate translation. Nevertheless, a lack of technologies to enrich RAPs across sample types has prevented systematic analysis of RAP identities, dynamics, and functions. We have developed a label-free methodology called RAPIDASH to enrich ribosomes and RAPs from any sample. We applied RAPIDASH to mouse embryonic tissues and identified hundreds of potential RAPs, including Dhx30 and Llph, two forebrain RAPs important for neurodevelopment. We identified a critical role of LLPH in neural development linked to the translation of genes with long coding sequences. In addition, we showed that RAPIDASH can identify ribosome changes in cancer cells. Finally, we characterized ribosome composition remodeling during immune cell activation and observed extensive changes post-stimulation. RAPIDASH has therefore enabled the discovery of RAPs in multiple cell types, tissues, and stimuli and is adaptable to characterize ribosome remodeling in several contexts.
PXD055345	39260416	Heteromeric amyloid filaments of ANXA11 and TDP-43 in FTLD-TDP Type C. 	Heteromeric amyloid filaments of ANXA11 and TDP-43 in FTLD-TDP Type C	Neurodegenerative disease, TDP-43 and TMEM106B, frontotemporal dementia	Neurodegenerative diseases are characterised by the abnormal filamentous assembly of specific proteins in the central nervous system(1). Human genetic studies established a causal role for protein assembly in neurodegeneration(2). However, the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown, which is limiting progress in developing clinical tools for these diseases. Recent advances in electron cryo-microscopy (cryo-EM) have enabled the structures of the protein filaments to be determined from patient brains(1). All diseases studied to date have been characterised by the self-assembly of proteins in homomeric amyloid filaments, including that of TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 inclusions (FTLD-TDP) Types A and B(3,4). Here, we used cryo-EM to determine filament structures from the brains of individuals with FTLD-TDP Type C, one of the most common forms of sporadic FTLD-TDP. Unexpectedly, the structures revealed that a second protein, annexin A11 (ANXA11), co-assembles with TDP-43 in heteromeric amyloid filaments. The ordered filament fold is formed by TDP-43 residues G282/284-N345 and ANXA11 residues L39-Y74 from their respective low-complexity domains (LCDs). Regions of TDP-43 and ANXA11 previously implicated in protein-protein interactions form an extensive hydrophobic interface at the centre of the filament fold. Immunoblots of the filaments revealed that the majority of ANXA11 exists as a ~22 kDa N-terminal fragment (NTF) lacking the annexin core domain. Immunohistochemistry of brain sections showed the co-localisation of ANXA11 and TDP-43 in inclusions, redefining the histopathology of FTLD-TDP Type C. This work establishes a central role for ANXA11 in FTLD-TDP Type C. The unprecedented formation of heteromeric amyloid filaments in human brain revises our understanding of amyloid assembly and may be of significance for the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD052765	39260557	Beyond glucose: The crucial role of redox signaling in beta-cell metabolic adaptation. 	Redox-proteomic analysis of pancreatic beta-cells upon glucose stimulation	iodoTMT, redox proteomics	OBJECTIVE: Redox signaling mediated by reversible oxidative cysteine thiol modifications is crucial for driving cellular adaptation to dynamic environmental changes, maintaining homeostasis, and ensuring proper function. This is particularly critical in pancreatic beta-cells, which are highly metabolically active and play a specialized role in whole organism glucose homeostasis. Glucose stimulation in beta-cells triggers signals leading to insulin secretion, including changes in ATP/ADP ratio and intracellular calcium levels. Additionally, lipid metabolism and reactive oxygen species (ROS) signaling are essential for beta-cell function and health. METHODS: We employed IodoTMT isobaric labeling combined with tandem mass spectrometry to elucidate redox signaling pathways in pancreatic beta-cells. RESULTS: Glucose stimulation significantly increases ROS levels in beta-cells, leading to targeted reversible oxidation of proteins involved in key metabolic pathways such as glycolysis, the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, pyruvate metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), and insulin secretion. Furthermore, the glucose-induced increase in reversible cysteine oxidation correlates with the presence of other post-translational modifications, including acetylation and phosphorylation. CONCLUSIONS: Proper functioning of pancreatic beta-cell metabolism relies on fine-tuned regulation, achieved through a sophisticated system of diverse post-translational modifications that modulate protein functions. Our findings demonstrate that glucose induces the production of ROS in pancreatic beta-cells, leading to targeted reversible oxidative modifications of proteins. Furthermore, protein activity is modulated by acetylation and phosphorylation, highlighting the complexity of the regulatory mechanisms in beta-cell function.
PXD049683	39261837	Bivalent chromatin accommodates survivin and BRG1/SWI complex to activate DNA damage response in CD4(+) cells. 	Mass spectrometry (LC-MS) of survivin binding proteins immunoprecipitated from human THP1 cells	Immunoprecipitation, LC-MS, THP1, survivin	BACKGROUND: Bivalent regions of chromatin (BvCR) are characterized by trimethylated lysine 4 (H3K4me3) and lysine 27 on histone H3 (H3K27me3) deposition which aid gene expression control during cell differentiation. The role of BvCR in post-transcriptional DNA damage response remains unidentified. Oncoprotein survivin binds chromatin and mediates IFNgamma effects in CD4(+) cells. In this study, we explored the role of BvCR in DNA damage response of autoimmune CD4(+) cells in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). METHODS: We performed deep sequencing of the chromatin bound to survivin, H3K4me3, H3K27me3, and H3K27ac, in human CD4(+) cells and identified BvCR, which possessed all three histone H3 modifications. Protein partners of survivin on chromatin were predicted by integration of motif enrichment analysis, computational machine-learning, and structural modeling, and validated experimentally by mass spectrometry and peptide binding array. Survivin-dependent change in BvCR and transcription of genes controlled by the BvCR was studied in CD4(+) cells treated with survivin inhibitor, which revealed survivin-dependent biological processes. Finally, the survivin-dependent processes were mapped to the transcriptome of CD4(+) cells in blood and in synovial tissue of RA patients and the effect of modern immunomodulating drugs on these processes was explored. RESULTS: We identified that BvCR dominated by H3K4me3 (H3K4me3-BvCR) accommodated survivin within cis-regulatory elements of the genes controlling DNA damage. Inhibition of survivin or JAK-STAT signaling enhanced H3K4me3-BvCR dominance, which improved DNA damage recognition and arrested cell cycle progression in cultured CD4(+) cells. Specifically, BvCR accommodating survivin aided sequence-specific anchoring of the BRG1/SWI chromatin-remodeling complex coordinating DNA damage response. Mapping survivin interactome to BRG1/SWI complex demonstrated interaction of survivin with the subunits anchoring the complex to chromatin. Co-expression of BRG1, survivin and IFNgamma in CD4(+) cells rendered complete deregulation of DNA damage response in RA. Such cells possessed strong ability of homing to RA joints. Immunomodulating drugs inhibited the anchoring subunits of BRG1/SWI complex, which affected arthritogenic profile of CD4(+) cells. CONCLUSIONS: BvCR execute DNA damage control to maintain genome fidelity in IFN-activated CD4(+) cells. Survivin anchors the BRG1/SWI complex to BvCR to repress DNA damage response. These results offer a platform for therapeutic interventions targeting survivin and BRG1/SWI complex in autoimmunity.
PXD050751	39262370	Analysis of Complexome Profiles with the Gaussian Interaction Profiler (GIP) Reveals Novel Protein Complexes in Plasmodium falciparum. 	Complexome profiling of subcellular fractions of Plasmodium falciparum gametocytes	Complexome profiling, Plasmodium falciparum	Complexome profiling is an experimental approach to identify interactions by integrating native separation of protein complexes and quantitative mass spectrometry. In a typical complexome profile, thousands of proteins are detected across typically <=100 fractions. This relatively low resolution leads to similar abundance profiles between proteins that are not necessarily interaction partners. To address this challenge, we introduce the Gaussian Interaction Profiler (GIP), a Gaussian mixture modeling-based clustering workflow that assigns protein clusters by modeling the migration profile of each cluster. Uniquely, the GIP offers a way to prioritize actual interactors over spuriously comigrating proteins. Using previously analyzed human fibroblast complexome profiles, we show good performance of the GIP compared to other state-of-the-art tools. We further demonstrate GIP utility by applying it to complexome profiles from the transmissible lifecycle stage of malaria parasites. We unveil promising novel associations for future experimental verification, including an interaction between the vaccine target Pfs47 and the hypothetical protein PF3D7_0417000. Taken together, the GIP provides methodological advances that facilitate more accurate and automated detection of protein complexes, setting the stage for more varied and nuanced analyses in the field of complexome profiling. The complexome profiling data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the dataset identifier PXD050751.
PXD050754	39262965	Enhancing outcome prediction of concurrent chemoradiation treatment in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer through plasma extracellular vesicle proteomics. 	Enhancing Concurrent Chemoradiation Outcome Prediction for Locally Advanced Cervical Cancer Patients Through Plasma Extracellular Vesicle Proteomics Analysis	Cervical Cancer, Extracellular Vesicles, Treatment outcome, Ultracentrifugation	Most patients with locally advanced cervical cancer (LACC) are primarily treated using concurrent chemoradiation (CCRT); however, LACC lacks reliable predictive biomarkers. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) could define the dynamic biological response to CCRT. However, the relationship between EVs and the therapeutic response to LACC is unestablished. Thus, we aimed to determine the relationship of plasma EVs pre- and post-CCRT in 62 patients with LACC. For proteomic analyses, EVs were isolated using ultracentrifugation (UC) with size exclusion chromatography or UC alone. We found that plasma particle concentration was significantly increased post-treatment in non-responders. After CCRT, there was a decrease in proteins related to serine protease and fibrinogen, which contribute to tumor microenvironment alteration. This reduction also extended to proteins involved in innate immune and viral immune responses, correlating with reduced tumor burden. Sparse partial least squares discriminant analysis revealed 8, 13, and 19 proteins at diagnosis, one month, and three months, respectively, influencing the CCRT response. Among these, FIBG, TFR1, HBA, and FINC are prognostic markers according to The Cancer Genome Atlas tissue gene expression database. Our discriminant model demonstrated excellent specificity and negative predictive value, underscoring the model's reliability in determining responsiveness to CCRT and highlighting the potential clinical applicability of EVs in improving outcomes in LACC.
PXD023737	39263374	Comparative proteomics analysis of the mouse mini-gut organoid: insights into markers of gluten challenge from celiac disease intestinal biopsies. 	Minigut Cellular Proteome and Secretome	Celiac disease	Introduction: Organoid models enable three-dimensional representation of cellular systems, providing flexible and accessible research tools, and can highlight key biomolecules. Such models of the intestinal epithelium can provide significant knowledge for the study of celiac disease and provide an additional context for the nature of markers observed from patient biopsy data. Methods: Using LC-MS/MS, the proteomes of the crypt and enterocyte-like states of a mouse mini-gut organoid model were measured. The data were further compared with published biopsy data by comparing the changes induced by gluten challenge after a gluten-free diet. Results and discussion: These analyses identified 4,850 protein groups and revealed how 400 putative biomarkers of dietary challenge were differentially expressed in the organoid model. In addition to the extensive changes within the differentiated cells, the data reiterated the disruption of the crypt-villus axis after gluten challenge. The mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD025690.
PXD051002	39263706	Evaluation of Serum Proteome Sample Preparation Methods to Support Clinical Proteomics Applications. 	Evaluation of the technical reproducibility of serum proteome sample preparation methods to support clinical proteomics applications	RapiGest SF, SMART Digest Trypsin, biomarker, iST-BCT, serum	Serum contains several proteins that are associated with disease-related processes. Mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics approaches greatly facilitate serum protein biomarker development. However, the serum proteome complexity presents a technical challenge for the accurate, sensitive, and reproducible quantification of proteins by MS. Thus, efficient sample preparation methods are of critical importance for serum proteome analyses. In this study, we evaluated the technical performance of two serum proteome sample preparation methods using sera from patients with high-grade serous ovarian cancer and patients with benign nongynecological conditions with a goal of providing insight into their compatibility with clinical proteomics workflows. One method entailed the use of immobilized trypsin (SMART Digest Trypsin) with RapiGest SF, an acid-labile surfactant designed to enhance the in-solution enzymatic digestion of proteins. The other method incorporated a commercially available sample preparation kit, iST-BCT, which contains standardized reagents. Significantly higher protein sequence coverage, albeit with lower digestion efficiency, was obtained with the immobilized trypsin + RapiGest SF workflow, whereas the iST-BCT workflow was quicker and had marginally better reproducibility. Protein relative abundance analysis revealed that the serum proteomes clustered primarily by the sample processing workflow and secondarily by disease state. We conducted a time course study to determine whether differences in the relative abundance of diagnostic high-grade serous ovarian cancer serum protein biomarker candidates were biased according to the duration of enzymatic digestion. Our results highlight the importance of optimizing enzymatic digestion kinetics according to the peptide targets of interest while considering the sensitivity of the downstream analytical method utilized in clinical proteomics workflows designed to measure biomarkers.
PXD053265	39264361	Midnolin, a Genetic Risk Factor for Parkinson's Disease, Promotes Neurite Outgrowth Accompanied by Early Growth Response 1 Activation in PC12 Cells. 	Proteomics analysis of proteins co-immunoprecipitated with MIDN-Flag in PC-12 cells 	PC-12, nerve growth factor	Parkinson's disease (PD) is an age-related progressive neurodegenerative disease. Previously, we identified midnolin (MIDN) as a genetic risk factor for PD. Although MIDN copy number loss increases the risk of PD, the molecular function of MIDN remains unclear. To investigate the role of MIDN in PD, we established monoclonal Midn knockout (KO) PC12 cell models. Midn KO inhibited neurite outgrowth and neurofilament light chain (Nefl) gene expression. Although MIDN is mainly localized in the nucleus, it does not encode DNA-binding domains. We therefore hypothesized that MIDN might bind to certain transcription factors and regulate gene expression. Of the candidate transcription factors, we focused on early growth response 1 (EGR1) because it is required for neurite outgrowth and its target genes are downregulated by Midn KO. An interaction between MIDN and EGR1 was confirmed by immunoprecipitation. Surprisingly, although EGR1 protein levels were significantly increased in Midn KO cells, the binding of EGR1 to the Nefl promoter and resulting transcriptional activity were downregulated as measured by luciferase assay and chromatin immunoprecipitation quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Overall, we identified the MIDN-dependent regulation of EGR1 function. This mechanism may be an underlying reason for the neurite outgrowth defects of Midn KO PC12 cells.
PXD052626	39264416	Phenotypic profiling of human induced regulatory T cells at early differentiation: insights into distinct immunosuppressive potential. 	FACS-sorted CD103+ and CD103- Treg cell proteomics	CD103, DIA, FAIMS, FOXP3, T cell differentiation, Treg	Regulatory T cells (Tregs) play a key role in suppressing systemic effector immune responses, thereby preventing autoimmune diseases but also potentially contributing to tumor progression. Thus, there is great interest in clinically manipulating Tregs, but the precise mechanisms governing in vitro-induced Treg (iTreg) differentiation are not yet fully understood. Here, we used multiparametric mass cytometry to phenotypically profile human iTregs during the early stages of in vitro differentiation at single-cell level. A panel of 25 metal-conjugated antibodies specific to markers associated with human Tregs was used to characterize these immunomodulatory cells. We found that iTregs highly express the transcription factor FOXP3, as well as characteristic Treg-associated surface markers (e.g. CD25, PD1, CD137, CCR4, CCR7, CXCR3, and CD103). Expression of co-inhibitory factors (e.g. TIM3, LAG3, and TIGIT) increased slightly at late stages of iTreg differentiation. Further, CD103 was upregulated on a subpopulation of iTregs with greater suppressive capacity than their CD103(-) counterparts. Using mass-spectrometry-based proteomics, we showed that sorted CD103(+) iTregs express factors associated with immunosuppression. Overall, our study highlights that during early stages of differentiation, iTregs resemble memory-like Treg features with immunosuppressive activity, and provides opportunities for further investigation into the molecular mechanisms underlying Treg function.
PXD056590	39264847	Lactate supports Treg function and immune balance via MGAT1 effects on N-glycosylation in the mitochondria. 	Lactate remodulates the OXPHOS of Tregs by inducing N-glycosylation in mitochondria via transcription and translocation of MGAT1	Treg proteomic data	Current research reports that lactate affects Treg metabolism, although the precise mechanism has only been partially elucidated. In this study, we presented evidence demonstrating that elevated lactate levels enhanced cell proliferation, suppressive capabilities, and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) in human Tregs. The expression levels of Monocarboxylate Transporters 1/2/4 (MCT1/2/4) regulate intracellular lactate concentration, thereby influencing the varying responses observed in naive Tregs and memory Tregs. Through mitochondrial isolation, sequencing, and analysis of human Tregs, we determined that Alpha-1,3-Mannosyl-Glycoprotein 2-Beta-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase (MGAT1) served as the pivotal driver initiating downstream N-glycosylation events involving progranulin (GRN) and hypoxia-upregulated 1 (HYOU1), consequently enhancing Treg OXPHOS. The mechanism by which MGAT1 was upregulated in mitochondria depended on elevated intracellular lactate that promoted the activation of XBP1s, which, in turn, supported MGAT1 transcription as well as the interaction of lactate with the translocase of the mitochondrial outer membrane 70 (TOM70) import receptor, facilitating MGAT1 translocation into mitochondria. Pre-treatment of Tregs with lactate reduced mortality in a xenogeneic graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) model. Together, these findings underscored the active regulatory role of lactate in human Treg metabolism through the upregulation of MGAT1 transcription and its facilitated translocation into the mitochondria.
PXD051353	39265795	Bailixiang tea, an herbal medicine formula, co-suppresses TLR2/MAPK8 and TLR2/NF-kappaB signaling pathways to protect against LPS-triggered cytokine storm in mice. 	Bailixiang tea, an herbal medicine formula, co-suppresses TLR2/MAPK8 and TLR2/NF-B signaling pathways to protect against LPS-triggered cytokine storm in mice	Bailixiang tea, TLR2/MAPK8/NF-B signaling pathway, blood proteomics, cytokine storm, lipopolysaccharide, transcriptomics	ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) has shown notable effectiveness and safety in managing illnesses linked to cytokine storm(CS). Bailixiang tea (BLX), an herbal medicine formula, which is a compound Chinese medicine composed of Thymus mongolicus (Ronniger) Ronniger (Bailixiang), Glycyrrhiza uralensis Fisch. (Gancao), Citrus reticulata Blanco (Chenpi), Cyperus rotundus L. (Xiangfu), and Perilla frutescens (L.) Britton (Zisu). The objective of this study was to explore the capacity of BLX in improving LPS-induced CS. AIM OF THE STUDY: This study aimed to validate the mitigating effect of BLX on CS and to further investigate its mechanism. MATERIALS AND METHODS: mice were orally administered BLX for 24 h after being treated with 5 mg/kg lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Histopathological observations further confirmed the significant protective effect of BLX treatment against LPS-induced lung and spleen damage. Additionally, we aimed to explore the molecular mechanism underlying its effects through blood proteomics and transcriptomics analyses. Real-Time Quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) was utilized to detect the levels of Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) , Matrix metalloproteinase 8 (MMP8) , Matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) , Integrin beta 2 (ITGB2) , Mitogen-activated protein kinase 8 (MAPK8) , Nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells inhibitor, epsilon (NFKBIE) , Nuclear factor of kappa light polypeptide gene enhancer in B-cells 2 (NFKB2) , and Glyceraldehyde-3-Phosphate Dehydrogenase (GAPDH)expressions in the lung tissue. RESULTS: The results demonstrated that BLX effectively down-regulated the overproduction of interleukin 6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in both the serum and lung and spleen tissues. Furthermore, BLX effectively mitigated the overproduction of monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) in the serum. Through comprehensive multi-omics analysis, it was revealed that BLX specifically targeted and regulated TLR2/MAPK8 and TLR2/NF-kappaB signaling pathways, which play a crucial role in the production of key cytokines. CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study demonstrate that Bailixiang tea possesses the ability to alleviate lung tissue damage and inhibit the development of LPS-induced cytokine storm in mice. These effects are attributed to the tea's ability to suppress the TLR2/MAPK8 and TLR2/NF-kappaB pathways. Consequently, this research highlights the potential application of Bailixiang tea as a treatment option for cytokine storm.
PXD055111	39265992	Proteome and Metabolome Profiling of Anticoagulant Disorders Induced by Familial Protein S Deficiency. 	Proteome of familial protein S deficiency	coagulation, plasma, protein S	Protein S deficiency (PSD) is an autosomal dominant disorder characterized by congenital thrombophilia. Studies on PSD are limited yet, resulting in a lack of clarity about molecular changes during abnormal coagulation. Proteomics and metabolomics analyses were conducted on the plasma of PSD patients based on liquid and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC- and GC-MS). Differential proteins and metabolites of PSD were then filtered by univariate statistical analysis and subjected to network analysis using the ingenuity pathway analysis (IPA) platform. The proteome and metabolome of PSD were obviously disturbed, and the biological pathway of coagulation and complement cascades was the most affected. During PSD, overall levels of anticoagulant protein decreased and negative regulation of thrombin production was reduced, causing the formation of fibrin clots and platelet aggregation. Furthermore, 9 differential proteins correlated significantly with protein S, comprising A2M, AGT, APOE, FGG, GPLD1, IGHV1-69, CFHR5, CPN2, and CA1. The biological networks suggested that the pathways of acute phase response, FXR/RXR activation, serotonin receptor signaling, and p70S6K signaling were associated with PSD, indicating an interaction disorder of inflammatory immune and lipid metabolism. The findings may contribute to knowledge of available functional molecules and biological pathways of familial PSD and help with treatment improvement. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD055111 and MetaboLights with reference number MTBLS2653.
PXD051862	39266194	A simple and efficient approach for preparing cationic coating with tunable electroosmotic flow for capillary zone electrophoresis-mass spectrometry-based top-down proteomics. 	A simple and efficient approach for preparing cationic coating with tunable electroosmotic flow for capillary zone electrophoresis-mass spectrometry-based top-down proteomics	Capillary zone electrophoresis-mass spectrometry, Covalent cationic coating, Proteoform, Reproducibility, Top-down proteomics, large proteoforms	BACKGROUND: Capillary zone electrophoresis-tandem mass spectrometry (CZE-MS/MS) has become a valuable analytical technique in top-down proteomics (TDP). CZE-MS/MS-based TDP typically employs separation capillaries with neutral coatings (i.e., linear polyacrylamide, LPA). However, issues related to separation resolution and reproducibility remain with the LPA-coated capillaries due to the unavoidable non-specific protein adsorption onto the capillary wall. Cationic coatings can be critical alternatives to LPA coating for CZE-MS/MS-based TDP due to the electrostatic repulsion between the positively charged capillary inner wall and proteoform molecules in the acidic separation buffer. Unfortunately, there are only very few studies using cationic coating-based CZE-MS/MS for TDP studies. RESULTS: In this work, we aimed to develop a simple and efficient approach for preparing separation capillaries with a cationic coating, i.e., poly (acrylamide-co-(3-acrylamidopropyl) trimethylammonium chloride [PAMAPTAC]) for CZE-MS/MS-based TDP. The PAMAPTAC coating-based CZE-MS produced significantly better separation resolution of proteoforms compared to the traditionally used LPA-coated approach. It achieved reproducible separation and measurement of a simple proteoform mixture and a complex proteome sample (i.e., a yeast cell lysate) regarding migration time, proteoform intensity, and the number of proteoform identifications. The PAMAPTAC coating-based CZE-MS enabled the detection of large proteoforms (>=30 kDa) from the yeast cell lysate reproducibly without any size-based prefractionation. Interestingly, the mobility of proteoforms using the PAMAPTAC coating can be predicted accurately using a simple semi-empirical model. SIGNIFICANCE: The results render the PAMAPTAC coating as a valuable alternative to the LPA coating to advance CZE-MS-based TDP towards high-resolution separation and highly reproducible measurement of proteoforms in complex samples.
PXD052540	39266525	Phosphorylation of tau at a single residue inhibits binding to the E3 ubiquitin ligase, CHIP. 	Analysis of tauC3 PTMs following in vitro ubiquitination	Phosphorylation, Tau, Ubiquitination	Microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT/tau) accumulates in a family of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). In disease, tau is aberrantly modified by post-translational modifications (PTMs), including hyper-phosphorylation. However, it is often unclear which of these PTMs contribute to tau's accumulation or what mechanisms might be involved. To explore these questions, we focus on a cleaved proteoform of tau (tauC3), which selectively accumulates in AD and was recently shown to be degraded by its direct binding to the E3 ubiquitin ligase, CHIP. Here, we find that phosphorylation of tauC3 at a single residue, pS416, is sufficient to weaken its interaction with CHIP. A co-crystal structure of CHIP bound to the C-terminus of tauC3 reveals the mechanism of this clash, allowing design of a mutation (CHIP(D134A)) that partially restores binding and turnover of pS416 tauC3. We confirm that, in our models, pS416 is produced by the known AD-associated kinase, MARK2/Par-1b, providing a potential link to disease. In further support of this idea, an antibody against pS416 co-localizes with tauC3 in degenerative neurons within the hippocampus of AD patients. Together, these studies suggest a molecular mechanism for how phosphorylation at a discrete site contributes to accumulation of a tau proteoform.
PXD052428	39266663	Comprehensive posttranslational modifications in the testis-specific histone variant H3t protein validated in tagged knock-in mice. 	Posttranslational modification analysis of Histone H3t	histone PTM	During the development of multicellular organisms and cell differentiation, the chromatin structure in the cell nucleus undergoes extensive changes, and the nucleosome structure is formed by a combination of various histone variants. Histone variants with diverse posttranslational modifications are known to play crucial roles in different regulatory functions. We have previously reported that H3t, a testis-specific histone variant, is essential for spermatogenesis. To elucidate the function of this chromatin molecule in vivo, we generated knock-in mice with a FLAG tag attached to the carboxyl terminus of H3t. In the present study, we evaluated the utility of the generated knock-in mice and comprehensively analyzed posttranslational modifications of canonical H3 and H3t using mass spectrometry. Herein, we found that H3t-FLAG was incorporated into spermatogonia and meiotic cells in the testes, as evidenced by immunostaining of testicular tissue. According to the mass spectrometry analysis, the overall pattern of H3t-FLAG posttranslational modification was comparable to that of the control H3, while the relative abundances of certain specific modifications differed between H3t-FLAG and the control bulk H3. The generated knock-in mice could be valuable for analyzing the function of histone variants in vivo.
PXD045819	39268960	Aspergillus fumigatus-derived gliotoxin impacts innate immune cell activation through modulating lipid mediator production in macrophages. 	Aspergillus fumigatus-derived gliotoxin impairs innate immune cell activation through modulating lipid mediator production in macrophages	Aspergillus fumigatus, Gliotoxin, lipid mediators, macrophages	Gliotoxin (GT), a secondary metabolite and virulence factor of the fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus, suppresses innate immunity and supports the suppression of host immune responses. Recently, we revealed that GT blocks the formation of the chemotactic lipid mediator leukotriene (LT)B4 in activated human neutrophils and monocytes, and in rodents in vivo, by directly inhibiting LTA4 hydrolase. Here, we elucidated the impact of GT on LTB4 biosynthesis and the entire lipid mediator networks in human M1- and M2-like monocyte-derived macrophages (MDMs) and in human tissue-resident alveolar macrophages. In activated M1-MDMs with high capacities to generate LTs, the formation of LTB4 was effectively suppressed by GT, connected to attenuated macrophage phagocytic activity as well as human neutrophil movement and migration. In resting macrophages, especially in M1-MDMs, GT elicited strong formation of prostaglandins, while bacterial exotoxins from Staphylococcus aureus evoked a broad spectrum of lipid mediator biosynthesis in both MDM phenotypes. We conclude that GT impairs functions of activated innate immune cells through selective suppression of LTB4 biosynthesis, while GT may also prime the immune system by provoking prostaglandin formation in macrophages.
PXD056380	39268985	MCM Proteins are Upregulated in Placentas of Women with Reduced Insulin Sensitivity. 	MCM proteins are up-regulated in placentas of women with reduced insulin sensitivity	DNA-damage repair, Early pregnancy, Insulin, Insulin sensitivity, MCM-complex, Obesity, Oxygen, Placenta, Placenta-growth, Trophoblast	In the first trimester of pregnancy the human placenta grows rapidly, making it sensitive to changes in the intrauterine environment. To test whether exposure to an environment in utero often associated with obesity modifies placental proteome and function, we performed untargeted proteomics (LC-MS/MS) in placentas from 19 women (gestational age 35-48 days). Maternal clinical traits (body mass index, leptin, glucose, C-peptide and insulin sensitivity) and gestational age were recorded. DNA replication and cell cycle pathways were enriched in the proteome of placentas of women with low maternal insulin sensitivity. Driving these pathways were the minichromosome maintenance (MCM) proteins MCM2-7 (MCM-complex). These proteins are part of the pre-replicative complex and participate in DNA damage repair. Indeed, MCM6 and gammaH2AX (DNA-damage marker) protein levels correlated in first trimester placental tissue (r=0.514, p<0.01). MCM6 and gammaH2AX co-localized to nuclei of villous cytotrophoblast cells, the proliferative cell type of the placenta, suggesting increased DNA damage in this cell type. To mimic key features of the intrauterine obesogenic environment, a first trimester trophoblast cell line, i.e., ACH-3P, was exposed to high insulin (10nM) or low oxygen tension (2.5% O2). There was a significant correlation between MCM6 and gammaH2AX protein levels, but these were independent of insulin or oxygen exposure. These findings show that chronic exposure in utero to reduced maternal insulin sensitivity during early pregnancy induces changes in the early first trimester placental proteome. Pathways related to DNA replication, cell cycle and DNA damage repair appear especially sensitive to such an in utero environment.
PXD054851	39269200	TMT-Based Quantitative Proteomics Revealed the Antibacterial Mechanism of Cinnamaldehyde against MRSA. 	Quantitative analysis of the  antibacterial effect of cinnamaldehyde on Staphylococcus aureus based on TMT protein	Antibacterial Mechanism, Cinnamaldehyde, MRSA, TMT-based proteomic analysis	Natural plant extracts have demonstrated significant potential in alternative antibiotic therapies. Cinnamaldehyde (CA) has garnered considerable attention as a natural antibacterial agent. In this study, Tandem mass tag (TMT) quantitative proteomics combined with Western blot and RT-qPCR methods were employed to explore the antibacterial mechanism of CA against Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) at the protein level. The results showed that a total of 254 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in the control group and CA treatment group, of which 161 were significantly upregulated and 93 were significantly downregulated. DEPs related to nucleotide synthesis, homeostasis of the internal environment, and protein biosynthesis were significantly upregulated, while DEPs involved in the cell wall, cell membrane, and virulence factors were significantly downregulated. The results of GO and KEGG enrichment analyses demonstrated that CA could exert its antibacterial effects by influencing pyruvate metabolism, the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, teichoic acid biosynthesis, and the Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) infection pathway in MRSA. CA significantly inhibited the expression of recombinant protein MgrA (p < 0.05), significantly reduced the mRNA transcription levels of mgrA, hla, and sdrD genes (p < 0.05), and thermostability migration assays demonstrated that CA can directly interact with MgrA protein, thereby inhibiting its activity. These findings suggest that CA exerts its antibacterial mechanism by regulating the expression of related proteins, providing a theoretical basis for further development of clinical applications of antimicrobial agents derived from natural plant essential oils in the treatment of dairy cow mastitis.
PXD054343	39271013	Combining Data Independent Acquisition with Spike-in SILAC (DIA-SiS) Improves Proteome Coverage and Quantification. 	DIA Spike-in SILAC Revisions; additional submission including single-cell like amounts	SILAC DIA Benchmark Proteomics	Data Independent Acquisition (DIA) is increasingly preferred over Data Dependent Acquisition (DDA) due to its higher throughput and fewer missing values. Whereas DDA often utilizes stable isotope labeling to improve quantification, DIA mostly relies on label-free approaches. Efforts to integrate DIA with isotope labeling include chemical methods like mTRAQ and dimethyl labeling, which, while effective, complicate sample preparation. Stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) achieves high labeling efficiency through the metabolic incorporation of heavy labels into proteins in vivo. However, the need for metabolic incorporation limits the direct use in clinical scenarios and certain high-throughput experiments. Spike-in SILAC methods utilize an externally generated heavy sample as an internal reference, enabling SILAC-based quantification even for samples that cannot be directly labeled. Here, we combine DIA with spike-in SILAC (DIA-SiS), leveraging the robust quantification of SILAC without the complexities associated with chemical labeling. We developed DIA-SiS and rigorously assessed its performance with mixed-species benchmark samples on bulk and single cell-like amount level. We demonstrate that DIA-SiS substantially improves proteome coverage and quantification compared to label-free approaches and reduces incorrectly quantified proteins. Additionally, DIA-SiS proves effective in analyzing proteins in low-input formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue sections. DIA-SiS combines the precision of stable isotope-based quantification with the simplicity of label-free sample preparation, facilitating simple, accurate and comprehensive proteome profiling.
PXD048847	39271940	RUNX1 interacts with lncRNA SMANTIS to regulate monocytic cell functions. 	Interacting proteins on lncRNA SMANTIS in THP-1 cells	Monocytes, complex remodeling, lncRNA, protein-RNA complexes	Monocytes, the circulating macrophage precursors, contribute to diseases like atherosclerosis and asthma. Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have been shown to modulate the phenotype and inflammatory capacity of monocytes. We previously discovered the lncRNA SMANTIS, which contributes to cellular phenotype expression by controlling BRG1 in mesenchymal cells. Here, we report that SMANTIS is particularly highly expressed in monocytes and lost during differentiation into macrophages. Moreover, different types of myeloid leukemia presented specific SMANTIS expression patterns. Interaction studies revealed that SMANTIS binds RUNX1, a transcription factor frequently mutated in AML, primarily through its Alu-element on the RUNT domain. RNA-seq after CRISPR/Cas9-mediated deletion of SMANTIS or RUNX1 revealed an association with cell adhesion and both limited the monocyte adhesion to endothelial cells. Mechanistically, SMANTIS KO reduced RUNX1 genomic binding and altered the interaction of RUNX1 with EP300 and CBFB. Collectively, SMANTIS interacts with RUNX1 and attenuates monocyte adhesion, which might limit monocyte vascular egress.
PXD032354	39271970	Research biopsies in kidney transplantation: an evaluation of surgical techniques and optimal tissue mass allowing molecular and histological analyses. 	EVALUATION OF RESEARCH BIOPSIES IN KIDNEY TRANSPLANTATION	Core needle biopsy, Kidney transplantation, Shotgun Proteomics, punch biopsy	BACKGROUND: Research biopsies have great potential to advance scientific knowledge by helping to establish predictors of favourable or unfavourable outcomes in kidney transplantation. We evaluated punch and core biopsies of different sizes to determine the optimal size for clinical use. METHODS: A total of 54 punch biopsies and 18 core needle biopsies were retrieved by three transplant surgeons. Each surgeon obtained three separate 2 mm, 3 mm and 4 mm punch biopsy samples and three 23 mm (length) core needle biopsies from two pig kidneys. RESULTS: 4 mm punch biopsies yielded the greatest amount of protein (2.11 +/- 0.41 mg) with good reproducibility between surgeons and biopsy types (Coefficient of Variation ~ 22.13%). All surgeons found 2 mm biopsies technically challenging to obtain and sample processing was difficult due to the sample size. Shotgun proteomics identified 3853 gene products with no significant difference in the quantitative proteome of 2 mm and 3 mm punch biopsies. However, the expression of 158 Kidney enriched genes, was higher in bigger and deeper 4 mm punch and core needle biopsies compared to 2 mm biopsy. Only 80% of 2 mm biopsies demonstrated the presence of glomeruli, whereas glomeruli were present in 100% of all other biopsy sizes. CONCLUSIONS: The 2 mm punch biopsy has been shown to be challenging to use and frequently provides inadequate tissue for histology and proteomics while 3 mm research biopsies were the smallest size that were technically obtainable with adequate tissue for molecular studies.
PXD055465	39272156	Clusterin-carrying extracellular vesicles derived from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells restore the ovarian function of premature ovarian failure mice through activating the PI3K/AKT pathway. 	Proteomic analysis of EVs from human UCMSC	EVs, hUCMSC	BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence has highlighted the therapeutic potential of human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (UC-MSCs) in chemotherapy-induced premature ovarian failure (POF). This study was designed to investigate the appropriate timing and molecular mechanism of UC-MSCs treatment for chemotherapy-induced POF. METHODS: Ovarian structure and function of mice were assessed every 3 days after injections with cyclophosphamide (CTX) and busulfan (BUS). UC-MSCs and UC-MSCs-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) were infused into mice via the tail vein, respectively. Ovarian function was analyzed by follicle counts, the serum levels of hormones and ovarian morphology. The apoptosis and proliferation of ovarian granulosa cells were analyzed in vitro and in vivo. Label-free quantitative proteomics was used to detect the differentially expressed proteins in UC-MSC-derived EVs. RESULTS: After CTX/BUS injection, we observed that the ovarian function of POF mice was significantly deteriorated on day 9 after CTX/BUS infusion. TUNEL assay indicated that the number of apoptotic cells in the ovaries of POF mice was significantly higher than that in normal mice on day 3 after CTX/BUS injection. Transplantation of UC-MSCs on day 6 after CTX/BUS injection significantly improved ovarian function, enhanced proliferation and inhibited apoptosis of ovarian granulosa cells, whereas the therapeutic effect of UC-MSCs transplantation decreased on day 9, or day 12 after CTX/BUS injection. Moreover, EVs derived from UC-MSCs exerted similar therapeutic effects on POF. UC-MSCs-derived EVs could activate the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway and reduce ovarian granulosa cell apoptosis. Quantitative proteomics analysis revealed that clusterin (CLU) was highly expressed in the EVs of UC-MSCs. The supplementation of CLU proteins prevented ovarian granulosa cells from chemotherapy-induced apoptosis. Further mechanistic analysis showed that CLU-knockdown blocked the PI3K/AKT signaling and reversed the protective effects of UC-MSCs-derived EVs. CONCLUSIONS: Administration of UC-MSCs and UC-MSCs-derived EVs on day 6 of CTX/BUS injection could effectively improve the ovarian function of POF mice. UC-MSCs-derived EVs carrying CLU promoted proliferation and inhibited apoptosis of ovarian granulosa cells through activating the PI3K/AKT pathway. This study identifies a previously unrecognized molecular mechanism of UC-MSCs-mediated protective effects on POF, which pave the way for the use of cell-free therapeutic approach for POF.
PXD049131	39273001	Pericyte-to-Endothelial Cell Communication via Tunneling Nanotubes Is Disrupted by a Diol of Docosahexaenoic Acid. 	Quantification of proteins in the endothelial cell-pericyte interface with and without treatment with 19,20-dihydroxydocosapentaenoic acid (19,20-DHDP)	19, 20-DHDP, Cell-cell junctions, Endothelial Cells, Pericytes	The pericyte coverage of microvessels is altered in metabolic diseases, but the mechanisms regulating pericyte-endothelial cell communication remain unclear. This study investigated the formation and function of pericyte tunneling nanotubes (TNTs) and their impact on endothelial cell metabolism. TNTs were analyzed in vitro in retinas and co-cultures of pericytes and endothelial cells. Using mass spectrometry, the influence of pericytes on endothelial cell metabolism was examined. TNTs were present in the murine retina, and although diabetes was associated with a decrease in pericyte coverage, TNTs were longer. In vitro, pericytes formed TNTs in the presence of PDGF, extending toward endothelial cells and facilitating mitochondrial transport from pericytes to endothelial cells. In experiments with mitochondria-depleted endothelial cells displaying defective TCA cycle metabolism, pericytes restored the mitochondrial network and metabolism. 19,20-Dihydroxydocosapentaenoic acid (19,20-DHDP), known to disrupt pericyte-endothelial cell junctions, prevented TNT formation and metabolic rescue in mitochondria-depleted endothelial cells. 19,20-DHDP also caused significant changes in the protein composition of pericyte-endothelial cell junctions and involved pathways related to phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, PDGF receptor, and RhoA signaling. Pericyte TNTs contact endothelial cells and support mitochondrial transfer, influencing metabolism. This protective mechanism is disrupted by 19,20-DHDP, a fatty acid mediator linked to diabetic retinopathy.
PXD054404	39273313	A Multi-Omics Study of Epigenetic Changes in Type II Alveolar Cells of A/J Mice Exposed to Environmental Tobacco Smoke. 	A multi-omics study of epigenetic changes in type II alveolar cells in A/J mice exposed to lipopolysaccharide and environmental tobacco smoke	lung cancer, multi-omics, tobacco smoke	Lung cancer remains a major contributor to cancer fatalities, with cigarette smoking known to be responsible for up to 80% of cases. Based on the ability of cigarette smoke to induce inflammation in the lungs and increased lung cancer incidence in smokers with inflammatory conditions such as COPD, we hypothesized that inflammation plays an important role in the carcinogenicity of cigarette smoke. To test this hypothesis, we performed multi-omic analyses of Type II pneumocytes of A/J mice exposed to cigarette smoke for various time periods. We found that cigarette smoke exposure resulted in significant changes in DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation, gene expression patterns, and protein abundance that were partially reversible and contributed to an inflammatory and potentially oncogenic phenotype.
PXD029550	39273443	Differentiation and Growth-Arrest-Related lncRNA (DAGAR): Initial Characterization in Human Smooth Muscle and Fibroblast Cells. 	The long non-coding RNA DAGAR is regulated by m6A modification and both pathways are important for smooth muscle cell plasticity	DAGAR, m6A modifcation, smooth muscle cells	Vascular smooth muscle cells (SMCs) can transition between a quiescent contractile or "differentiated" phenotype and a "proliferative-dedifferentiated" phenotype in response to environmental cues, similar to what in occurs in the wound healing process observed in fibroblasts. When dysregulated, these processes contribute to the development of various lung and cardiovascular diseases such as Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) have emerged as key modulators of SMC differentiation and phenotypic changes. In this study, we examined the expression of lncRNAs in primary human pulmonary artery SMCs (hPASMCs) during cell-to-cell contact-induced SMC differentiation. We discovered a novel lncRNA, which we named Differentiation And Growth Arrest-Related lncRNA (DAGAR) that was significantly upregulated in the quiescent phenotype with respect to proliferative SMCs and in cell-cycle-arrested MRC5 lung fibroblasts. We demonstrated that DAGAR expression is essential for SMC quiescence and its knockdown hinders SMC differentiation. The treatment of quiescent SMCs with the pro-inflammatory cytokine Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF), a known inducer of SMC dedifferentiation and proliferation, elicited DAGAR downregulation. Consistent with this, we observed diminished DAGAR expression in pulmonary arteries from COPD patients compared to non-smoker controls. Through pulldown experiments followed by mass spectrometry analysis, we identified several proteins that interact with DAGAR that are related to cell differentiation, the cell cycle, cytoskeleton organization, iron metabolism, and the N-6-Methyladenosine (m6A) machinery. In conclusion, our findings highlight DAGAR as a novel lncRNA that plays a crucial role in the regulation of cell proliferation and SMC differentiation. This paper underscores the potential significance of DAGAR in SMC and fibroblast physiology in health and disease.
PXD050612	39273496	PE/PPE Proteome and ESX-5 Substrate Spectrum in Mycobacterium marinum. 	Proteomics analysis of mycobacterium marinum culture filtrate	LC-MS, Mycobacterium marinum, culture filtrate	PE/PPE proteins secreted by the ESX-5 type VII secretion system constitute a major protein repertoire in pathogenic mycobacteria and are essential for bacterial survival, pathogenicity, and host-pathogen interaction; however, little is known about their expression and secretion. The scarcity of arginine and lysine residues in PE/PPE protein sequences and the high homology of their N-terminal domains limit protein identification using classical trypsin-based proteomic methods. This study used endoproteinase AspN and trypsin to characterize the proteome of Mycobacterium marinum. Twenty-seven PE/PPE proteins were uniquely identified in AspN digests, especially PE_PGRS proteins. These treatments allowed the identification of approximately 50% of the PE/PPE pool encoded in the genome. Moreover, EspG5 pulldown assays retrieved 44 ESX-5-associated PPE proteins, covering 85% of the PPE pool in the identified proteome. The identification of PE/PE_PGRS proteins in the EspG5 interactome suggested the presence of PE-PPE pairs. The correlation analysis between protein abundance and phylogenetic relationships found potential PE/PPE pairs, indicating the presence of multiple PE/PE_PGRS partners in one PPE. We validated that EspG5 interacted with PPE31 and PPE32 and mapped critical residues for complex formation. The modified proteomic platform increases the coverage of PE/PPE proteins and elucidates the expression and localization of these proteins.
PXD038165	39273511	Crucial Parameters for Immunopeptidome Characterization: A Systematic Evaluation. 	Immune response disfunction in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: Dissecting molecular mechanism by multipronged functional proteomics approaches.  Crucial parameters for the evaluation of Immunopeptidomic analysis.	Immunopeptidome, Immunopeptidomics	Immunopeptidomics is the area of knowledge focused on the study of peptides assembled in the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), or human leukocyte antigen (HLA) in humans, which could activate the immune response via specific and selective T cell recognition. Advances in high-sensitivity mass spectrometry have enabled the detailed identification and quantification of the immunopeptidome, significantly impacting fields like oncology, infections, and autoimmune diseases. Current immunopeptidomics approaches primarily focus on workflows to identify immunopeptides from HLA molecules, requiring the isolation of the HLA from relevant cells or tissues. Common critical steps in these workflows, such as cell lysis, HLA immunoenrichment, and peptide isolation, significantly influence outcomes. A systematic evaluation of these steps led to the creation of an 'Immunopeptidome Score' to enhance the reproducibility and robustness of these workflows. This score, derived from LC-MS/MS datasets (ProteomeXchange identifier PXD038165), in combination with available information from public databases, aids in optimizing the immunopeptidome characterization process. The 'Immunopeptidome Score' has been applied in a systematic analysis of protein extraction, HLA immunoprecipitation, and peptide recovery yields across several tumor cell lines enabling the selection of peptides with optimal features and, therefore, the identification of potential biomarker and therapeutic targets.
PXD054153	39273555	The Role of Metal Nanoparticles in the Pathogenesis of Stone Formation. 	The role of metal nanoparticles in the pathogenesis of stone formation	crystallization centers, endogenous infections, immunoglobulin, metal nanoparticles, pathogenesis, salivary gland stones	The process of stone formation in the human body remains incompletely understood, which requires clinical and laboratory studies and the formulation of a new endogenous, nanotechnological concept of the mechanism of origin and formation of crystallization centers. Previously, the mechanism of sialolithiasis was considered a congenital disease associated with the pathology of the ducts in the structure of the glands themselves. To date, such morphological changes of congenital nature can be considered from the position of the intrauterine formation of endogenous bacterial infections complicated by the migration of antigenic structures initiating the formation of crystallization centers. The present work is devoted to the study of the morphology and composition of stones obtained as a result of surgical interventions for sialolithiasis. Presumably, nanoparticles of metals and other chemical compounds can be structural components of crystallization centers or incorporated into the conditions of chronic endogenous inflammation and the composition of antigenic structures, in complexes with protein and bacterial components. X-ray microtomography, X-ray fluorescence analysis, scanning transmission electron microscopy and microanalysis, mass spectrometry, and Raman spectroscopy were used to study the pathogenesis of stone formation. Immunoglobulins (Igs) of classes A and G, as well as nanoparticles of metals Pb, Fe, Cr, and Mo, were found in the internal structure of the stones. The complex of antigenic structures was an ovoid calcified layered matrix of polyvid microbial biofilms, with the inclusion of metal nanoparticles and chemical elements, as well as immunoglobulins. The obtained results of clinical and laboratory studies allow us to broaden the view on the pathogenesis of stone formation and suggest that the occurrence of the calcification of antigenic structures may be associated with the formation of IgG4-associated disease.
PXD050779	39276099	Mass Spectrometry-Based Top-Down Proteomics in Nanomedicine: Proteoform-Specific Measurement of Protein Corona. 	Mass spectrometry-based top-down proteomics in nanomedicine: proteoform-specific measurement of protein corona	nanomedicine, plasma, protein corona, proteoform, top-down proteomics	Conventional mass spectrometry (MS)-based bottom-up proteomics (BUP) analysis of the protein corona [i.e., an evolving layer of biomolecules, mostly proteins, formed on the surface of nanoparticles (NPs) during their interactions with biomolecular fluids] enabled the nanomedicine community to partly identify the biological identity of NPs. Such an approach, however, fails to pinpoint the specific proteoforms-distinct molecular variants of proteins in the protein corona. The proteoform-level information could potentially advance the prediction of the biological fate and pharmacokinetics of nanomedicines. Recognizing this limitation, this study pioneers a robust and reproducible MS-based top-down proteomics (TDP) technique for characterizing proteoforms in the protein corona. Our TDP approach has successfully identified about 900 proteoforms in the protein corona of polystyrene NPs, ranging from 2 to 70 kDa, revealing proteoforms of 48 protein biomarkers with combinations of post-translational modifications, signal peptide cleavages, and/or truncations-details that BUP could not fully discern. This advancement in MS-based TDP offers a more advanced approach to characterize NP protein coronas, deepening our understanding of NPs' biological identities. We, therefore, propose using both TDP and BUP strategies to obtain more comprehensive information about the protein corona, which, in turn, can further enhance the diagnostic and therapeutic efficacy of nanomedicine technologies.
PXD051529	39276310	The influences of ApoE isoforms on endothelial adherens junctions and actin cytoskeleton responding to mCRP. 	The Influences of ApoE Isoforms on Endothelial Adherens Junctions and Actin Cytoskeleton Responding to mCRP	Alzheimer's disease (AD), Apolipoprotein E (ApoE), CD31 and pCD31, F-actin, LIM Domain and Actin Binding 1 (LIMA1), cerebrovascular, endothelia, monomeric C-reactive protein (mCRP)	Apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4) plays an important role responding to monomeric C-reactive protein (mCRP) via binding to CD31 leading to cerebrovascular damage and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Using phosphor-proteomic profiling, we found altered cytoskeleton proteins in the microvasculature of AD brains, including increased levels of hyperphosphorylated tau (pTau) and the actin-related protein, LIMA1. To address the hypothesis that cytoskeletal changes serve as early pathological signatures linked with CD31 in brain endothelia in ApoE4 carriers, ApoE4 knock-in mice intraperitoneal injected with mCRP revealed that mCRP increased the expressions of phosphorylated CD31 (pCD31) and LIMA1, and facilitate the binding of pCD31 to LIMA1. mCRP combined with recombinant APOE4 protein decreased interaction of CD31 and VE-Cadherin at adherens junctions (AJs), along with altered the expression of various actin cytoskeleton proteins, causing microvasculature damage. Notably, the APOE2 protein attenuated these changes. Overall, our study demonstrates that ApoE4 responds to mCRP to disrupt the endothelial AJs which link with the actin cytoskeleton and this pathway could play a key role in the barrier dysfunction leading to AD risk.
PXD052373	39276351	Diribonuclease activity eliminates toxic diribonucleotide accumulation. 	Diribonuclease activity eliminates toxic diribonucleotide accumulation	Bacteria, LCMS, Orn, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, RNA degradation, YCIV	RNA degradation is a central process required for transcriptional regulation. Eventually, this process degrades diribonucleotides into mononucleotides by specific diribonucleases. In Escherichia coli, oligoribonuclease (Orn) serves this function and is unique as the only essential exoribonuclease. Yet, related organisms, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa, display a growth defect but are viable without Orn, contesting its essentiality. Here, we take advantage of P. aeruginosa orn mutants to screen for suppressors that restore colony morphology and identified yciV. Purified YciV (RNase AM) exhibits diribonuclease activity. While RNase AM is present in all gamma-proteobacteria, phylogenetic analysis reveals differences that map to the active site. RNase AMPa expression in E. coli eliminates the necessity of orn. Together, these results show that diribonuclease activity prevents toxic diribonucleotide accumulation in gamma-proteobacteria, suggesting that diribonucleotides may be utilized to monitor RNA degradation efficacy. Because higher eukaryotes encode Orn, these observations indicate a conserved mechanism for monitoring RNA degradation.
PXD052897	39276772	Co-opting templated aggregation to degrade pathogenic tau assemblies and improve motor function. 	Co-opting templated aggregation to selectively degrade pathogenic tau assemblies	proteinopathies	Protein aggregation causes a wide range of neurodegenerative diseases. Targeting and removing aggregates, but not the functional protein, is a considerable therapeutic challenge. Here, we describe a therapeutic strategy called "RING-Bait," which employs an aggregating protein sequence combined with an E3 ubiquitin ligase. RING-Bait is recruited into aggregates, whereupon clustering dimerizes the RING domain and activates its E3 function, resulting in the degradation of the aggregate complex. We exemplify this concept by demonstrating the specific degradation of tau aggregates while sparing soluble tau. Unlike immunotherapy, RING-Bait is effective against both seeded and cell-autonomous aggregation. RING-Bait removed tau aggregates seeded from Alzheimer's disease (AD) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) brain extracts and was also effective in primary neurons. We used a brain-penetrant adeno-associated virus (AAV) to treat P301S tau transgenic mice, reducing tau pathology and improving motor function. A RING-Bait strategy could be applied to other neurodegenerative proteinopathies by replacing the Bait sequence to match the target aggregate.
PXD048568	39277864	Protein UFMylation regulates early events during ribosomal DNA-damage response. 	Protein UFMylation regulates ribosomal DNA double-stranded break repair	TCOF1, Treacle, UFMylation, hTERT-RPE1, nucleolus, ribosomal DNA repair	The highly repetitive and transcriptionally active ribosomal DNA (rDNA) genes are exceedingly susceptible to genotoxic stress. Induction of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) in rDNA repeats is associated with ataxia-telangiectasia-mutated (ATM)-dependent rDNA silencing and nucleolar reorganization where rDNA is segregated into nucleolar caps. However, the regulatory events underlying this response remain elusive. Here, we identify protein UFMylation as essential for rDNA-damage response in human cells. We further show the only ubiquitin-fold modifier 1 (UFM1)-E3 ligase UFL1 and its binding partner DDRGK1 localize to nucleolar caps upon rDNA damage and that UFL1 loss impairs ATM activation and rDNA transcriptional silencing, leading to reduced rDNA segregation. Moreover, analysis of nuclear and nucleolar UFMylation targets in response to DSB induction further identifies key DNA-repair factors including ATM, in addition to chromatin and actin network regulators. Taken together, our data provide evidence of an essential role for UFMylation in orchestrating rDNA DSB repair.
PXD053129	39278909	Proteomic analysis of cerebrospinal fluid of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients in the presence of autologous bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells. 	Proteomic analysis of cerebrospinal fluid of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients in the presence of autologous bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Cerebrospinal fluid, Mesenchymal stem cells	BACKGROUND: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal and rapidly progressive motoneuron degenerative disorder. There are still no drugs capable of slowing disease evolution or improving life quality of ALS patients. Thus, autologous stem cell therapy has emerged as an alternative treatment regime to be investigated in clinical ALS. METHOD: Using Proteomics and Protein-Protein Interaction Network analyses combined with bioinformatics, the possible cellular mechanisms and molecular targets related to mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs, 1 x 10(6) cells/kg, intrathecally in the lumbar region of the spine) were investigated in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of ALS patients who received intrathecal infusions of autologous bone marrow-derived MSCs thirty days after cell therapy. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD053129. RESULTS: Proteomics revealed 220 deregulated proteins in CSF of ALS subjects treated with MSCs compared to CSF collected from the same patients prior to MSCs infusion. Bioinformatics enriched analyses highlighted events of Extracellular matrix and Cell adhesion molecules as well as related key targets APOA1, APOE, APP, C4A, C5, FGA, FGB, FGG and PLG in the CSF of cell treated ALS subjects. CONCLUSIONS: Extracellular matrix and cell adhesion molecules as well as their related highlighted components have emerged as key targets of autologous MSCs in CSF of ALS patients. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrial.gov identifier NCT0291768. Registered 28 September 2016.
PXD055000	39279465	Combination of Metabolomics, Lipidomics, and Molecular Biology for the Investigation of the Metabolic Disturbance of Short-Term Administration of Emodin. 	Combination of Metabolomics, Lipidomics and Molecular Biology to Investigation of Metabolic Disturbance of Short-Term Administration of Emodin	LC-MS, Lipidomics, Metabolomics	Emodin, a natural anthraquinone derivative, is an active ingredient in many Chinese traditional herbs. Interestingly, although it is generally considered to possess hepatoprotective activity, some studies have also reported that it has a certain degree of hepatotoxicity. Additionally, the underlying metabolic regulation of emodin remains uncertain. Therefore, we conducted a nontargeted metabolomic study based on UHPLC/Q-Orbitrap-MS and NMR. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD055000. The results indicated a close association between the short-term administration of emodin and lipid metabolism. Moreover, a lipidomics investigation utilizing QTRAP 6500(+) UHPLC-MS/MS was conducted, with a focus on determining the position of C=C double bonds in unsaturated lipids based on Paterno-Buchi (PB) reaction to discover the metabolic disturbance more precisely. Specifically, lipidomics revealed elevated levels of free fatty acids (FFA) alongside notable reductions in sphingomyelin (SM) and triacylglycerol (TAG) levels. Furthermore, the combination of PB reaction and molecular biology results indicated that short-term administration of emodin may lead to the accumulation of n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids by up-regulating the expression of FASN, stearyl CoA desaturase 1 (SCD1), and cytosolic phospholipase A 2 (cPLA2). Simultaneously, up-regulation of cyclooxygenase-2 (Cox-2) expression was observed, potentially fostering the production of prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) and subsequent inflammation.
PXD052559	39279549	Characterization of Exosomes Released from Mycobacterium abscessus-Infected Macrophages. 	Characterization of Exosomes Released from Mycobacterium abscessus-infected Macrophages	Mycobacterium abscessus, exosomes, macrophages	Extracellular vesicles (EVs), such as exosomes, play a critical role in cell-to-cell communication and regulating cellular processes in recipient cells. Non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM), such as Mycobacterium abscessus, are a group of environmental bacteria that can cause severe lung infections in populations with pre-existing lung conditions, such as cystic fibrosis (CF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). There is limited knowledge of the engagement of EVs in the host-pathogen interactions in the context of NTM infections. In this study, we found that M. abscessus infection increased the release of a subpopulation of exosomes (CD9, CD63, and/or CD81 positive) by mouse macrophages in cell culture. Proteomic analysis of these vesicles demonstrated that M. abscessus infection affects the enrichment of host proteins in exosomes released by macrophages. When compared to exosomes from uninfected macrophages, exosomes released by M. abscessus-infected macrophages significantly improved M. abscessus growth and downregulated the intracellular level of glutamine in recipient macrophages in cell culture. Increasing glutamine concentration in the medium rescued intracellular glutamine levels and M. abscessus killing in recipient macrophages that were treated with exosomes from M. abscessus-infected macrophages. Taken together, our results indicate that exosomes may serve as extracellular glutamine eliminators that interfere with glutamine-dependent M. abscessus killing in recipient macrophages.
PXD063265	39281778	Comprehensive Serum Proteomic and Metabolomic Profiles of Pediatric Patients with Moyamoya Disease Reveal Core Pathways. 	Comprehensive Serum Proteomic and Metabolomic Profiles of Pediatric Patients with Moyamoya Disease Reveal Core Pathways	Moyamoya disease	Background: Moyamoya disease (MMD) signifies a cerebrovascular disorder with obscure origin and a more rapid and severe progression in children than adults. This investigation aims to uncover age-associated distinctions through proteomic and metabolomic profiling to gain insights into the underlying mechanisms of MMD. Methods: Twelve MMD patients-six children and six adults-along with six healthy controls (HC), participated, each providing a 10 mL blood sample. Serum proteomic and metabolomic analyses were conducted using ultra-performance liquid chromatography and high-resolution mass spectrometry, complemented by bioinformatics to identify differential biomolecules and their interactions. Pathway implications were ascertained using GO and KEGG enrichment analysis. Results: Notable proteomic and metabolomic discrepancies were observed between pediatric and adult MMD subjects. A total of 235 and 216 proteins varied in adult and pediatric cases compared to HCs, with 73 proteins shared. In addition, 129 and 74 anionic, plus 96 and 104 cationic metabolites, were differentially expressed in the pediatric and adult groups, respectively, with 34 anionic and 28 cationic metabolites in common. Age-specific biomolecules further characterized these distinctions. Enrichment analysis pinpointed immunity and inflammation pathways, with vitamin digestion and absorption highlighted as pivotal in pediatric MMD. Conclusion: This study unveils distinct metabolic and proteomic patterns within pediatric and adult MMD patients. The critical role of the vitamin digestion and absorption pathway in the pathogenesis of pediatric MMD offers novel insight into disease mechanisms.
PXD036510	39281837	The proteasome activator subunit PSME1 promotes HBV replication by inhibiting the degradation of HBV core protein. 	Protein mass Protein mass spectrometry was used to detect the degree of biotinylation of V5-APEX2-HBC-NES after adding H2O2, and to search for host factors that interact with HBV core protein.spectrometry was used to detect the degree of biotinylation of 	LC-MS/MS HBV HBC APEX2	Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a leading cause of liver cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma, representing a global health problem for which a functional cure is difficult to achieve. The HBV core protein (HBc) is essential for multiple steps in the viral life cycle. It is the building block of the nucleocapsid in which viral DNA reverse transcription occurs, and its mediation role in viral-host cell interactions is critical to HBV infection persistence. However, systematic studies targeting HBc-interacting proteins remain lacking. Here, we combined HBc with the APEX2 to systematically identify HBc-related host proteins in living cells. Using functional screening, we confirmed that proteasome activator subunit 1 (PSME1) is a potent HBV-associated host factor. PSME1 expression was up-regulated upon HBV infection, and the protein level of HBc decreased after PSME1 knockdown. Mechanistically, the interaction between PSME1 and HBc inhibited the degradation of HBc by the 26S proteasome, thereby improving the stability of the HBc protein. Furthermore, PSME1 silencing inhibits HBV transcription in the HBV infection system. Our findings reveal an important mechanism by which PSME1 regulates HBc proteins and may facilitate the development of new antiviral therapies targeting PSME1 function.
PXD044584	39282282	Molecular glues that inhibit specific Zn (2+) -dependent DUB activity and inflammation. 	First-in-class DUB Molecular Glues and Inhibitors of Inflammation	deubiquitylase, hdx, hydrogen deuterium exchange, inhibitor, molecular glues	Deubiquitylases (DUBs) play a pivotal role in cell signalling and are often regulated by homo- or hetero-interactions within protein complexes. The BRCC36 isopeptidase complex (BRISC) regulates inflammatory signalling by selectively cleaving K63-linked polyubiquitin chains on Type I interferon receptors (IFNAR1). BRCC36 is a Zn (2+) -dependent JAMM/MPN DUB, a challenging ubiquitin protease class for the design of selective inhibitors. We identified first-in-class DUB inhibitors that act as B RISC molecular g lues (BLUEs). BLUEs inhibit DUB activity by stabilising a BRISC dimer consisting of 16 subunits. The BLUE-stabilised BRISC dimer is an autoinhibited conformation, whereby the active sites and interactions with the recruiting subunit SHMT2 are blocked. This unique mode of action leads to highly selective inhibitors for BRISC over related complexes with the same catalytic subunit, splice variants and other JAMM/MPN DUBs. Structure-guided inhibitor resistant mutants confirm BLUEs on-target activity in cells, and BLUE treatment results in reduced interferon-stimulated gene (ISG) expression in human peripheral blood mononuclear cells from Scleroderma patients, a disease linked with aberrant IFNAR1 activation. BLUEs represent a new class of molecules with potential utility in Type I interferon-mediated diseases and a template for designing selective inhibitors of large protein complexes by promoting protein-protein interactions instead of blocking them.
PXD043474	39282712	Impact of smoking habit on the subgingival proteome in patients with periodontitis. 	Using SWATH-MS to Identify New Molecular Biomarkers in Gingival Crevicular Fluid for Detecting Periodontitis and its Response to Treatment	Diagnostic accuracy, SWATH-MS, gingival crevicular fluid, molecular biomarkers, periodontitis	BACKGROUND: Few investigations evaluated smoking's impact on the periodontal proteome. Therefore, this study aimed to analyse the influence of tobacco on the overall periodontal proteome and the differential expression of gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) proteins using sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH-MS). METHODS: GCF samples were collected from 40 periodontitis subjects (stages III-IV). These were separated based on smoking status into smokers (17), ex-smokers (10), and non-smokers (13). Samples were analysed using SWATH-MS, and proteins were identified using the UniProt human-specific database. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD043474. Principal component analysis (PCA) was employed to examine the spectral mass distribution of the proteome. Protein expression was different for a p-value <0.05 and a log2 fold change >=0.3 (upregulated) or <=-0.3 (downregulated). RESULTS: The distribution of overall proteome did not differ between non-smokers, smokers, and ex-smokers. Considering protein expression, 23 were differentially expressed in smokers vs. non-smokers (16 upregulated and 7 downregulated), 17 in ex-smokers vs. non-smokers (2 upregulated and 15 downregulated), and only 8 in smokers vs. ex-smokers (7 upregulated and 1 downregulated). Smoking increased the expression of proteins related to epithelial hyperkeratinization (keratins type II cytoskeletal 4, type I cytoskeletal 13 and type I cytoskeletal 19, cornulin, and fatty acid-binding protein 5). However, multiple immunoglobulins were underexpressed when comparing smokers and ex-smokers to non-smokers. CONCLUSION: Although smoking does not significantly modify the overall GCF proteome associated with periodontitis, it alters the expression of several proteins compared to never-smokers and ex-smokers. PLAIN LANGUAGE SUMMARY: Smoking is a critical risk factor for the development and progression of periodontitis. However, evidence of the effect of smoking on the subgingival proteome is scarce. Therefore, this study aimed to determine the impact of smoking on the overall proteome and differential expression of gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) proteins using the sequential window acquisition of all theoretical mass spectra (SWATH-MS) proteomic technique. For this purpose, GCF samples were collected from 40 subjects with periodontitis, of which 17 were smokers, 10 were ex-smokers, and 13 were non-smokers. These samples were analysed by SWATH-MS, and proteins were identified using the UniProt human-specific database. Analysis of the overall proteome showed that its distribution was not significantly different between smokers, ex-smokers, and non-smokers. However, several proteins were found to be differentially expressed according to the smoking status. Smoking can increase the expression of several keratins and proteins related to hyperkeratinization of the epithelium. However, in ex-smokers, these proteins return to similar levels to those of non-smokers. Moreover, smoking may induce a lower expression of proteins related to adaptive immunity, such as immunoglobulins. This immunosuppressive effect may persist in ex-smokers.
PXD050363	39284794	Influence of Software Settings on the Identification Rate, Quantification Results, and Reproducibility in Profiling Post-Translational Modifications by Microflow Liquid Chromatography-Ion Mobility-Quadrupole Time-Of-Flight Analysis Using PEAKS Software. 	bovine alpha-lactalbumine microLC-timsTOF PRo	PTM, a-lactalbumin, bovine, timsTOF PRO	The influence of data evaluation parameters on qualitative and quantitative results of untargeted shotgun profiling of enzymatic and nonenzymatic post-translational modifications (PTMs) was investigated in a model of bovine whey protein alpha-lactalbumin heated with lactose. Based on the same raw data, individual adjustments to the protein database and enzyme settings of PEAKS studio software increased the identification rate from 27 unmodified peptides to 48 and from 322 peptides in total to 535. The qualitative and quantitative reproducibility was also assessed based on 18 measurements of one sample across three batches. A total of 570 peptides were detected. While 89 peptides were identified in all measurements, the majority of peptides (161) were detected only once and mostly based on nonindicative spectra. The reproducibility of label-free quantification (LFQ) in six measurements of the same sample was similar after processing the data by either the PTM algorithm or the LFQ algorithm. In both cases, about one-third of the peptides showed a coefficient of variation of above 20%. However, the LFQ algorithm increased the number of quantified peptides from 75 to 179. Data are available at the PRIDE Archive with the data set identifier PXD050363.
PXD053919	39284850	N1-Methylpseudouridine and pseudouridine modifications modulate mRNA decoding during translation. 	N1-Methylpseudouridine and pseudouridine modifications modulate mRNA decoding during translation	N1-methylpseudouridine, ribosome, translation	The ribosome utilizes hydrogen bonding between mRNA codons and aminoacyl-tRNAs to ensure rapid and accurate protein production. Chemical modification of mRNA nucleobases can adjust the strength and pattern of this hydrogen bonding to alter protein synthesis. We investigate how the N1-methylpseudouridine (m(1)Psi) modification, commonly incorporated into therapeutic and vaccine mRNA sequences, influences the speed and fidelity of translation. We find that m(1)Psi does not substantially change the rate constants for amino acid addition by cognate tRNAs or termination by release factors. However, we also find that m(1)Psi can subtly modulate the fidelity of amino acid incorporation in a codon-position and tRNA dependent manner in vitro and in human cells. Our computational modeling shows that altered energetics of mRNA:tRNA interactions largely account for the context dependence of the low levels of miscoding we observe on Psi and m(1)Psi containing codons. The outcome of translation on modified mRNA bases is thus governed by the sequence context in which they occur.
PXD052418	39284914	ER-phagy restrains inflammatory responses through its receptor UBAC2. 	ER-phagy restrains inflammatory responses through receptor UBAC2	ER-phagy, MARK2, UBAC2, colitis, inflammatory responses	ER-phagy, a selective form of autophagic degradation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) fragments, plays an essential role in governing ER homeostasis. Dysregulation of ER-phagy is associated with the unfolded protein response (UPR), which is a major clue for evoking inflammatory diseases. However, the molecular mechanism underpinning the connection between ER-phagy and disease remains poorly defined. Here, we identified ubiquitin-associated domain-containing protein 2 (UBAC2) as a receptor for ER-phagy, while at the same time being a negative regulator of inflammatory responses. UBAC2 harbors a canonical LC3-interacting region (LIR) in its cytoplasmic domain, which binds to autophagosomal GABARAP. Upon ER-stress or autophagy activation, microtubule affinity-regulating kinase 2 (MARK2) phosphorylates UBAC2 at serine (S) 223, promoting its dimerization. Dimerized UBAC2 interacts more strongly with GABARAP, thus facilitating selective degradation of the ER. Moreover, by affecting ER-phagy, UBAC2 restrains inflammatory responses and acute ulcerative colitis (UC) in mice. Our findings indicate that ER-phagy directed by a MARK2-UBAC2 axis may provide targets for the treatment of inflammatory disease.
PXD043980	39284949	Infection length and host environment influence on Plasmodium falciparum dry season reservoir. 	characterisation of plasma from children living in a malaria endemic area of seasonal transmission	asymptomatic, dry-season, malaria, plasma	Persistence of malaria parasites in asymptomatic hosts is crucial in areas of seasonally-interrupted transmission, where P. falciparum bridges wet seasons months apart. During the dry season, infected erythrocytes exhibit extended circulation with reduced cytoadherence, increasing the risk of splenic clearance of infected cells and hindering parasitaemia increase. However, what determines parasite persistence for long periods of time remains unknown. Here, we investigated whether seasonality affects plasma composition so that P. falciparum can detect and adjust to changing serological cues; or if alternatively, parasite infection length dictates clinical presentation and persistency. Data from Malian children exposed to alternating ~6-month wet and dry seasons show that plasma composition is unrelated to time of year in non-infected children, and that carrying P. falciparum only minimally affects plasma constitution in asymptomatic hosts. Parasites persisting in the blood of asymptomatic children from the dry into the ensuing wet season rarely if ever appeared to cause malaria in their hosts as seasons changed. In vitro culture in the presence of plasma collected in the dry or the wet seasons did not affect parasite development, replication or host-cell remodelling. The absence of a parasite-encoded sensing mechanism was further supported by the observation of similar features in P. falciparum persisting asymptomatically in the dry season and parasites in age- and sex-matched asymptomatic children in the wet season. Conversely, we show that P. falciparum clones transmitted early in the wet season had lower chance of surviving until the end of the following dry season, contrasting with a higher likelihood of survival of clones transmitted towards the end of the wet season, allowing for the re-initiation of transmission. We propose that the decreased virulence observed in persisting parasites during the dry season is not due to the parasites sensing ability, nor is it linked to a decreased capacity for parasite replication but rather a consequence decreased cytoadhesion associated with infection length.
PXD054165	39285282	Microglia mediate memory dysfunction via excitatory synaptic elimination in a fracture surgery mouse model. 	mouse hippocampus 4D label free proteomic	hippocampus	Cognitive impairment is a common issue among human patients undergoing surgery, yet the neural mechanism causing this impairment remains unidentified. Surgical procedures often lead to glial cell activation and neuronal hypoexcitability, both of which are known to contribute to postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD). However, the role of neuron-glia crosstalk in the pathology of POCD is still unclear. Through integrated transcriptomics and proteomics analyses, we found that the complement cascades and microglial phagocytotic signaling pathways are activated in a mouse model of POCD. Following surgery, there is a significant increase in the presence of complement C3, but not C1q, in conjunction with presynaptic elements. This triggers a reduction in excitatory synapses, a decline in excitatory synaptic transmission, and subsequent memory deficits in the mouse model. By genetically knockout out C3ar1 or inhibiting p-STAT3 signaling, we successfully prevented neuronal hypoexcitability and alleviated cognitive impairment in the mouse model. Therefore, targeting the C3aR and downstream p-STAT3 signaling pathways could serve as potential therapeutic approaches for mitigating POCD.
PXD051733	39285878	Optimizing workflow efficiency for analyzing low molecular weight endogenous peptides in colostrum. 	Optimizing Workflow Efficiency for Analyzing Low Molecular Weight Endogenous Peptides in Colostrum	Bovine, Colostrum, Endogenous peptides	Bovine milk and colostrum play pivotal roles in the nutritional support of both human and bovine infants. Colostrum, the initial milk secretion, is crucial for neonatal growth, providing essential nutrients, growth factors, immunity, and defense mechanisms through a diverse array of bioactive compounds, including bioactive proteins and peptides. Peptidomics, leveraging the potential health benefits of peptides derived from food and body fluids, has become prominent in contemporary research. Endogenous peptides (EPs) have gained notable scientific and commercial interest due to their potential biofunctional significance in areas such as immune health, antimicrobial, anti-inflammatory, antihypertensive, and antioxidative studies. In this investigation, we aimed to extract and analyze low molecular weight EPs from colostrum using four distinct peptide extraction methods, previously employed for EPs extraction from other bodily fluids. The efficiency of these methods was systematically compared and analysed to identify the most effective extraction technique for maximizing the identification of low molecular weight EPs from colostrum. This study represents a pioneering effort as no prior research has systematically compared different extraction methods for low molecular weight EPs from colostrum. Given the unique physical and chemical composition of colostrum compared to milk and other body fluids, a comprehensive analysis of EPs extraction methods was deemed essential. In the present study, we successfully extracted over 3200 EPs from colostrum using trichloroacetic acid (TCA) and a molecular weight cut off (MWCO) extraction method. The findings of this study revealed the extraction of EPs from colostrum, demonstrating potential inherent bioactivities as predicted by in silico tools.
PXD053841	39286182	Transcriptome and proteomic analysis reveal the protective mechanism of acupuncture on reproductive function in mice with asthenospermia. 	The effect of acupuncture on proteomics in mice with asthenozoospermia	acupuncture, asthenozoospermia,testis, LC-MS/MS	Acupuncture is an integral component of complementary and alternative medicine that has been reported to enhance sperm motility, improve semen quality, and consequently augment male fertility. However, the precise mechanisms of action and the underlying molecular pathways remain unclear. In the present study, we aimed to elucidate the potential mechanisms through which acupuncture improves reproductive function in a mouse model of cyclophosphamide-induced asthenozoospermia. We collected sperm from the epididymis for semen analysis, collected serum to determine gonadotropin and oxidative stress marker levels, conducted histological examination of testicular tissue using hematoxylin and eosin (HE) and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining, and observed mitochondrial morphology using transmission electron microscopy (TEM). We also assessed oxidative stress levels and total iron content in testicular tissue and validated the proteomic and transcriptomic analysis results of testicular tissue using real-time reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (RT-qPCR), protein imprinting analysis, and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Our results indicate that acupuncture enhances sperm quality in asthenozoospermic mice; increases serum testosterone (T), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and luteinizing hormone (LH) levels; and attenuates oxidative damage, iron accumulation, and mitochondrial injury in mouse testicular tissues. Through protein and transcriptomic analyses, we identified 21 key genes, of which cytochrome b-245 heavy chain (CYBB), glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4), acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain family member 1 (ACSL1), and ferritin mitochondria (FTMT) were closely associated with ferroptosis. RT-qPCR, protein imprinting, and immunofluorescence (IF) analyses collectively indicated that acupuncture reduced ACSL1 and CYBB expression, and increased GPX4 and FTMT expression. Overall, the ferroptosis pathway associated with ACSL1/CYBB/FTMT/GPX4 represents a potential strategy through which acupuncture can improve the reproductive function in asthenozoospermic mice.
PXD048610	39286353	Multiomic Profiling and Neuroprotective Bioactivity of Salvia Hairy Root-Derived Extracellular Vesicles in a Cellular Model of Parkinson's Disease. 	Analysis of protein of vesicles from hairy root of Salvia Sclarea	LC-MS, Salvia sclarea, vesicles	Purpose: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are promising tools for nanomedicine and nanobiotechnology. The purification of mammalian-derived EVs involves intensive processes, and their therapeutic application raises multiple safety and regulatory issues. Plants have the potential to serve as nonconventional sources of therapeutically relevant EVs. In this context, we recently identified hairy roots (HRs) of medicinal plants as a novel biotechnological platform to produce EVs for human health. Methods: Herein, we report the purification, omics profiling, and bioactivity of EVs isolated from HRs of the medicinal plants S. sclarea and S. dominica. EVs were isolated from conditioned media of HR cultures using differential ultracentrifugation (dUC) and size exclusion chromatography (SEC). The isolated EVs were characterized by nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) and electron microscopy. The proteomic and metabolomic profiles of the EVs were determined using mass spectrometry. Uptake studies and bioactivity assays, including confocal microscopy, MTT, flow cytometry, ROS quantification, and untargeted metabolomics analyses, were conducted in SH-SY5Y cells treated with the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) to evaluate the therapeutic potential of EVs in an in vitro model of Parkinson's disease. Results: S. sclarea HRs released nanosized round-shaped EVs with a distinctive molecular signature. HR EVs from S. sclarea and S. dominica revealed conserved cargo of secondary metabolites, predominantly triterpenoids, which are known for their antioxidant properties. We showed that HR EVs are safe, enter the cells, and strongly inhibit apoptosis in a cellular model of Parkinson's disease. Cellular metabolomics revealed that EVs preserved metabolic homeostasis and mitigated cellular oxidative stress when co-administered with 6-OHDA. Mechanistically, HR EVs inhibited 6-OHDA autoxidation and substantially reduced the accumulation of its oxidative products, which are responsible for 6-OHDA-induced toxicity. Conclusion: Collectively, our findings provide compelling evidence that EVs isolated from the hairy roots of Salvia species are promising, non-mammalian alternative for the design of novel therapies targeting neurological disorders.
PXD042117	39287399	Phospholipid biosynthesis regulation for improving pigment production by Monascus in response to ammonium chloride stress. 	TMT quantitative proteomics analysis between Monascus purpureus  LQ-6 and  BWY-5	Monascus purpureus  LQ-6, Monascus purpureus BWY-5, TMT quantitative proteomics	In the actual industrial production process, the efficient biosynthesis and secretion of Monascus pigments (MPs) tend to take place under abiotic stresses, which often result in an imbalance of cell homeostasis. The present study aimed to thoroughly describe the changes in lipid profiles in Monascus purpureus by absolute quantitative lipidomics and tandem mass tag-based quantitative proteomics. The results showed that ammonium chloride stress (15 g/L) increased MP production while inhibiting ergosterol biosynthesis, leading to an imbalance in membrane lipid homeostasis in Monascus. In response to the imbalance of lipid homeostasis, the regulation mechanism of phospholipids in Monascus was implemented, including the inhibition of lysophospholipids production, maintenance of the ratio of PC/PE, and improvement of the biosynthesis of phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylserine, and cardiolipin with high saturated and long carbon chain fatty acids through the CDP-DG pathway rather than the Kennedy pathway. The inhibition of lysophospholipid biosynthesis was attributed to the upregulated expression of protein and its gene related to lysophospholipase NTE1, while maintenance of the PC/PE ratio was achieved by the upregulated expression of protein and its gene related to CTP: phosphoethanolamine cytidylyltransferase and phosphatidylethanolamine N-methyltransferase in the Kennedy pathway. These findings provide insights into the regulation mechanism of MP biosynthesis from new perspectives.IMPORTANCEMonascus is important in food microbiology as it produces natural colorants known as Monascus pigments (MPs). The industrial production of MPs has been achieved by liquid fermentation, in which the nitrogen source (especially ammonium chloride) is a key nutritional parameter. Previous studies have investigated the regulatory mechanisms of substance and energy metabolism, as well as the cross-protective mechanisms in Monascus in response to ammonium chloride stress. Our research in this work demonstrated that ammonium chloride stress also caused an imbalance of membrane lipid homeostasis in Monascus due to the inhibition of ergosterol biosynthesis. We found that the regulation mechanism of phospholipids in Monascus was implemented, including inhibition of lysophospholipids production, maintenance of the ratio of PC/PE, and improvement of biosynthesis of phosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylserine, and cardiolipin with high saturated and long carbon chain fatty acids through the CDP-DG pathway. These findings further refine the regulatory mechanisms of MP production and secretion.
PXD052730	39287727	Timed topical dexamethasone eye drops improve mitochondrial function to prevent severe retinopathy of prematurity. 	Timed topical dexamethasone eye drops improve mitochondrial function to suppress severe retinopathy of prematurity.	Retinopathy of prematurity, dexamethasone, eye drop, oxygen-induced retinopathy, steroid	Pathological neovascularization in retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) can cause visual impairment in preterm infants. Current ROP treatments which are not preventative and only address late neovascular ROP, are costly and can lead to severe complications. We showed that topical 0.1% dexamethasone eye drops administered prior to peak neovessel formation prevented neovascularization in five extremely preterm infants at high risk for ROP and suppressed neovascularization by 30% in mouse oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) modeling ROP. In contrast, in OIR, topical dexamethasone treatment before any neovessel formation had limited efficacy in preventing later neovascularization, while treatment after peak neovessel formation had a non-statistically significant trend to exacerbating disease. Optimally timed topical dexamethasone suppression of neovascularization in OIR was associated with increased retinal mitochondrial gene expression and decreased inflammatory marker expression, predominantly found in immune cells. Blocking mitochondrial ATP synthetase reversed the inhibitory effect of dexamethasone on neovascularization in OIR. This study provides new insights into topical steroid effects in retinal neovascularization and into mitochondrial function in phase II ROP, and suggests a simple clinical approach to prevent severe ROP.
PXD047313	39288270	Quantitative proteomics of patient fibroblasts reveal biomarkers and diagnostic signatures of mitochondrial disease. 	Proteomics in fibroblasts from mitochondrial disease patients	Fibroblasts, LFQ-DDA, Mitochondrial Disease, VUS	BACKGROUND: Mitochondrial diseases belong to the group of inborn errors of metabolism (IEM), with a prevalence of 1:2,000-1:5,000. They are the most common form of IEM, but despite advances in next-generation sequencing technologies, almost half of the patients are left genetically undiagnosed. METHODS: We investigated a cohort of 61 patients with defined mitochondrial disease to improve diagnostics, identify biomarkers, and correlate metabolic pathways to specific disease groups. Clinical presentations were structured using human phenotype ontology terms, and mass spectrometry-based proteomics was performed on primary fibroblasts. Additionally, we integrated six patients carrying variants of uncertain significance (VUS) to test proteomics as a diagnostic expansion. RESULTS: Proteomic profiles from patient samples could be classified according to their biochemical and genetic characteristics, with the expression of five proteins (GPX4, MORF4L1, MOXD1, MSRA and TMED9) correlating with the disease cohort, and thus, acting as putative biomarkers. Pathway analysis showed a deregulation of inflammatory and mitochondrial stress responses. This included the upregulation of glycosphingolipid metabolism and mitochondrial protein import, as well as the downregulation of arachidonic acid metabolism. Furthermore, we could assign pathogenicity to a VUS in MRPS23 by demonstrating the loss of associated mitochondrial ribosome subunits. CONCLUSION: We established mass spectrometry-based proteomics on patient fibroblasts as a viable and versatile tool for diagnosing patients with mitochondrial disease. FUNDING: The NovoNordisk Foundation, Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation, Wellcome Centre for Mitochondrial Research, UK Medical Research Council, and the UK NHS Highly Specialised Service for Rare Mitochondrial Disorders of Adults and Children.
PXD029469	39288533	Polymeric immunoglobulin receptor promotes Th2 immune response in the liver by increasing cholangiocytes derived IL-33: a diagnostic and therapeutic biomarker of biliary atresia. 	proteomic analysis of serum samples of 11 biliary stresia pateints and 9 age matched healthy controls	biliary stresia, plasma	BACKGROUND: Biliary atresia (BA) is a devastating neonatal cholangiopathy with an unclear pathogenesis, and prompt diagnosis of BA is currently challenging. METHODS: Proteomic and immunoassay analyses were performed with serum samples from 250 patients to find potential BA biomarkers. The expression features of polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (PIGR) were investigated using human biopsy samples, three different experimental mouse models, and cultured human biliary epithelial cells (BECs). Chemically modified small interfering RNA and adenovirus expression vector were applied for in vivo silencing and overexpressing PIGR in a rotavirus-induced BA mouse model. Luminex-based multiplex cytokine assays and RNA sequencing were used to explore the molecular mechanism of PIGR involvement in the BA pathogenesis. FINDINGS: Serum levels of PIGR, poliovirus receptor (PVR), and aldolase B (ALDOB) were increased in BA patients and accurately distinguished BA from infantile hepatitis syndrome (IHS). Combined PIGR and PVR analysis distinguished BA from IHS with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.968 and an accuracy of 0.935. PIGR expression was upregulated in the biliary epithelium of BA patients; Th1 cytokines TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma induced PIGR expression in BECs via activating NF-kappaB pathway. Silencing PIGR alleviated symptoms, reduced IL-33 expression, and restrained hepatic Th2 inflammation in BA mouse model; while overexpressing PIGR increased liver fibrosis and IL-33 expression, and boosted hepatic Th2 inflammation in BA mouse model. PIGR expression promotes the proliferation and epithelial-mesenchymal transition, and reduced the apoptosis of BECs. INTERPRETATION: PIGR participated in BA pathogenesis by promoting hepatic Th2 inflammation via increasing cholangiocytes derived IL-33; PIGR has the value as a diagnostic and therapeutic biomarker of BA. FUNDING: This study was financially supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China (82170529), the National Key R&D Program (2021YFC2701003), and the National Natural Science Foundation of China (82272022).
PXD046819	39289494	Tissue-specific accumulation of PIP aquaporins of a particular heteromeric composition is part of the maize response to mycorrhiza and drought. 	The tissue-specific accumulation of PIP aquaporins of a particular heteromeric composition is the part of the maize response to mycorrhiza and drought	Rhizophagus irregularis, Zea mays, arbuscular mycorrhiza, drought tolerance, heteromerization, plasma membrane aquaporins, protein expression	The systemic coordination of accumulation of plasma membrane aquaporins (PIP) was investigated in this study in relation to mycorrhized maize response to a rapid development of severe drought followed by rewatering. In non-mycorrhizal roots, drought led to a drop in PIP abundance, followed by a transient increase under rewatering, whereas leaves showed an opposite pattern. In contrast, mycorrhiza contributed to maintenance of high and stable levels of PIPs in both plant organs after an initial increase, prolonged over the irrigation period. Isoelectric focusing electrophoresis resolved up to 13 aquaporin complexes with highly reproducible pl positions across leaf and root samples, symbiotic and non-symbiotic, stressed or not. Mass spectrometry recognized in leaves and roots a different ratio of PIP1 and PIP2 subunits within 2D spots that accumulated the most. Regardless of symbiotic status, drought regulation of aquaporins in roots was manifested as the prevalence of complexes that comprise almost exclusively PIP2 monomers. In contrast, the leaf response involved enrichment in PIP1s. PIP1s are thought to enhance water transport, facilitate CO2 diffusion but also affect stomatal movements. These features, together with elevated aquaporin levels, might explain a stress tolerance mechanism observed in mycorrhizal plants, resulting in faster recovery of stomatal water conductance and CO2 assimilation rate after drought.
PXD050584	39290339	3D bioprinted breast cancer model reveals stroma-mediated modulation of extracellular matrix and radiosensitivity. 	Cancer-associated fibroblasts shape microenvironment dynamics in a 3D bioprinted breast cancer model	ECM, breast cancer	Deciphering breast cancer treatment resistance remains hindered by the lack of models that can successfully capture the four-dimensional dynamics of the tumor microenvironment. Here, we show that microextrusion bioprinting can reproducibly generate distinct cancer and stromal compartments integrating cells relevant to human pathology. Our findings unveil the functional maturation of this millimeter-sized model, showcasing the development of a hypoxic cancer core and an increased surface proliferation. Maturation was also driven by the presence of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAF) that induced elevated microvascular-like structures complexity. Such modulation was concomitant to extracellular matrix remodeling, with high levels of collagen and matricellular proteins deposition by CAF, simultaneously increasing tumor stiffness and recapitulating breast cancer fibrotic development. Importantly, our bioprinted model faithfully reproduced response to treatment, further modulated by CAF. Notably, CAF played a protective role for cancer cells against radiotherapy, facilitating increased paracrine communications. This model holds promise as a platform to decipher interactions within the microenvironment and evaluate stroma-targeted drugs in a context relevant to human pathology.
PXD039728	39292338	Urolithin a Improves Motor Dysfunction Induced by Copper Exposure in SOD1(G93A) Transgenic Mice Via Activation of Mitophagy. 	Copper exposure aggravates motor phenotype via inhibiting mitophagy in SOD1G93A transgenic mice	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Motor performance, copper, mitophagy	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disease pathologically characterized by selective degeneration of motor neurons resulting in a catastrophic loss of motor function. The present study aimed to investigate the effect of copper (Cu) exposure on progression of ALS and explore the therapeutic effect and mechanism of Urolithin A (UA) on ALS. 0.13 PPM copper chloride drinking water was administrated in SOD1(G93A) transgenic mice at 6 weeks, UA at a dosage of 50 mg/kg/day was given for 6 weeks after a 7-week Cu exposure. Motor ability was assessed before terminal anesthesia. Muscle atrophy and fibrosis, motor neurons, astrocytes and microglia in the spinal cord were evaluated by H&E, Masson, Sirius Red, Nissl and Immunohistochemistry Staining. Proteomics analysis, Western blotting and ELISA were conducted to detect protein expression. Mitochondrial adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and malondialdehyde (MDA) levels were measured using an assay kit. Cu-exposure worsened motor function, promoted muscle fibrosis, loss of motor neurons, and astrocyte and microglial activation. It also induced abnormal changes in mitochondria-related biological processes, leading to a significant reduction in ATP levels and an increase in MDA levels. Upregulation of P62 and downregulation of Parkin, PINK1, and LAMP1 were revealed in SOD1(G93A) mice with Cu exposure. Administration of UA activated mitophagy, modulated mitochondria dysfunction, reduced neuroinflammation, and improved gastrocnemius muscle atrophy and motor dysfunction in SOD1(G93A) mice with Cu exposure. Mitophagy plays critical role in ALS exacerbated by Cu exposure. UA administration may be a promising treatment strategy for ALS.
PXD047303	39292790	Identification of immunogenic HLA class I and II neoantigens using surrogate immunopeptidomes. 	HLA-I and HLA-II peptidomes for NESSIE	HLA ligandome analysis, proteogenomics	Neoantigens arising from somatic mutations are tumor specific and induce antitumor host T cell responses. However, their sequences are individual specific and need to be identified for each patient for therapeutic applications. Here, we present a proteogenomic approach for neoantigen identification, named Neoantigen Selection using a Surrogate Immunopeptidome (NESSIE). This approach uses an autologous wild-type immunopeptidome as a surrogate for the tumor immunopeptidome and allows human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-agnostic identification of both HLA class I (HLA-I) and HLA class II (HLA-II) neoantigens. We demonstrate the direct identification of highly immunogenic HLA-I and HLA-II neoantigens using NESSIE in patients with colorectal cancer and endometrial cancer. Fresh or frozen tumor samples are not required for analysis, making it applicable to many patients in clinical settings. We also demonstrate tumor prevention by vaccination with selected neoantigens in a preclinical mouse model. This approach may benefit personalized T cell-mediated immunotherapies.
PXD051155	39292827	Analysis of Brain Protein Stability Changes in a Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease. 	Analysis of Brain Protein Stability Changes in Mouse Models of Alzheimer's Disease	Alzheimer's Disease, LiP, SPROX, TPP	The stability of proteins from rates of oxidation (SPROX), thermal proteome profiling (TPP), and limited proteolysis (LiP) techniques were used to profile the stability of ~2500 proteins in hippocampus tissue cell lysates from 2- and 8-months-old wild-type (C57BL/6J; n = 7) and transgenic (5XFAD; n = 7) mice with five Alzheimer's disease (AD)-linked mutations. Approximately 200-500 protein hits with AD-related stability changes were detected by each technique at each age point. The hit overlap from technique to technique was low, and all of the techniques generated protein hits that were more numerous and largely different from those identified in protein expression level analyses, which were also performed here. The hit proteins identified by each technique were enriched in a number of the same pathways and biological processes, many with known connections to AD. The protein stability hits included 25 high-value conformation biomarkers with AD-related stability changes detected using at least 2 techniques at both age points. Also discovered were subunit- and age-specific AD-related stability changes in the proteasome, which had reduced function at both age points. The different folding stability profiles of the proteasome at the two age points are consistent with a different mechanism for proteasome dysfunction at the early and late stages of AD.
PXD049312	39293027	Revisiting Protein Reversed-Phase Chromatography for Bottom-Up Proteomics. 	K562 cell lysates prefractionated by various methods	Biopharmaceuticals, Protein prefractionation, Proteoform, Reversed-phase chromatography	We revisited protein reversed-phase chromatography (RP), using state-of-the-art RP columns developed for biopharmaceuticals, such as monoclonal antibodies, in order to evaluate the suitability of this methodology as a prefractionation step for bottom-up proteomics. The protein RP prefractionation (Prot-RP) method was compared with two other widely used prefractionation methods, SDS-PAGE and high-pH peptide RP (Pept-RP) by using cell lysates as samples. The overlap between fractions of Prot-RP was comparable to that of SDS-PAGE, and the protein recovery was approximately 2-fold higher. On the other hand, the overlap between fractions of Prot-RP was slightly larger than that of Pept-RP, but Prot-RP was able to identify more protein termini and more isoform-specific peptides than Pept-RP. Our results indicate that the combination of highly efficient protein prefractionation with modern mass spectrometers is particularly effective for proteoform profiling from cellular samples.
PXD053618	39293215	Phosphoproteomics predict response to midostaurin plus chemotherapy in independent cohorts of FLT3-mutated acute myeloid leukaemia. 	Phosphoproteomics predict response to midostaurin plus chemotherapy in independent cohorts of FLT3-mutated acute myeloid leukaemia	acute myeloid leukemialeukaemia, drug response prediction, machine learning, midostaurin plus chemotherapy, phosphoproteomics, precision medicine	BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) is a bone marrow malignancy with poor prognosis. One of several treatments for AML is midostaurin combined with intensive chemotherapy (MIC), currently approved for FLT3 mutation-positive (FLT3-MP) AML. However, many patients carrying FLT3 mutations are refractory or experience an early relapse following MIC treatment, and might benefit more from receiving a different treatment. Development of a stratification method that outperforms FLT3 mutational status in predicting MIC response would thus benefit a large number of patients. METHODS: We employed mass spectrometry phosphoproteomics to analyse 71 diagnosis samples of 47 patients with FLT3-MP AML who subsequently received MIC. We then used machine learning to identify biomarkers of response to MIC, and validated the resulting predictive model in two independent validation cohorts (n = 20). FINDINGS: We identified three distinct phosphoproteomic AML subtypes amongst long-term survivors. The subtypes showed similar duration of MIC response, but different modulation of AML-implicated pathways, and exhibited distinct, highly-predictive biomarkers of MIC response. Using these biomarkers, we built a phosphoproteomics-based predictive model of MIC response, which we called MPhos. When applied to two retrospective real-world patient test cohorts (n = 20), MPhos predicted MIC response with 83% sensitivity and 100% specificity (log-rank p < 7*10(-5), HR = 0.005 [95% CI: 0-0.31]). INTERPRETATION: In validation, MPhos outperformed the currently-used FLT3-based stratification method. Our findings have the potential to transform clinical decision-making, and highlight the important role that phosphoproteomics is destined to play in precision oncology. FUNDING: This work was funded by Innovate UK grants (application numbers: 22217 and 10054602) and by Kinomica Ltd.
PXD048053	39293776	Degradomics defines proteolysis information flow from human knee osteoarthritis cartilage to matched synovial fluid and the contributions of secreted proteases ADAMTS5, MMP13 and CMA1 to articular cartilage breakdown. 	Proteolytic information flows from human knee osteoarthritic cartilage to synovial fluid and defines the roles of key drug targets -1	Cartilage, Osteoarthritis, Protease, Proteolysis, Synovial fluid	OBJECTIVES: Proteolytic cartilage extracellular matrix breakdown is a major mechanism of articular cartilage loss in osteoarthritis (OA) pathogenesis. We sought to determine the overlap of proteolytic peptides in matched knee OA cartilage and synovial fluid on a proteome-wide scale to increase the prospective biomarker repertoire and to attribute proteolytic cleavages to specific secreted proteases. DESIGN: Matched human knee OA cartilage and synovial fluid (n=5) were analyzed by N-terminomics using Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates (TAILS), comprising labeling and enrichment of protein N-termini, high-resolution mass spectrometry and positional peptide mapping. Donor non-OA articular cartilage was digested with CMA1, MMP13 or ADAMTS5, and TAILS was used to identify cleavage sites, which were matched against cartilage and synovial fluid degradomes. RESULTS: Of over 20,000 cleaved peptides in the combined OA cartilage and synovial fluid degradomes, 677 peptides, originating from 153 proteins, were present in all cartilage and synovial fluid samples. CMA1, MMP13 and ADAMTS5 digestion of cartilage identified numerous cleavage sites for each protease and distinct cleavage site preferences. Peptides resulting from the activities of these proteases were detected in OA cartilage and synovial fluid. CONCLUSIONS: Proteolytic fragments from both cartilage and circulating proteins are detectable by synovial fluid degradomics. CMA1, MMP13 and ADAMTS5 activity profiles in cartilage are distinct from each other and the previously determined HtrA1 profile. This work expands the proteolytic biomarker space for OA investigation, suggests that multiple, diverse proteases contribute to cartilage destruction, and demonstrates that their specific contributions can each be defined by multiple biomarkers.
PXD052155	39294191	Mosquito salivary apyrase regulates blood meal hemostasis and facilitates malaria parasite transmission. 	Mosquito salivary apyrase regulates blood meal hemostasis and drives malaria parasite transmission	Anopheles gambiae, Mosquito, Salivary glands, size-exclusion chromatography	The evolution of hematophagy involves a series of adaptations that allow blood-feeding insects to access and consume blood efficiently while managing and circumventing the host's hemostatic and immune responses. Mosquito, and other insects, utilize salivary proteins to regulate these responses at the bite site during and after blood feeding. We investigated the function of Anopheles gambiae salivary apyrase (AgApyrase) in regulating hemostasis in the mosquito blood meal and in Plasmodium transmission. Our results demonstrate that salivary apyrase, a known inhibitor of platelet aggregation, interacts with and activates tissue plasminogen activator, facilitating the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin, a human protease that degrades fibrin and facilitates Plasmodium transmission. We show that mosquitoes ingest a substantial amount of apyrase during blood feeding, which reduces coagulation in the blood meal by enhancing fibrin degradation and inhibiting platelet aggregation. AgApyrase significantly enhanced Plasmodium infection in the mosquito midgut, whereas AgApyrase immunization inhibited Plasmodium mosquito infection and sporozoite transmission. This study highlights a pivotal role for mosquito salivary apyrase for regulation of hemostasis in the mosquito blood meal and for Plasmodium transmission to mosquitoes and to the mammalian host, underscoring the potential for strategies to prevent malaria transmission.
PXD047963	39294440	The long non-coding RNA ROSALIND protects the mitochondrial translational machinery from oxidative damage. 	ROSALIND protects the mitochondrial translational machinery from oxidative damage	PDX, RAP-MS, RNA pull-down, melanoma, targeted therapy	Upregulation of mitochondrial respiration coupled with high ROS-scavenging capacity is a characteristic shared by drug-tolerant cells in several cancers. As translational fidelity is essential for cell fitness, protection of the mitochondrial and cytosolic ribosomes from oxidative damage is pivotal. While mechanisms for recognising and repairing such damage exist in the cytoplasm, the corresponding process in the mitochondria remains unclear.By performing Ascorbate PEroXidase (APEX)-proximity ligation assay directed to the mitochondrial matrix followed by isolation and sequencing of RNA associated to mitochondrial proteins, we identified the nuclear-encoded lncRNA ROSALIND as an interacting partner of ribosomes. ROSALIND is upregulated in recurrent tumours and its expression can discriminate between responders and non-responders to immune checkpoint blockade in a melanoma cohort of patients. Featuring an unusually high G content, ROSALIND serves as a substrate for oxidation. Consequently, inhibiting ROSALIND leads to an increase in ROS and protein oxidation, resulting in severe mitochondrial respiration defects. This, in turn, impairs melanoma cell viability and increases immunogenicity both in vitro and ex vivo in preclinical humanised cancer models. These findings underscore the role of ROSALIND as a novel ROS buffering system, safeguarding mitochondrial translation from oxidative stress, and shed light on potential therapeutic strategies for overcoming cancer therapy resistance.
PXD053058	39295558	Overexpression of SLC2A1, ALDOC, and PFKFB4 in the glycolysis pathway drives strong drug resistance in 3D HeLa tumor cell spheroids. 	Overexpression of SLC2A1, ALDOC and PFKFB4 in the glycolysis pathway drives strong drug resistance in 3D HeLa tumor cell spheroids	ALDOC and PFKFB4 in the glycolysis pathway drives strong drug resistance in 3D HeLa tumor cell spheroids, Overexpression of SLC2A1	The 3D multicellular tumor spheroid (MTS) model exhibits enhanced fidelity in replicating the tumor microenvironment and demonstrates exceptional resistance to clinical drugs compared to the 2D monolayer model. In this study, we used multiomics (transcriptome, proteomics, and metabolomics) tools to explore the molecular mechanisms and metabolic differences of the two culture models. Analysis of Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment pathways revealed that the differentially expressed genes between the two culture models were mainly enriched in cellular components and biological processes associated with extracellular matrix, extracellular structural organization, and mitochondrial function. An integrated analysis of three omics data revealed 11 possible drug resistance targets. Among these targets, seven genes, AKR1B1, ALDOC, GFPT2, GYS1, LAMB2, PFKFB4, and SLC2A1, exhibited significant upregulation. Conversely, four genes, COA7, DLD, IFNGR1, and QRSL1, were significantly downregulated. Clinical prognostic analysis using the TCGA survival database indicated that high-expression groups of SLC2A1, ALDOC, and PFKFB4 exhibited a significant negative correlation with patient survival. We further validated their involvement in chemotherapy drug resistance, indicating their potential significance in improving prognosis and chemotherapy outcomes. These results provide valuable insights into potential therapeutic targets that can potentially enhance treatment efficacy and patient outcomes.
PXD042393	39296215	Hepatic Dyrk1b impairs systemic glucose homeostasis by modulating Wbp2 expression in a kinase activity-dependent manner. 	Proteomic analysisidentifiesproteinsrelatedtoinsulin resistance	Insulin resistance, T2DM, TMT	Patients with gain-of-function mutations of Dyrk1b have higher fasting blood glucose (FBG) levels. However, the role of Dyrk1b in glucose metabolism is not fully elucidated. Herein, we found that hepatic Dyrk1b overexpression in mice impaired systemic glucose tolerance and hepatic insulin signaling. Dyrk1b overexpression in vitro attenuated insulin signaling in a kinase activity-dependent manner, and its kinase activity was required for its effect on systemic glucose homeostasis and hepatic insulin signaling in vivo. Dyrk1b ablation improved systemic glucose tolerance and hepatic insulin signaling in mice. Quantitative proteomic analyses showed that Dyrk1b downregulated WW domain-binding protein 2 (Wbp2) protein abundance. Mechanistically, Dyrk1b enhanced Wbp2 ubiquitylation and proteasomal degradation. Restoration of hepatic Wbp2 partially rescued the impaired glucose homeostasis in Dyrk1b overexpression mice. In addition, Dyrk1b inhibition with AZ191 moderately improved systemic glucose homeostasis. Our study uncovers that hepatic Dyrk1b impairs systemic glucose homeostasis via its modulation of Wbp2 expression in a kinase activity-dependent manner.
PXD053135	39296308	Quantitation of Host Cell Proteins by Capillary LC/IMS/MS/MS in Combination with Rapid Digestion on Immobilized Trypsin Column Under Native Conditions. 	Targeted Quantitation of Host Cell Proteins by Capillary LC/IMS/MS/MS in Combination with Rapid Digestion on Immobilized Trypsin Column Under Native Conditions	HCP, mAb, prm-PASEF	Host cell protein (HCP) impurities are considered a critical quality attribute of biopharmaceuticals because of their potential to compromise safety and efficacy, and LC/MS-based analytical methods have been developed to identify and quantify individual proteins instead of employing enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay to assess total HCP levels. Native digestion enables highly sensitive detection of HCPs but requires overnight incubation to generate peptides, limiting the throughput of sample preparation. In this study, we developed an approach employing native digestion on a trypsin-immobilized column to improve the sensitivity and throughput. We examined suitable databases for the identification of HCPs derived from Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells and selected RefSeq's Chinese Hamster as the optimal database. Then, we investigated methods to identify HCPs with greater efficiency than that of denatured in-solution digestion. Native in-column digestion not only reduced the digestion time from overnight to 10 min but also increased the number of quantified HCPs from 154 to 226. In addition to this rapid digestion methodology, we developed high-throughput LC/MS/MS with a monolithic silica column and parallel reaction monitoring-parallel accumulation-serial fragmentation. The optimized system was validated with synthetic peptides derived from high-risk HCPs, confirming excellent linearity, precision, accuracy, and low limit of detection (LOD) and limit of quantification (LOQ) (1-3 ppm). The optimized digestion and analysis method enabled high-throughput quantification of HCPs, and is expected to be useful for quality control and characterization of HCPs in antibody drugs.
PXD050583	39296356	Development of bioactive solid-foam scaffolds from decellularized cartilage with chondrogenic and osteogenic properties. 	Optimization of cartilage decellularization protocol yields post-processable extracellular matrix with chondrogenic and osteogenic biological properties	Cartilage, Decellularization, Extracellular matrix, collagen	Full osteochondral regeneration remains a major clinical challenge. Among other experimental cartilage regenerative approaches, decellularized cartilage (DCC) is considered a promising material for generating potentially implantable scaffolds useful as cartilage repair strategy. In this work, we focus on screening and comparing different decellularization methods, aiming to generate DCC potentially useful in biomedical context, and therefore, with biological activity and functional properties in terms of induction of differentiation and regeneration. Data indicates that enzymatic and detergents-based decellularization methods differentially affect ECM components, and that it has consequences in further biological behavior. SDS-treated DCC powder is not useful to be further processed in 2D or 3D structures, because these structures tend to rapidly solubilize, or disaggregate, in physiologic media conditions. Conversely, Trypsin-treated DCC powders can be processed to mechanically stable 2D films and 3D solid-foam scaffolds, presumably due to partial digestion of collagens during decellularization, which would ease crosslinking at DCC during solubilization and processing. In vitro cell culture studies indicate that these structures are biocompatible and induce and potentiate chondrogenic differentiation. In vivo implantation of DCC derived 3D porous scaffolds in rabbit osteochondral defects induce subchondral bone regeneration and fibrocartilage tissue formation after implantation. Therefore, this work defines an optimal cartilage tissue decellularization protocol able to generate DCC powders processable to biocompatible and bioactive 2D and 3D structures. These structures are useful for in vitro cartilage research and in vivo subchondral bone regeneration, while hyaline cartilage regeneration with DCC alone as implantable material remains elusive.
PXD054846	39297166	gp78-regulated KAP1 phosphorylation induces radioresistance in breast cancer by facilitating PPP1CC/PPP2CA ubiquitination. 	gp78-regulated KAP1 phosphorylation induces radioresistance in breast cancer by facilitating PPP1CC/PPP2CA ubiquitination	LC-MS/MS Analysis, gp78	Adjuvant radiation therapy is a common treatment for breast cancer, yet its effectiveness is often limited by radioresistance in patients. Identifying novel targets to combat this radioresistance is imperative. Recent investigations show that gp78 is upregulated in drug-resistant breast cancer cells. Our study reveals that gp78 markedly increased the phosphorylation of KAP1 and promoted DNA damage repair caused by ionizing radiation. Mechanistically, gp78 degrades phosphatases (PPP1CC/PPP2CA) in a ubiquitination-dependent manner. PPP1CC and PPP2CA are crucial regulators of KAP1 phosphorylation in response to DNA damage. Therefore, gp78 leads to a notable elevation in the phosphorylation of KAP1 by degrading phosphatases, thereby promoting the DNA damage repair process and increasing the radioresistance of tumor cells. The identification of gp78 as a pivotal regulator in radioresistance suggests a promising avenue for intervention. Combining blockade strategies targeting gp78 holds a signification potential for reversing radioresistance and improving the efficacy of breast cancer radiotherapy.
PXD048980	39298586	Germline mutations in a G protein identify signaling cross-talk in T cells. 	- Identification of Galphai2-interacting proteins via affinity pull-down and quantitative mass-spectrometry analysis.	- Galphai2, G-protein, G-protein coupled receptors, GNAI2, GPCRs	Humans with monogenic inborn errors responsible for extreme disease phenotypes can reveal essential physiological pathways. We investigated germline mutations in GNAI2, which encodes Galphai2, a key component in heterotrimeric G protein signal transduction usually thought to regulate adenylyl cyclase-mediated cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) production. Patients with activating Galphai2 mutations had clinical presentations that included impaired immunity. Mutant Galphai2 impaired cell migration and augmented responses to T cell receptor (TCR) stimulation. We found that mutant Galphai2 influenced TCR signaling by sequestering the guanosine triphosphatase (GTPase)-activating protein RASA2, thereby promoting RAS activation and increasing downstream extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)/mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT S6 signaling to drive cellular growth and proliferation.
PXD055440	39300073	The p-MYH9/USP22/HIF-1alpha axis promotes lenvatinib resistance and cancer stemness in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	The p-MYH9/USP22/HIF-1alpha axis promotes lenvatinib resistance and cancer stemness in hepatocellular carcinoma	hepatocellular carcinoma, lenvatinib, p-MYH9	Lenvatinib is a targeted drug used for first-line treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). A deeper insight into the resistance mechanism of HCC against lenvatinib is urgently needed. In this study, we aimed to dissect the underlying mechanism of lenvatinib resistance (LR) and provide effective treatment strategies. We established an HCC model of acquired LR. Cell counting, migration, self-renewal ability, chemoresistance and expression of stemness genes were used to detect the stemness of HCC cells. Molecular and biochemical strategies such as RNA-sequencing, immunoprecipitation, mass spectrometry and ubiquitination assays were used to explore the underlying mechanisms. Patient-derived HCC models and HCC samples from patients were used to demonstrate clinical significance. We identified that increased cancer stemness driven by the hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) pathway activation is responsible for acquired LR in HCC. Phosphorylated non-muscle myosin heavy chain 9 (MYH9) at Ser1943, p-MYH9 (Ser1943), could recruit ubiquitin-specific protease 22 (USP22) to deubiquitinate and stabilize HIF-1alpha in lenvatinib-resistant HCC. Clinically, p-MYH9 (Ser1943) expression was upregulated in HCC samples, which predicted poor prognosis and LR. A casein kinase-2 (CK2) inhibitor and a USP22 inhibitor effectively reversed LR in vivo and in vitro. Therefore, the p-MYH9 (Ser1943)/USP22/HIF-1alpha axis is critical for LR and cancer stemness. For the diagnosis and treatment of LR in HCC, p-MYH9 (Ser1943), USP22, and HIF-1alpha might be valuable as novel biomarkers and targets.
PXD041225	39300128	Targeted protein degradation using chimeric human E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes. 	Targeted protein degradation using E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes	bioPROTAC	Proteins can be targeted for degradation by engineering biomolecules that direct them to the eukaryotic ubiquitination machinery. For instance, the fusion of an E3 ubiquitin ligase to a suitable target binding domain creates a 'biological Proteolysis-Targeting Chimera' (bioPROTAC). Here we employ an analogous approach where the target protein is recruited directly to a human E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme via an attached target binding domain. Through rational design and screening we develop E2 bioPROTACs that induce the degradation of the human intracellular proteins SHP2 and KRAS. Using global proteomics, we characterise the target-specific and wider effects of E2 vs. VHL-based fusions. Taking SHP2 as a model target, we also employ a route to bioPROTAC discovery based on protein display libraries, yielding a degrader with comparatively weak affinity capable of suppressing SHP2-mediated signalling.
PXD053085	39300184	Characterization of the AGR2-NPM3 axis uncovers the AGR2 involvement in PD-L1 regulation in colorectal cancer. 	Human colorectal cancer cell lines with manipulated AGR2 expression SWATH MS	AGR2, SW480, SW620, SWATH MS, colorectal adenocarcinoma	Despite extensive research, the molecular role of AGR2 in the progression and metastasis of colorectal cancer (CRC) has not been fully characterized. We used quantitative mass spectrometry (SWATH MS) to identify differentially expressed proteins in paired CRC cell models of the SW480 and SW620 cell lines in response to AGR2 protein level manipulation. Relying on the results from SWATH MS and subsequent immunochemical validation, we selected NMP3 as the top candidate protein associated with AGR2 in CRC tumour cells in our screen. RT-qPCR and immunochemical analysis confirmed the involvement of AGR2-mediated regulation of NPM3 at the transcriptional and posttranscriptional levels. Since PD-L1 is a constituent of the NPM3 regulatory axis, we aimed to correlate the changes in PD-L1 to the differential expression of AGR2 in our cell models. We found that AGR2 positively regulates PD-L1 levels in both SW480 and SW620 cell lines; additionally, several different CRC patient transcriptome cohorts confirmed the association of AGR2 with PD-L1. Our work reveals a new AGR2-NPM3 regulatory axis and the involvement of AGR2 in the regulation of PD-L1, which paves the way for the association of AGR2 with immune evasion in CRC cells.
PXD033648	39302967	Genome of Halimeda opuntia reveals differentiation of subgenomes and molecular bases of multinucleation and calcification in algae. 	Comparative proteomics of the calcified red alga under different CO2 treatments	TMT, proteomics,calcified algae	Algae mostly occur either as unicellular (microalgae) or multicellular (macroalgae) species, both being uninucleate. There are important exceptions, however, as some unicellular algae are multinucleate and macroscopic, some of which inhabit tropical seas and contribute to biocalcification and coral reef robustness. The evolutionary mechanisms and ecological significance of multinucleation and associated traits (e.g., rapid wound healing) are poorly understood. Here, we report the genome of Halimeda opuntia, a giant multinucleate unicellular chlorophyte characterized by interutricular calcification. We achieve a high-quality genome assembly that shows segregation into four subgenomes, with evidence for polyploidization concomitant with historical sea level and climate changes. We further find myosin VIII missing in H. opuntia and three other unicellular multinucleate chlorophytes, suggesting a potential mechanism that may underpin multinucleation. Genome analysis provides clues about how the unicellular alga could survive fragmentation and regenerate, as well as potential signatures for extracellular calcification and the coupling of calcification with photosynthesis. In addition, proteomic alkalinity shifts were found to potentially confer plasticity of H. opuntia to ocean acidification (OA). Our study provides crucial genetic information necessary for understanding multinucleation, cell regeneration, plasticity to OA, and different modes of calcification in algae and other organisms, which has important implications in reef conservation and bioengineering.
PXD054307	39303527	Targeted inhibition of NRF2 reduces the invasive and metastatic ability of HIP1 depleted lung cancer cells. 	Targeted inhibition of NRF2 reduces the invasive and metastatic ability of HIP1 depleted lung cancer cells.	HIP1, NRF2, NSCLC	BACKGROUND: Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) presents as a highly metastatic disease with Kras and P53 as prevalent oncogenic driver mutations. Endocytosis, through its role in receptor recycling and enrichment, is important for cancer cell proliferation and metastasis. Huntingtin Interacting Protein 1 (HIP1) is a clathrin mediated endocytic adapter protein found overexpressed in different cancers. However, conflicting roles both as a tumour promoter and suppressor are reported. HIP1 expression is found repressed at advanced stages and some HIP1-ALK fusions are reported in NSCLC patients. However, the molecular mechanisms and implications of HIP1 depletion are not completely understood. METHODS: HIP1 depletion was performed using siRNA transient transfection and validated using immunoblotting for each experiment. Gene expression dataset from TCGA, GTEX and GEO databases was analysed to explore HIP1 expression in Lung cancer patients. Kaplan-Meier Plotter database was used to analyse the survival correlation between HIP1 mRNA expression in lung cancer patients. HIP1 depleted A549 cells were analysed for deregulated global proteome using label-free LC-MS and this data is available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD054307. Various functional assays such as matrigel based invasion, trans-well migration, soft agar colony and angiogenesis tube formation were performed after HIP1 depletion. NRF2 inhibitor was used after HIP1 knockdown to assess its effect on invasion and soft agar colony formation. RESULTS: In silico analysis of HIP1 transcript expression reveals that it is reduced in high-grade and metastatic lung cancer patients correlating with poor survival. Global proteome profiling reveals that HIP1 depleted A549 cells are enriched in pathways associated with metabolism, proliferation and survival. Molecular and functional analysis indicate higher invasive ability of HIP1 depleted cells. The secretome from HIP1 depleted cells also increases the angiogenic potential of HUVEC cells. NRF2 inhibition significantly reverses invasion of HIP1 depleted NSCLC cells with different driver mutations. CONCLUSION: Our study shows that HIP1 depletion leads to activation of various molecular pathways responsible for cell proliferation and survival. Additionally, enhancement of invasion and anchorage-independent growth in HIP1 depleted subsets of NSCLC cells is via upregulation of NRF2 and can be reversed by its inhibitor.
PXD051731	39303764	GpsB coordinates StkP signaling as a PASTA kinase adaptor in Streptococcus pneumoniae cell division. 	GpsB coordinates StkP signalling as a PASTA kinase adaptor in Streptococcus pneumoniae cell division	GpsB, Streptococcus pneumoniae, phosphorylation	StkP, the Ser/Thr protein kinase of the major human pathogen Streptococcus pneumoniae, monitors cell wall signals and regulates growth and division in response. In vivo, StkP interacts with GpsB, a cell division protein required for septal ring formation and closure, that affects StkP-dependent phosphorylation. Here, we report that although StkP has basal intrinsic kinase activity, GpsB promotes efficient autophosphorylation of StkP and phosphorylation of StkP substrates. Phosphoproteomic analyzes showed that GpsB is phosphorylated at several Ser and Thr residues. We confirmed that StkP directly phosphorylates GpsB in vitro and in vivo, with T79 and T83 being the major phosphorylation sites. In vitro, phosphoablative GpsB substitutions had a lower potential to stimulate StkP activity, whereas phosphomimetic substitutions were functional in terms of StkP activation. In vivo, substitutions of GpsB phosphoacceptor residues, either phosphoablative or mimetic, had a negative effect on GpsB function, resulting in reduced StkP-dependent phosphorylation and impaired cell division. The bacterial two-hybrid assay and co-immunoprecipitation of GpsB from cells with differentially active StkP indicated that increased phosphorylation of GpsB resulted in a more efficient interaction of GpsB with StkP. Our data suggest that GpsB acts as an adaptor that directly promotes StkP activity by mediating interactions within the StkP signaling hub, ensuring StkP recruitment into the complex and substrate specificity. We present a model that interaction of StkP with GpsB and its phosphorylation and dephosphorylation dynamically modulate kinase activity during exponential growth and under cell wall stress of S. pneumoniae, ensuring the proper functioning of the StkP signaling pathway.
PXD055320	39303916	ADAR promotes USP38 auto-deubiquitylation and stabilization in an RNA editing-independent manner in Esophageal Squamous Cell Carcinoma. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of USP38 interactors	USP38	Esophageal cancer is mainly divided into esophageal adenocarcinoma (EADC) and esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). China is one of the high-incidence areas of esophageal cancer, of which about 90% are ESCC. The deubiquitinase USP38 has been reported to play significant roles in several biological processes, including inflammatory responses, antiviral infection, cell proliferation, migration, invasion, DNA damage repair, and chemotherapy resistance. However, the role and mechanisms of USP38 in ESCC development remain still unclear. Furthermore, although many substrates of USP38 have been identified, few upstream regulatory factors of USP38 have been identified. In this study, we found that USP38 was significantly upregulated in esophageal cancer tissues. Knockdown of USP38 inhibited ESCC growth. USP38 stabilized itself through auto-deubiquitylation. In addition, we demonstrate that ADAR could enhance the stability of USP38 protein and facilitate USP38 auto-deubiquitylation by interacting with USP38 in an RNA editing-independent manner. ADAR inhibition of ESCC cell proliferation depended on USP38. In summary, these results highlight that the potential of targeting the ADAR-USP38 axis for ESCC treatment.
PXD051487	39305948	Linking Metabolism and Histone Acetylation Dynamics by Integrated Metabolic Flux Analysis of Acetyl-CoA and Histone Acetylation Sites. 	Linking acetyl-CoA labelling and histone acetylation dynamics for accurate determination of acetylation rates via ordinary differential equations	AcetylCoA, Acetylation, HEK93T, Histone, PTM	Histone acetylation is an important epigenetic modification that regulates various biological processes and cell homeostasis. Acetyl-CoA, a hub molecule of metabolism, is the substrate for histone acetylation, thus linking metabolism with epigenetic regulation. However, still relatively little is known about the dynamics of histone acetylation and its dependence on metabolic processes, due to the lack of integrated methods that can capture site-specific histone acetylation and deacetylation reactions together with the dynamics of acetyl-CoA synthesis. In this study, we present a novel proteo-metabo-flux approach that combines mass spectrometry-based metabolic flux analysis of acetyl-CoA and histone acetylation with computational modelling. We developed a mathematical model to describe metabolic label incorporation into acetyl-CoA and histone acetylation based on experimentally measured relative abundances. We demonstrate that our approach is able to determine acetyl-CoA synthesis dynamics and site-specific histone acetylation and deacetylation reaction rate constants, and that consideration of the metabolically labelled acetyl-CoA fraction is essential for accurate determination of histone acetylation dynamics. Furthermore, we show that without correction, changes in metabolic fluxes would be misinterpreted as changes in histone acetylation dynamics, whereas our proteo-metabo-flux approach allows to distinguish between the two processes.
PXD048727	39305961	Nucleolin Malonylation as a Nuclear-Cytosol Signal Exchange Mechanism to Drive Cell Proliferation in Hepatocarcinoma by Enhancing AKT Translation. 	Malonylation of Nucleolin Promotes Cell Proliferation in Hepatocarcinoma cells by enhancing AKT translation	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), malonylation cancer Hepatocellular	Cancer cells undergo metabolic reprogramming that is intricately linked to malignancy. Protein acylations are especially responsive to metabolic changes, influencing signal transduction pathways and fostering cell proliferation. However, as a novel type of acylations, the involvement of malonylation in cancer remains poorly understood. In this study, we observed a significant reduction in malonyl-CoA levels in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which correlated with a global decrease in malonylation. Subsequent nuclear malonylome analysis unveiled nucleolin (NCL) malonylation, which was notably enhanced in HCC biopsies. we demonstrated that NCL undergoes malonylation at lysine residues 124 and 398. This modification triggers the translocation of NCL from the nucleolus to nucleoplasm and cytoplasm, binding to AKT mRNA, and promoting AKT translation in HCC. Silencing AKT expression markedly attenuated HCC cell proliferation driven by NCL malonylation. These findings collectively highlight nuclear signaling in modulating AKT expression, suggesting NCL malonylation as a novel mechanism through which cancer cells drive cell proliferation.
PXD051418	39307306	Integrated multi-omics unveil the impact of H-phosphinic analogues of glutamate and alpha-ketoglutarate on Escherichia coli metabolism. 	Escherichia coli proteome analysis to decipher the molecular impact of phosphinic antimicrobials	antimicrobials, bacteria, metabolism, multi-omics, phosphinic compounds	Desmethylphosphinothricin (L-Glu-gamma-PH) is the H-phosphinic analogue of glutamate with carbon-phosphorus-hydrogen (C-P-H) bonds. In L-Glu-gamma-PH the phosphinic group acts as a bioisostere of glutamate gamma-carboxyl group allowing the molecule to be a substrate of Escherichia coli glutamate decarboxylase, a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent alpha-decarboxylase. In addition, the L-Glu-gamma-PH decarboxylation product, GABA-PH, is further metabolized by bacterial GABA-transaminase, another pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzyme, and succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase, a NADP(+)-dependent enzyme. The product of these consecutive reactions, the so-called GABA shunt, is succinate-PH, the H-phosphinic analogue of succinate, a tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediate. Notably, L-Glu-gamma-PH displays an antibacterial activity in the same concentration range of well-established antibiotics in E. coli. The dipeptide L-Leu-Glu-gamma-PH was shown to display an even higher efficacy, likely as a consequence of an improved penetration into the bacteria. Herein, with the aim of further understanding the intracellular effects of L-Glu-gamma-PH, (1)H NMR-based metabolomics and LC-MS-based shotgun proteomics were used. This study included also the keto-derivative of L-Glu-gamma-PH, alpha-ketoglutarate-gamma-PH (alpha-KG-gamma-PH), which also exhibits antimicrobial activity. L-Glu-gamma-PH and alpha-KG-gamma-PH are found to similarly impact the bacterial metabolism, though the overall effect of alpha-KG-gamma-PH is more pervasive. Notably alpha-KG-gamma-PH is converted intracellularly into L-Glu-gamma-PH, but the opposite was not found. In general, both molecules impact the pathways where aspartate, glutamate and glutamine are used as precursors for the biosynthesis of related metabolites, activate the acid stress response and deprive cells of nitrogen. This work highlights the multi-target drug potential of L-Glu-gamma-PH and alpha-KG-gamma-PH and paves the way for their exploitation as antimicrobials.
PXD052375	39313501	Female sex bias in Iberian megalithic societies through bioarchaeology, aDNA and proteomics. 	FEMALE SEX BIAS AND KINSHIP IN IBERIAN MEGALITHIC SOCIETIES: AN INTERDISCIPLINARY ANALYSIS OF BIOARCHAEOLOGY, aDNA, AND PROTEOMICS	Bioarchaeology, Iberian Peninsula, Megalithism, aDNA, sex bias	Uncertainties regarding traditional osteological methods in biological sex estimation can often be overcome with genomic and proteomic analyses. The combination of the three methodologies has been used for a better understanding of the gender-related funerary rituals at the Iberian megalithic cemetery of Panoria. As a result, 44 individuals have been sexed including, for the first time, non-adults. Contrary to the male bias found in many Iberian and European megalithic monuments, the Panoria population shows a clear sex ratio imbalance in favour of females, with twice as many females as males. Furthermore, this imbalance is found regardless of the criterion considered: sex ratio by tomb, chronological period, method of sex estimation, or age group. Biological relatedness was considered as possible sociocultural explanations for this female-related bias. However, the current results obtained for Panoria are indicative of a female-centred social structure potentially influencing rites and cultural traditions.
PXD050825	39313981	Sensitive Profiling of Mouse Liver Membrane Proteome Dysregulation Following a High-Fat and Alcohol Diet Treatment. 	Profiling the Liver Membrane Proteome in the Context of Liver Disease	Integral Membrane Proteins, Liver Fibrosis, Membrane Mimetics, NAFLD, Plasma Membrane, Surface Markers	Alcohol consumption and high-fat (HF) diets often coincide in Western society, resulting in synergistic negative effects on liver function. Although studies have analyzed the global protein expression in the context of alcoholic liver disease (ALD) and metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), none has offered specific insights on liver dysregulation at the membrane proteome level. Membrane-specific profiling of metabolic and compensatory phenomena is usually overshadowed in conventional proteomic workflows. In this study, we use the Peptidisc method to isolate and compare the membrane protein (MP) content of the liver with its unique biological functions. From mice fed with an HF diet and ethanol in drinking water, we annotate over 1500 liver proteins with half predicted to have at least one transmembrane segment. Among them, we identify 106 integral MPs that are dysregulated compared to the untreated sample. Gene Ontology analysis reveals several dysregulated membrane-associated processes like lipid metabolism, cell adhesion, xenobiotic processing, and mitochondrial membrane formation. Pathways related to cholesterol and bile acid transport are also mutually affected, suggesting an adaptive mechanism to counter the upcoming steatosis of the liver model. Taken together, our Peptidisc-based profiling of the diet-dysregulated liver provides specific insights and hypotheses into the role of the transmembrane proteome in disease development, and flags desirable MPs for therapeutic and diagnostic targeting.
PXD067354	39314317	Biomolecular condensation of ERC1 recruits ATG8 and NBR1 to drive autophagosome formation for plant heat tolerance. 	Proximity labeling - LC/MS-MS with ERC1-TurboID/atg7-2 Arabidopsis seedlings	ATG8, Autophagosome formation, Biomolecular condensation, ERC protein family, TurboID	Macroautophagy (hereafter autophagy) is essential for cells to respond to nutrient stress by delivering cytosolic contents to vacuoles for degradation via the formation of a multi-layer vesicle named autophagosome. A set of autophagy-related (ATG) regulators are recruited to the phagophore assembly site for the initiation of phagophore, as well as its expansion and closure and subsequent delivery into the vacuole. However, it remains elusive that how the phagophore assembly is regulated under different stress conditions. Here, we described an unknown Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) cytosolic ATG8-interaction protein family (ERC1/2), that binds ATG8 and NBR1 to promote autophagy. ERC1 proteins translocate to the phagophore membrane and develop into classical ring-like autophagosomes upon autophagic induction. However, ERC1 proteins form large droplets together with ATG8e proteins when in the absence of ATG8 lipidation activity. We described the property of these structures as phase-separated membraneless condensates by solving the in vivo organization with spatial and temporal resolution. Moreover, ERC1 condensates elicits a strong recruitment of the autophagic receptor NBR1. Loss of ERC1 suppressed NBR1 turnover and attenuated plant tolerance to heat stress condition. This work provides novel insights into the mechanical principle of phagophore initiation via an unreported ERC1-mediated biomolecular condensation for heat tolerance in Arabidopsis .
PXD055726	39314426	PathMHC: a workflow to selectively target pathogen-derived MHC peptides in discovery immunopeptidomics experiments for vaccine target identification. 	pathMHC: a workflow to selectively target pathogen-derived MHC peptides in discovery immunopeptidomics experiments for vaccine target identification	MHC, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, bacteria, immunopeptidomics, tuberculosis, vaccines	Vaccine-elicited T cell responses can contribute to immune protection against emerging infectious disease risks such as antimicrobials-resistant (AMR) microbial pathogens and viruses with pandemic potential, but rapidly identifying appropriate targets for T cell priming vaccines remains challenging. Mass spectrometry (MS) analysis of peptides presented on major histocompatibility complexes (MHCs) can identify potential targets for protective T cell responses in a proteome-wide manner. However, pathogen-derived peptides are outnumbered by self peptides in the MHC repertoire and may be missed in untargeted MS analyses. Here we present a novel approach, termed PathMHC, that uses computational analysis of untargeted MS data followed by targeted MS to discover novel pathogen-derived MHC peptides more efficiently than untargeted methods alone. We applied this workflow to identify MHC peptides derived from multiple microbes, including potential vaccine targets presented on MHC-I by human dendritic cells infected with Mycobacterium tuberculosis . PathMHC will facilitate antigen discovery campaigns for vaccine development.
PXD051517	39315433	Bone Morphogenetic Protein 9 Protects Against Myocardial Infarction by Improving Lymphatic Drainage Function and Triggering DECR1-Mediated Mitochondrial Bioenergetics. 	Bone Morphogenetic Protein 9 Protects against Myocardial Infarction by Improving Lymphatic Drainage Function and Triggering DECR1-Mediated Mitochondrial Bioenergetics	BMP9, DECR1, Lymphatic drainage dysfunction, Mitochondrial bioenergetics, Myocardial infarction	BACKGROUND: BMP9 (bone morphogenetic protein 9) is a member of the TGF-beta (transforming growth factor beta) family of cytokines with pleiotropic effects on glucose metabolism, fibrosis, and lymphatic development. However, the role of BMP9 in myocardial infarction (MI) remains elusive. METHODS: The expressional profiles of BMP9 in cardiac tissues and plasma samples of subjects with MI were determined by immunoassay or immunoblot. The role of BMP9 in MI was determined by evaluating the impact of BMP9 deficiency and replenishment with adeno-associated virus-mediated BMP9 expression or recombinant human BMP9 protein in mice. RESULTS: We show that circulating BMP9 and its cardiac levels are markedly increased in humans and mice with MI and are negatively associated with cardiac function. It is important to note that BMP9 deficiency exacerbates left ventricular dysfunction, increases infarct size, and augments cardiac fibrosis in mice with MI. In contrast, replenishment of BMP9 significantly attenuates these adverse effects. We further demonstrate that BMP9 improves lymphatic drainage function, thereby leading to a decrease of cardiac edema. In addition, BMP9 increases the expression of mitochondrial DECR1 (2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductase 1), a rate-limiting enzyme involved in beta-oxidation, which, in turn, promotes cardiac mitochondrial bioenergetics and mitigates MI-induced cardiomyocyte injury. Moreover, DECR1 deficiency exacerbates MI-induced cardiac damage in mice, whereas this adverse effect is restored by the treatment of adeno-associated virus-mediated DECR1. Consistently, DECR1 deletion abrogates the beneficial effect of BMP9 against MI-induced cardiomyopathy and cardiac damage in mice. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that BMP9 protects against MI by fine-tuning the multiorgan cross-talk among the liver, lymph, and the heart.
PXD048673	39315698	Chem-CRISPR/dCas9FCPF: a platform for chemically induced epigenome editing. 	Chem-CRISPR/dCas9FCPF  - A platform for chemically induced epigenome editing	CRISPR/dCas9, Epigenome editing, chemical epigenetic modulators, gene therapy	Epigenetic aberration is one of the major driving factors in human cancer, often leading to acquired resistance to chemotherapies. Various small molecule epigenetic modulators have been reported. Nonetheless, outcomes from animal models and clinical trials have underscored the substantial setbacks attributed to pronounced on- and off-target toxicities. To address these challenges, CRISPR/dCas9 technology is emerging as a potent tool for precise modulation of epigenetic mechanism. However, this technology involves co-expressing exogenous epigenetic modulator proteins, which presents technical challenges in preparation and delivery with potential undesirable side effects. Recently, our research demonstrated that Cas9 tagged with the Phe-Cys-Pro-Phe (FCPF)-peptide motif can be specifically targeted by perfluorobiphenyl (PFB) derivatives. Here, we integrated the FCPF-tag into dCas9 and established a chemically inducible platform for epigenome editing, called Chem-CRISPR/dCas9FCPF. We designed a series of chemical inhibitor-PFB conjugates targeting various epigenetic modulator proteins. Focusing on JQ1, a panBET inhibitor, we demonstrate that c-MYC-sgRNA-guided JQ1-PFB specifically inhibits BRD4 in close proximity to the c-MYC promoter/enhancer, thereby effectively repressing the intricate transcription networks orchestrated by c-MYC as compared with JQ1 alone. In conclusion, our Chem-CRISPR/dCas9FCPF platform significantly increased target specificity of chemical epigenetic inhibitors, offering a viable alternative to conventional fusion protein systems for epigenome editing.
PXD026464	39315773	Time-resolved proximity proteomics uncovers a membrane tension-sensitive caveolin-1 interactome at the rear of migrating cells. 	Spatially restricted proteomics reveals dynamic changes in the caveolin-1 interactome in response to increased membrane tension	APEX2, Caveolin-1, Interactome, Membrane Tension	Caveolae are small membrane pits with fundamental roles in mechanotransduction. Several studies have shown that caveolae flatten out in response to an increase in membrane tension, thereby acting as a mechanosensitive membrane reservoir that buffers acute mechanical stress. The dynamic assembly and disassembly of caveolae has also been implicated in the control of RhoA/ROCK-mediated actomyosin contractility at the rear of migrating cells. However, how membrane tension controls the organisation of caveolae and caveolae-mediated mechanotransduction is poorly understood. To address this, we systematically quantified protein-protein interactions of caveolin-1 in migrating RPE1 cells at steady state and in response to an acute increase in membrane tension using biotin-based proximity labelling and quantitative mass spectrometry. Our data show that caveolae are highly enriched at the rear of migrating RPE1 cells and that membrane tension rapidly and reversibly disassembles the caveolar protein coat. Membrane tension also dislodges caveolin-1 from focal adhesion proteins and several mechanosensitive cortical actin regulators including filamins and cortactin. In addition, we present evidence that ROCK and the RhoGAP ARHGAP29 are associated with caveolin-1 in a membrane tension-dependent manner, and that ARHGAP29 regulates caveolin-1 Y14 phosphorylation, caveolae rear localisation, and RPE1 cell migration. Taken together, our work uncovers a membrane tension-sensitive coupling between caveolae and the rear-localised F-actin cytoskeleton. This provides a framework for dissecting the molecular mechanisms underlying caveolae-regulated mechanotransduction pathways.
PXD048846	39316649	Disruption of cotranscriptional splicing suggests that RBM39 is a therapeutic target in acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 	Identification of RNA Pol II polymerase interactome in ALL cells	RNA polymerase II, acute lymphoblastic leukemia	There are few options for patients with relapse/refractory B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL), thus this is a major area of unmet medical need. Here, we reveal that inclusion of a poison exon in RBM39, which could be induced both by CDK9 or CDK9 independent CMGC (cyclin-dependent kinases, mitogen-activated protein kinases, glycogen synthase kinases, CDC-like kinases) kinase inhibition, is recognized by the nonsense-mediated mRNA decay (NMD) pathway for degradation. Targeting this poison exon in RBM39 with CMGC inhibitors lead to protein downregulation and inhibition of ALL growth, particularly in relapse/refractory B-ALL. Mechanistically, disruption of co-transcriptional splicing by inhibition of CMGC kinases including DYRK1A, or inhibition of CDK9, which phosphorylate the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II (Pol II), results in alteration of SF3B1 and Pol II association. Disruption of SF3B1 and transcriptional elongation complex alters Pol II pausing, which promotes the inclusion of a poison exon in RBM39. Moreover, RBM39 ablation suppresses the growth of human B-ALL, and targeting RBM39 with sulfonamides, which degrade RBM39 protein, showed strong anti-tumor activity in preclinical models. Our data reveal that relapse/refractory B-ALL is susceptible to pharmacologic and genetic inhibition of RBM39 and provide two potential strategies to target this axis.
PXD043846	39316663	ProNGF elicits retrograde axonal degeneration of basal forebrain neurons through p75(NTR) and induction of amyloid precursor protein. 	ProNGF elicits retrograde axonal degeneration of basal forebrain neurons via p75NTR and induction of APP	Key words: proneurotrophin, axon degeneration, axonal protein synthesis, p75NTR	Basal forebrain cholinergic neurons (BFCNs) extend long projections to multiple regions in the brain to regulate cognitive functions. Degeneration of BFCNs is seen with aging, after brain injury, and in neurodegenerative disorders. An increase in the amount of the immature proform of nerve growth factor (proNGF) in the cerebral cortex results in retrograde degeneration of BFCNs through activation of proNGF receptor p75(NTR). Here, we investigated the signaling cascades initiated at the axon terminal that mediate proNGF-induced retrograde degeneration. We found that local axonal protein synthesis and retrograde transport mediated proNGF-induced degeneration initiated from the axon terminal. Analysis of the nascent axonal proteome revealed that proNGF stimulation of axonal terminals triggered the synthesis of numerous proteins within the axon, and pathway analysis showed that amyloid precursor protein (APP) was a key upstream regulator in cultured BFCNs and in mice. Our findings reveal a functional role for APP in mediating BFCN axonal degeneration and cell death induced by proNGF.
PXD044501	39317727	Mettl1-dependent m(7)G tRNA modification is essential for maintaining spermatogenesis and fertility in Drosophila melanogaster. 	Analysis of Mettl1 interacting proteins in Drosophila	Drosophila, Mettl1, protein interaction	Modification of guanosine to N(7)-methylguanosine (m(7)G) in the variable loop region of tRNA is catalyzed by the METTL1/WDR4 heterodimer and stabilizes target tRNA. Here, we reveal essential functions of Mettl1 in Drosophila fertility. Knockout of Mettl1 (Mettl1-KO) causes no major effect on the development of non-gonadal tissues, but abolishes the production of elongated spermatids and mature sperm, which is fully rescued by expression of a Mettl1-transgene, but not a catalytic-dead Mettl1 transgene. This demonstrates that Mettl1-dependent m(7)G is required for spermatogenesis. Mettl1-KO results in a loss of m(7)G modification on a subset of tRNAs and decreased tRNA abundance. Ribosome profiling shows that Mettl1-KO led to ribosomes stalling at codons decoded by tRNAs that were reduced in abundance. Mettl1-KO also significantly reduces the translation efficiency of genes involved in elongated spermatid formation and sperm stability. Germ cell-specific expression of Mettl1 rescues disrupted m(7)G tRNA modification and tRNA abundance in Mettl1-KO testes but not in non-gonadal tissues. Ribosome stalling is much less detectable in non-gonadal tissues than in Mettl1-KO testes. These findings reveal a developmental role for m(7)G tRNA modification and indicate that m(7)G modification-dependent tRNA abundance differs among tissues.
PXD055002	39318062	Development of a Proteomic Workflow for the Identification of Heparan Sulphate Proteoglycan-Binding Substrates of ADAM17. 	Development of a proteomic workflow for the identification of heparan sulfate proteoglycan-binding substrates of ADAM17 -  Evaluation of heparin effects on sample preparation PreOmics	ADAM17, disintegrin metalloproteinases, ectodomain shedding, heparin, secretome, sheddome	Ectodomain shedding, which is the proteolytic release of transmembrane proteins from the cell surface, is crucial for cell-to-cell communication and other biological processes. The metalloproteinase ADAM17 mediates ectodomain shedding of over 50 transmembrane proteins ranging from cytokines and growth factors, such as TNF and EGFR ligands, to signalling receptors and adhesion molecules. Yet, the ADAM17 sheddome is only partly defined and biological functions of the protease have not been fully characterized. Some ADAM17 substrates (e.g., HB-EGF) are known to bind to heparan sulphate proteoglycans (HSPG), and we hypothesised that such substrates would be under-represented in traditional secretome analyses, due to their binding to cell surface or pericellular HSPGs. Thus, to identify novel HSPG-binding ADAM17 substrates, we developed a proteomic workflow that involves addition of heparin to solubilize HSPG-binding proteins from the cell layer, thereby allowing their mass spectrometry detection by heparin-treated secretome (HEP-SEC) analysis. Applying this methodology to murine embryonic fibroblasts stimulated with an ADAM17 activator enabled us to identify 47 transmembrane proteins that were shed in response to ADAM17 activation. This included known HSPG-binding ADAM17 substrates (i.e., HB-EGF, CX3CL1) and 14 novel HSPG-binding putative ADAM17 substrates. Two of these, MHC-I and IL1RL1, were validated as ADAM17 substrates by immunoblotting.
PXD052421	39319269	B3GNT5 is a novel marker correlated with malignant phenotype and poor outcome in pancreatic cancer. 	Identification of downstream proteins of B3GNT5	LC-MS Label-free quantitative proteomics	Pancreatic cancer (PC) is one of the most lethal malignancies and new therapeutic strategies are urgently needed. beta1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase V (B3GNT5) may be a potential option for cancer treatment, but its role in PC remains unknown. In this study, we first demonstrated through bioinformatics analysis that B3GNT5 was high expression in PC and predicted poor prognosis. We further constructed B3GNT5 overexpression or knockdown cell lines by employing lentivirus packaging techniques and confirmed that B3GNT5 could promote tumor cell viability and autonomous growth using cultured cells and vivo xenograft models. In addition, we found that knockdown of B3GNT5 in PC cells inhibited cell migration, invasion, and angiogenesis, as well as stemness of cancer stem cells and enhanced chemotherapy sensitivity to gemcitabine. Mechanistically, overexpression of the transcription factor STAT5B in PC cells enhanced the transcriptional activity of the B3GNT5 promoter. Our work confirmed a tumor-promotive role of B3GNT5 in PC pathogenesis.
PXD049187	39319326	Death-associated protein kinase 3 modulates migration and invasion of triple-negative breast cancer cells. 	DAPK3 modulates migration and invasion of triple negative breast cancers	Breast Cancer, Cancer, DAPK3, EMT, LUZP1, PDX	Sixteen patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) were analyzed using a mass spectrometry (MS)-based kinase inhibitor pull-down assay (KIPA), leading to the observation that death-associated protein kinase 3 (DAPK3) is significantly and specifically overexpressed in the triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) models. Validation studies confirmed enrichment of DAPK3 protein, in both TNBC cell lines and tumors, independent of mRNA levels. Genomic knockout of DAPK3 in TNBC cell lines inhibited in vitro migration and invasion, along with down-regulation of an epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) signature, which was confirmed in vivo. The kinase and leucine-zipper domains within DAPK3 were shown by a mutational analysis to be essential for functionality. Notably, DAPK3 was found to inhibit the levels of desmoplakin (DSP), a crucial component of the desmosome complex, thereby explaining the observed migration and invasion effects. Further exploration with immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS) identified that leucine-zipper protein 1 (LUZP1) is a preferential binding partner of DAPK3. LUZP1 engages in a leucine-zipper domain-mediated interaction that protects DAPK3 from proteasomal degradation. Thus, the DAPK3/LUZP1 heterodimer emerges as a newly discovered regulator of EMT/desmosome components that promote TNBC cell migration.
PXD051136	39320956	Optimised proteomic analysis of insulin granules from MIN6 cells identifies Scamp3, a novel regulator of insulin secretion and content. 	SCAMP3 is a component of insulin granules in MIN6 beta-cells and regulates insulin secretion and content	SCAMP3, beta cell, insulin, islet, pancreas	Pancreatic beta-cells in the Islets of Langerhans are key to maintaining glucose homeostasis, by secreting the peptide hormone insulin. Insulin is packaged within vesicles named insulin secretory granules (ISGs), that have recently been considered to have intrinsic structures and proteins that regulate insulin granule maturation, trafficking, and secretion. Previously, studies have identified a handful of novel ISG-associated proteins using different separation techniques. Here, this study combines an optimized ISG isolation technique and mass spectrometry-based proteomics, with an unbiased protein correlation profiling and targeted machine learning approach to uncover 211 ISG-associated proteins with confidence. Four of these proteins: Syntaxin-7, Synaptophysin, Synaptotagmin-13 and Scamp3 have not been previously ISG-associated. Through colocalization analysis of confocal imaging we validate the association of these proteins to the ISG in MIN6 and human beta-cells. We further validate the role for one (Scamp3) in regulating insulin content and secretion from beta-cells for the first time. Scamp3 knock-down INS-1 cells show a reduction in insulin content and dysfunctional insulin secretion. These data provide the basis for future investigation of Scamp3 in beta-cell biology and the regulation of insulin secretion.
PXD044328	39321804	Structural basis of the human transcriptional Mediator regulated by its dissociable kinase module. 	Structural basis of the human transcriptional Mediator complex modulated by its dissociable Kinase module	CDK8, Mediator, transcription	The eukaryotic transcriptional Mediator comprises a large core (cMED) and a dissociable CDK8 kinase module (CKM). cMED recruits RNA polymerase II (RNA Pol II) and promotes pre-initiation complex formation in a manner repressed by the CKM through mechanisms presently unknown. Herein, we report cryoelectron microscopy structures of the complete human Mediator and its CKM. The CKM binds to multiple regions on cMED through both MED12 and MED13, including a large intrinsically disordered region (IDR) in the latter. MED12 and MED13 together anchor the CKM to the cMED hook, positioning CDK8 downstream and proximal to the transcription start site. Notably, the MED13 IDR obstructs the recruitment of RNA Pol II/MED26 onto cMED by direct occlusion of their respective binding sites, leading to functional repression of cMED-dependent transcription. Combined with biochemical and functional analyses, these structures provide a conserved mechanistic framework to explain the basis for CKM-mediated repression of cMED function.
PXD047493	39321805	Hydrogen sulfide-mediated persulfidation regulates homocysteine metabolism and enhances ferroptosis in non-small cell lung cancer. 	Hydrogen sulfide mediated persulfidation regulates homocysteine metabolism and enhances ferroptosis in non-small-cell lung cancer	Ferroptosis, Hydrogen sulfide (H2S), Persulfidation, S-adenosyl homocysteine hydrolase (SAHH), Transsulfuration pathway	Hydrogen sulfide (H2S), a metabolite of the transsulfuration pathway, has been implicated in ferroptosis, a unique form of cell death caused by lipid peroxidation. While the exact mechanisms controlling ferroptosis remain unclear, our study reveals that H2S sensitizes human non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cells to this process, particularly when cysteine levels are low. Combining H2S with cystine depletion significantly enhances the effectiveness of ferroptosis-based cancer therapy. Mechanistically, H2S persulfidates the 195(th) cysteine on S-adenosyl homocysteine hydrolase (SAHH), reducing its enzymatic activity. This leads to decreased homocysteine levels, subsequently lowering cysteine and glutathione concentrations under cystine depletion conditions. These changes ultimately increase the vulnerability of NSCLC cells to ferroptosis. Our findings establish H2S as a key regulator of homocysteine metabolism and a critical factor in determining NSCLC cell susceptibility to ferroptosis. These results highlight the potential of H2S-based therapies to improve the efficacy of ferroptosis-targeted cancer treatments for NSCLC.
PXD053739	39321873	Comprehensive proteomic analysis reveals distinct features and a diagnostic biomarker panel for early pregnancy loss in histological subtypes. 	Comprehensive proteomic analysis reveals distinct features and diagnostic biomarker panel for early pregnancy loss in histological subtypes	Biomarkers, Early pregnancy loss, Hydatidiform mole, Precious diagnosis	Early pregnancy loss (EPL) is a common event in human reproduction and is classified into histological subtypes such as hydropic abortion (HA) and hydatidiform moles (HMs), including complete hydatidiform moles (CHMs) and partial hydatidiform moles (PHMs). However, accurate diagnosis and improved patient management remain challenging due to high rates of misdiagnosis and diverse prognostic risks. Therefore, diagnostic biomarkers for EPL are urgently needed. Our study aimed to identify biomarkers for EPL through comprehensive proteomic analysis. Ten CHMs, six PHMs, ten HAs and ten normal control (NC) products of conception (POC) were used to obtain a proteomic portrait. Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM)-targeted proteomic and regression analyses were used to verify and select the diagnostic signatures. Finally, 14 proteins were selected and a panel of diagnostic classifiers (DLK1, SPTB/COL21A1, and SAR1A) was built to represent the CHM, PHM, and NC groups (auROC=0.900, 0.804/0.885, and 0.991, respectively). This high diagnostic power was further validated in another independent cohort (n = 148) by immunohistochemistry (IHC) (n = 120) and western blot (WB) analyses (n = 28). The protein SPTB was selected for further biological behaviour experiments in vitro. Our data suggest that SPTB maintains trophoblast cell proliferation, angiogenesis, cell motility and the cytoskeleton network. This study provides a comprehensive proteomic portrait and identifies potential diagnostic biomarkers. These findings enhance our understanding of EPL pathogenesis and offer novel targets for diagnosis and therapeutic interventions.
PXD040517	39321874	Light changes promote distinct responses of plastid protein acetylation marks. 	Fast light changes promote distinct responses of plastid protein acetylation marks 	PTM, acetylation, light acclimation	Protein acetylation is a key co- and post-translational modification. However, how different types of acetylation respond to environmental stress is still unknown. To address this, we investigated the role of a member of the newly discovered family of plastid acetyltransferases (GNAT2), which features both lysine- and N-terminal acetyltransferase activities. Our study aimed to provide a holistic multi-omics acetylation-dependent view of plant acclimation to short-term light changes. We found that both the yield and coverage of the N-terminal acetylome remained unchanged in wild-type and gnat2-knockout backgrounds after two hours of exposure to high light or darkness. Similarly, no differences in transcriptome or adenylate energy charge were observed between the genotypes under the tested light conditions. In contrast, the lysine acetylome proved to be sensitive to the changes in light conditions, especially in the gnat2 background. This suggests unique strategies of plant acclimation for quick responses to environmental changes involving lysine, but not N-terminal, GNAT2-mediated acetylation activity.
PXD054189	39322219	Theoretical Assessment of Indistinguishable Peptides in Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics. 	Theoretical assessment of indistinguishable peptides in mass spectrometry-based proteomics	DIA, Hela	Mass-spectrometry-based proteomics has advanced with the integration of experimental and predicted spectral libraries, which have significantly improved peptide identification in complex search spaces. However, challenges persist in distinguishing some peptides with close retention times and nearly identical fragmentation patterns. In this study, we conducted a theoretical assessment to quantify the prevalence of indistinguishable peptides within the human canonical proteome and immunopeptidome using state-of-the-art retention time and spectrum prediction models. By quantifying the proportion of peptides posing challenges to unequivocal identification, we set the theoretical nonaccessible portion within a given proteome, and underscore the effectiveness of contemporary analytical methodologies in resolving the complexity of the human proteome and immunopeptidome via mass spectrometry.
PXD052789	39323000	Uracil phosphoribosyltransferase is required to establish a functional cytochrome b6f complex. 	Uracil phosphoribosyltransferase is required to establish a functional cytochrome b6/f complex	Chloroplast, Uracil phosphoribosyltransferase, high light, protease	Arabidopsis uracil phosphoribosyltransferase (UPP) is an essential enzyme and plants lacking this enzyme are strongly compromised in chloroplast function. Our analysis of UPP amiRNA mutants has confirmed that this vital function is crucial to establish a fully functional photosynthesis as the RIESKE iron sulfur protein (PetC) is almost absent, leading to a block in photosynthetic electron transport. Interestingly, this function appears to be unrelated to nucleotide homeostasis since nucleotide levels were not altered in the studied mutants. Transcriptomics and proteomic analysis showed that protein homeostasis but not gene expression is most likely responsible for this observation and high light provoked an upregulation of protease levels, including thylakoid filamentation temperature-sensitive 1, 5 (FtsH), caseinolytic protease proteolytic subunit 1 (ClpP1), and processing peptidases, as well as components of the chloroplast protein import machinery in UPP amiRNA lines. Strongly reduced PetC amounts were not only detected by immunoblot from mature plants but in addition in a de-etiolation experiment with young seedlings and are causing reduced high light-induced non-photochemical quenching Phi(NPQ) but increased unregulated energy dissipation Phi(NO). This impaired photosynthesis results in an inability to induce flavonoid biosynthesis. In addition, the levels of the osmoprotectants raffinose, proline, and fumarate were found to be reduced. In sum, our work suggests that UPP assists in stabilization PetC during import, processing or targeting to the thylakoid membrane, or protects it against proteolytic degradation.
PXD045469	39323462	Proteomic exploration of potential blood biomarkers in haemophilic arthropathy. 	Proteomic profiling of plasma in patients with osteoarthritis and hemophilic arthropathy	disease biomarkers, haemophilia, haemophilic arthropathy	Background and Aims: The pathophysiology of haemophilic arthropathy (HA) is complex and largely undefined. Proteomic analyses provide insights into the intricate mechanisms of the HA.Our study aimed to identify differentially expressed proteins in relation to the severity of HA, explore their pathophysiological roles, and evaluate their potential as HA biomarkers. Methods: Our cross-sectional observational study encompassed 30 HA patients and 15 healthy subjects. Plasma samples were pooled into three groups of 15 samples from those with severe haemophilic arthropathy (sHA), mild haemophilic arthropathy (mHA) and healthy controls. Proteomic analysis was performed using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The severity of HA was assessed using the World Federation of Haemophilia Physical Examination Score and ultrasonography following the Haemophilia Early Arthropathy Detection with Ultrasound (HEAD-US) guidelines. Results: A total of 788 proteins were identified, with 97% of the uniquely identified proteins being expressed in all analysed groups. We identified several up and downregulated proteins across the groups that were mainly related to inflammatory and immunity-modulating processes, as well as joint degeneration. We highlighted ten proteins relevant for the development of HA: cathepsin G, endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 2, S100-A9, insulin-like growth factor I, apolipoprotein (a), osteopontin, pregnancy zone protein, cartilage oligomeric matrix protein, CD44, and cadherin-related family member 2. Conclusion: Our analysis identified several proteins that shed further light on the distinctive pathogenesis of HA and could serve for biomarker research. However, these results need to be validated on a larger patient group.
PXD049326	39324540	Automated High-Throughput Biological Sex Identification from Archeological Human Dental Enamel Using Targeted Proteomics. 	Automated high-throughput biological sex identification from archaeological human dental enamel using targeted proteomics	Archaeology, Enamel, Forensics, PRM, Palaeoproteomics, Sex	Biological sex is key information for archeological and forensic studies, which can be determined by proteomics. However, the lack of a standardized approach for fast and accurate sex identification currently limits the reach of proteomics applications. Here, we introduce a streamlined mass spectrometry (MS)-based workflow for the determination of biological sex using human dental enamel. Our approach builds on a minimally invasive sampling strategy by acid etching, a rapid online liquid chromatography (LC) gradient coupled to a high-resolution parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) assay allowing for a throughput of 200 samples per day (SPD) with high quantitative performance enabling confident identification of both males and females. Additionally, we developed a streamlined data analysis pipeline and integrated it into a Shiny interface for ease of use. The method was first developed and optimized using modern teeth and then validated in an independent set of deciduous teeth of known sex. Finally, the assay was successfully applied to archeological material, enabling the analysis of over 300 individuals. We demonstrate unprecedented performance and scalability, speeding up MS analysis by 10-fold compared to conventional proteomics-based sex identification methods. This work paves the way for large-scale archeological or forensic studies enabling the investigation of entire populations rather than focusing on individual high-profile specimens. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD049326.
PXD053367	39327902	Pilot Study for Deciphering Post-Translational Modifications and Proteoforms of Tau Protein by Capillary Electrophoresis-Mass Spectrometry. 	A pilot study for deciphering post-translational modifications and proteoforms of tau protein by capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry	Alzheimer's disease, Tau protein, capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry, phosphorylation, post-translational modification, proteoform	Abnormal accumulation of tau protein in the brain is one pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Many tau protein post-translational modifications (PTMs) are associated with the development of AD, such as phosphorylation, acetylation, and methylation. Therefore, a complete picture of the PTM landscape of tau is critical for understanding the molecular mechanisms of AD progression. Here, we offered a pilot study of combining two complementary analytical techniques, capillary zone electrophoresis (CZE)-tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS) and reversed-phase liquid chromatography (RPLC)-MS/MS, for bottom-up proteomics of recombinant human tau-0N3R. We identified 50 phosphorylation sites of tau-0N3R in total, which is about 25% higher than that from RPLC-MS/MS alone. CZE-MS/MS provided more PTM sites (i.e., phosphorylation) and modified peptides of tau-0N3R than RPLC-MS/MS, and its predicted electrophoretic mobility helped improve the confidence of the identified modified peptides. We developed a highly efficient capillary isoelectric focusing (cIEF)-MS technique to offer a bird's-eye view of tau-0N3R proteoforms, with 11 putative tau-0N3R proteoforms carrying up to nine phosphorylation sites and lower pI values from more phosphorylated proteoforms detected. Interestingly, under native-like cIEF-MS conditions, we observed three putative tau-0N3R dimers carrying phosphate groups. The findings demonstrate that CE-MS is a valuable analytical technique for the characterization of tau PTMs, proteoforms, and even oligomerization.
PXD052771	39329462	Integrin alpha6-containing extracellular vesicles promote lymphatic remodelling for pre-metastatic niche formation in lymph nodes via interplay with CD151. 	Bladder cancer tissue-derived exosomes LC-MSMS	Bladder cancer, tissue-derived exosomes	Heterogeneous extracellular vesicles (EVs) from various types of tumours are acknowledged for inducing the formation of pre-metastatic "niches" in draining lymph nodes (LNs) to promote lymphatic metastasis. In order to identify the specific subpopulations of EVs involved, we performed high-resolution proteomic analysis combined with nanoflow cytometry of bladder cancer (BCa) tissue-derived EVs to identify a novel subset of tumour-derived EVs that contain integrin alpha6 (ITGA6(+)EVs) and revealed the positive correlation of ITGA6(+)EVs with the formation of pre-metastatic niche in draining LNs and lymphatic metastasis in multicentre clinical analysis of 820-case BCa patients. BCa-derived ITGA6(+)EVs induced E-selectin (SELE)-marked lymphatic remodelling pre-metastatic niche and promoted metastasis in draining LNs through delivering cargo circRNA-LIPAR to lymphatic endothelial cells in vivo and in vitro. Mechanistically, LIPAR linked ITGA6 to the switch II domain of RAB5A and sustained RAB5A GTP-bound activated state, thus maintaining the production of ITGA6(+)EVs loaded with LIPAR through endosomal trafficking. ITGA6(+)EVs targeted lymphatic vessels through ITGA6-CD151 interplay and released LIPAR to induce SELE overexpression-marked lymphatic remodelling pre-metastatic niche. Importantly, we constructed engineered-ITGA6 EVs to inhibit lymphatic pre-metastatic niche, which suppressed lymphatic metastasis and prolonged survival in preclinical models. Collectively, our study uncovers the mechanism of BCa-derived ITGA6(+)EVs mediating pre-metastatic niche and provides an engineered-EV-based strategy against BCa lymphatic metastasis.
PXD042162	39331689	Loss-of-function variant in TDRD6 cause male infertility with severe oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia in human and mice. 	TDRD6 IP-MS data in mouse testis protein lysates	Immunoprecipitation, Spermiogenesis, TDRD6	Oligo-astheno-teratozoospermia (OAT) is a common cause of male infertility, but the genetic basis of most OAT cases is still unknown. Here, one homozygous loss-of-function (LOF) variant in TDRD6, c.G1825T/p.Gly609X, was identified in an infertile patient with severe OAT by whole-exome sequencing (WES) and Sanger confirmation. Furthermore, Tdrd6-mutant mice (p.Gly615X; equivalent to p.Gly609X in human TDRD6) were generated. Remarkably, the Tdrd6-mutated mice mimicked the severe OAT symptoms of the patient. In addition, the architecture of chromatoid bodies (CBs) were disrupted in round spermatids from Tdrd6-mutant mice, leading to blocked spermatogenesis in the round spermatids. The assembly of PIWIL1, TDRD1, TDRD7 and DDX25 in CBs was disturbed in the Tdrd6-mutant mice. Applying immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS), we identified some TDRD6-interacting partners, including CB proteins TDRD7, MAEL and PCBP1. Moreover, we described the assisted reproductive technology (ART) outcomes of the infertile patient and his partner. Altogether, our findings provide necessary evidences to support the idea that the homozygous LOF variant in TDRD6 induces male infertility with severe OAT, suggesting that TDRD6 could be a useful genetic diagnostic target for male infertility.
PXD044813	39331704	Cold-induced degradation of core clock proteins implements temperature compensation in the Arabidopsis circadian clock. 	TOC1 and PRR5 as regulators of temperature compensation in the Arabidopsis circadian clock (12C vs 28C)	PRR5, TOC1, circadian clock, temperature	The period of circadian clocks is maintained at close to 24 hours over a broad range of physiological temperatures due to temperature compensation of period length. Here, we show that the quantitative control of the core clock proteins TIMING OF CAB EXPRESSION 1 [TOC1; also known as PSEUDO-RESPONSE REGULATOR 1 (PRR1)] and PRR5 is crucial for temperature compensation in Arabidopsis thaliana. The prr5 toc1 double mutant has a shortened period at higher temperatures, resulting in weak temperature compensation. Low ambient temperature reduces amounts of PRR5 and TOC1. In low-temperature conditions, PRR5 and TOC1 interact with LOV KELCH PROTEIN 2 (LKP2), a component of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Skp, Cullin, F-box (SCF) complex. The lkp2 mutations attenuate low temperature-induced decrease of PRR5 and TOC1, and the mutants display longer period only at lower temperatures. Our findings reveal that the circadian clock maintains its period length despite ambient temperature fluctuations through temperature- and LKP2-dependent control of PRR5 and TOC1 abundance.
PXD048354	39332236	In artemisinin-resistant falciparum malaria parasites, mitochondrial metabolic pathways are essential for survival but not those of apicoplast. 	Metabolisme of artemisinin-resistant falciparum malaria parasites: are apicoplast and mitochondrion pathways key targets?	apicoplast, artemisinin resistance, metabolism, mitochondrion, quiescence	Emergence and spread of parasite resistance to artemisinins, the first-line antimalarial therapy, threaten the malaria eradication policy. To identify therapeutic targets to eliminate artemisinin-resistant parasites, the functioning of the apicoplast and the mitochondrion was studied, focusing on the fatty acid synthesis type II (FASII) pathway in the apicoplast and the electron transfer chain in the mitochondrion. A significant enrichment of the FASII pathway among the up-regulated genes in artemisinin-resistant parasites under dihydroartemisinin treatment was found, in agreement with published transcriptomic data. However, using GC-MS analyzes of fatty acids, we demonstrated for the first time that the FASII pathway is non-functional, ruling out the use of FASII inhibitors to target artemisinin-resistant parasites. Conversely, by assessing the modulation of the oxygen consumption rate, we evidenced that mitochondrial respiration remains functional and flexible in artemisinin-resistant parasites and even at the quiescent stage. Two novel compounds targeting electron transport chain (ELQ300, ELQ400) efficiently killed quiescent artemisinin-resistant parasites. Therefore, mitochondrial respiration represents a key target for the elimination of artemisinin-resistant persistent Plasmodium falciparum parasites.
PXD049346	39332405	Functionally redundant roles of ID family proteins in spermatogonial stem cells. 	Identification of ID4-interacting proteins in cultured undifferentiated spermatogonia	ID family proteins, Spermatogonial stem cells, male fertility, transcription factors	Spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs) are essential for sustained sperm production, but SSC regulatory mechanisms and markers remain poorly defined. Studies have suggested that the Id family transcriptional regulator Id4 is expressed in SSCs and involved in SSC maintenance. Here, we used reporter and knockout models to define the expression and function of Id4 in the adult male germline. Within the spermatogonial pool, Id4 reporter expression and inhibitor of DNA-binding 4 (ID4) protein are found throughout the GFRalpha1+ fraction, comprising the self-renewing population. However, Id4 deletion is tolerated by adult SSCs while revealing roles in meiotic spermatocytes. Cultures of undifferentiated spermatogonia could be established following Id4 deletion. Importantly, ID4 loss in undifferentiated spermatogonia triggers ID3 upregulation, and both ID proteins associate with transcription factor partner TCF3 in wild-type cells. Combined inhibition of IDs in cultured spermatogonia disrupts the stem cell state and blocks proliferation. Our data therefore demonstrate critical but functionally redundant roles of IDs in SSC function.
PXD053550	39333076	Proteogenomic characterization of skull-base chordoma. 	Proteogenomic Characterization of Skull-base Chordoma	SBC	Skull-base chordoma is a rare, aggressive bone cancer with a high recurrence rate. Despite advances in genomic studies, its molecular characteristics and effective therapies remain unknown. Here, we conduct integrative genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and phosphoproteomics analyses of 187 skull-base chordoma tumors. In our study, chromosome instability is identified as a prognostic predictor and potential therapeutic target. Multi-omics data reveals downstream effects of chromosome instability, with RPRD1B as a putative target for radiotherapy-resistant patients. Chromosome 1q gain, associated with chromosome instability and upregulated mitochondrial functions, lead to poorer clinical outcomes. Immune subtyping identify an immune cold subtype linked to chromosome 9p/10q loss and immune evasion. Proteomics-based classification reveals subtypes (P-II and P-III) with high chromosome instability and immune cold features, with P-II tumors showing increased invasiveness. These findings, confirmed in 17 paired samples, provide insights into the biology and treatment of skull-base chordoma.
PXD055797	39333081	Metabolic regulation of cytoskeleton functions by HDAC6-catalyzed alpha-tubulin lactylation. 	Metabolic regulation of cytoskeleton functions by HDAC6-catalyzed alpha-tubulin lactylation	HDAC6, cytoskeleton, lactylation, alpha-tubulin	Posttranslational modifications (PTMs) of tubulin, termed the "tubulin code", play important roles in regulating microtubule functions within subcellular compartments for specialized cellular activities. While numerous tubulin PTMs have been identified, a comprehensive understanding of the complete repertoire is still underway. In this study, we report that alpha-tubulin lactylation is catalyzed by HDAC6 by using lactate to increase microtubule dynamics in neurons. We identify lactylation on lysine 40 of alpha-tubulin in the soluble tubulin dimers. Notably, lactylated alpha-tubulin enhances microtubule dynamics and facilitates neurite outgrowth and branching in cultured hippocampal neurons. Moreover, we discover an unexpected function of HDAC6, acting as the primary lactyltransferase to catalyze alpha-tubulin lactylation. HDAC6-catalyzed lactylation is a reversible process, dependent on lactate concentrations. Intracellular lactate concentration triggers HDAC6 to lactylate alpha-tubulin, a process dependent on its deacetylase activity. Additionally, the lactyltransferase activity may be conserved in HDAC family proteins. Our study reveals the primary role of HDAC6 in regulating alpha-tubulin lactylation, establishing a link between cell metabolism and cytoskeleton functions.
PXD044475	39333092	Selective regulation of macrophage lipid metabolism via nanomaterials' surface chemistry. 	Selective Regulation of Macrophage Lipid Metabolism via Nanomaterials' Surface Chemistry	Graphene oxide, Human plasma, LC-MS, Lipid metabolism, Low density lipoprotein, Surface hydrophilicity	Understanding the interface between nanomaterials and lipoproteins is crucial for gaining insights into their impact on lipoprotein structure and lipid metabolism. Here, we use graphene oxide (GOs) nanosheets as a controlled carbon nanomaterial model to study how surface properties influence lipoprotein corona formation and show that GOs have strong binding affinity with low-density lipoprotein (LDL). We use advanced techniques including X-ray reflectivity, circular dichroism, and molecular simulations to explore the interfacial interactions between GOs and LDL. Specifically, hydrophobic GOs preferentially associate with LDL's lipid components, whereas hydrophilic GOs tend to bind with apolipoproteins. Furthermore, these GOs distinctly modulate a variety of lipid metabolism pathways, including LDL recognition, uptake, hydrolysis, efflux, and lipid droplet formation. This study underscores the importance of structure analysis at the nano-biomolecule interface, emphasizing how nanomaterials' surface properties critically influence cellular lipid metabolism. These insights will inspire the design and application of future biocompatible nanomaterials and nanomedicines.
PXD052827	39333556	Lipid droplets sequester palmitic acid to disrupt endothelial ciliation and exacerbate atherosclerosis in male mice. 	HUVEC Palmitoylation modification analysis	HUVEC, LC-MS, palmitoylation	Disruption of ciliary homeostasis in vascular endothelial cells has been implicated in the development of atherosclerosis. However, the molecular basis for the regulation of endothelial cilia during atherosclerosis remains poorly understood. Herein, we provide evidence in male mice that the accumulation of lipid droplets in vascular endothelial cells induces ciliary loss and contributes to atherosclerosis. Triglyceride accumulation in vascular endothelial cells differentially affects the abundance of free fatty acid species in the cytosol, leading to stimulated lipid droplet formation and suppressed protein S-palmitoylation. Reduced S-palmitoylation of ciliary proteins, including ADP ribosylation factor like GTPase 13B, results in the loss of cilia. Restoring palmitic acid availability, either through pharmacological inhibition of stearoyl-CoA desaturase 1 or a palmitic acid-enriched diet, significantly restores endothelial cilia and mitigates the progression of atherosclerosis. These findings thus uncover a previously unrecognized role of lipid droplets in regulating ciliary homeostasis and provide a feasible intervention strategy for preventing and treating atherosclerosis.
PXD051586	39334258	Cytokine priming enhances the antifibrotic effects of human adipose derived mesenchymal stromal cells conditioned medium. 	Cytokine Priming Enhances the Antifibrotic Effects of Mesenchymal Stromal Cells Conditioned Medium Via Fibrogenic Myofibroblasts Elimination and Extracellular Matrix Degradation.	MSC, conditioned medium, extracellular matrix, fibrosis, multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells, myofibroblasts	BACKGROUND: Fibrosis is a pathological scarring process characterized by persistent myofibroblast activation with excessive accumulation of extracellular matrix (ECM). Fibrotic disorders represent an increasing burden of disease-associated morbidity and mortality worldwide for which there are limited therapeutic options. Reversing fibrosis requires the elimination of myofibroblasts, remodeling of the ECM, and regeneration of functional tissue. Multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells (MSC) have antifibrotic properties mediated by secreted factors present in their conditioned medium (MSC-CM). However, there are no standardized in vitro assays to predict the antifibrotic effects of human MSC. As a result, we lack evidence on the effect of cytokine priming on MSC's antifibrotic effects. We hypothesize that the MSC-CM promotes fibrosis resolution in vitro and that this effect is enhanced following MSC cytokine priming. METHODS: We compared the antifibrotic effects of resting versus interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) primed MSC-CM in four in vitro assays: prevention of fibroblast activation, myofibroblasts deactivation, ECM degradation and fibrosis resolution in lung explant cultures. Furthermore, we performed transcriptomic analysis of myofibroblasts treated or not with resting or primed MSC-CM and proteomic characterization of resting and primed MSC-CM. RESULTS: We isolated MSC from adipose tissue of 8 donors, generated MSC-CM and tested each MSC-CM independently. We report that MSC-CM treatment prevented TGF-beta induced fibroblast activation to a similar extent as nintedanib but, in contrast to nintedanib, MSC-CM reduced fibrogenic myofibroblasts (i.e. transcriptomic upregulation of apoptosis, senescence, and inflammatory pathways). These effects were larger when primed rather than resting MSC-CM were used. Priming increased the ability of MSC-CM to remodel the ECM, reducing its content of collagen I and fibronectin, and reduced the fibrotic load in TGF-beta treated lung explant cultures. Priming increased the following antifibrotic proteins in MSC-CM: DKK1, MMP-1, MMP-3, follistatin and cathepsin S. Inhibition of DKK1 reduced the antifibrotic effects of MSC-CM. CONCLUSIONS: In vitro, MSC-CM promote fibrosis resolution, an effect enhanced following MSC cytokine priming. Specifically, MSC-CM reduces fibrogenic myofibroblasts through apoptosis, senescence, and by enhancing ECM degradation. Future studies will establish the in vivo relevance of MSC priming to fibrosis resolution.
PXD054168	39335272	Proteomics and Microbiota Conjoint Analysis in the Nasal Mucus: Revelation of Differences in Immunological Function in Manis javanica and Manis pentadactyla. 	Proteomics and microbiotas conjoint analysis in the nasal mucus: revelation of differences in immunological function in Manis javanica and Manis pentadactyla	LC-MS, nasal mucus, pangolin	All eight pangolin species, especially captive Manis pentadactyla, are critically endangered and susceptible to various pathogenic microorganisms, causing mass mortality. They are involved in the complement system, iron transport system, and inflammatory factors. M. pentadactyla exhibited a higher abundance of opportunistic pathogens, Moraxella, which potentially evaded complement-mediated immune response by reducing C5 levels and counteracting detrimental effects through transferrin neutralization. In addition, we found that the major structure of C5a, an important inflammatory factor, was lacking in M. javanica. In brief, this study revealed the differences in immune factors and microbiome between M. javanica and M. pentadactyla, thus providing a theoretical basis for subsequent immunotherapy.
PXD043483	39335340	Combining Transcriptomics and Proteomics to Screen Candidate Genes Related to Bovine Birth Weight. 	Proteomics Profiles of the placenta Reveal the fetal calf growth-Related Candidate Biomarkers of Shandong black cattle	Cattle, DIA, placenta	The placenta is a vital organ in bovine reproduction, crucial for blood supply, nutrient transport, and embryonic development. It plays an essential role in the intrauterine growth of calves. However, the molecular mechanisms governing placental function in calves remain inadequately understood. METHODS: We established transcriptome and proteome databases for low-birth-weight (LB) and high-birth-weight (HB) calf placentae, identifying key genes and proteins associated with birth weight through bioinformatics analyses that included functional enrichment and protein-protein interactions (PPIs). Both mRNA and protein levels were validated. RESULTS: A total of 1494 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 294 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified when comparing the LB group to the HB group. Furthermore, we identified 53 genes and proteins exhibiting significant co-expression across both transcriptomic and proteomic datasets; among these, 40 were co-upregulated, 8 co-downregulated, while 5 displayed upregulation at the protein level despite downregulation at the mRNA level. Functional enrichment analyses (GO and KEGG) and protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis indicate that, at the transcriptional level, the primary factor contributing to differences in calf birth weight is that the placenta of the high-birth-weight (HB) group provides more nutrients to the fetus, characterized by enhanced nutrient transport (SLC2A1 and SLC2A11), energy metabolism (ACSL1, MICALL2, PAG2, COL14A1, and ELOVL5), and lipid synthesis (ELOVL5 and ELOVL7). In contrast, the placenta of the low-birth-weight (LB) group prioritizes cell proliferation (PAK1 and ITGA3) and angiogenesis. At the protein level, while the placentae from the HB group exhibit efficient energy production and lipid synthesis, they also demonstrate reduced immunity to various diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus and bacterial dysentery. Conversely, the LB group placentae excel in regulating critical biological processes, including cell migration, proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, and signal transduction; they also display higher disease immunity markers (COL6A1, TNC CD36, CD81, Igh-1a, and IGHG) compared to those of the HB group placentae. Co-expression analysis further suggests that increases in calf birth weight can be attributed to both high-efficiency energy production and lipid synthesis within the HB group placentae (ELOVL5, ELOVL7, and ACSL1), alongside cholesterol biosynthesis and metabolic pathways involving CYP11A1 and CYP17A1. CONCLUSION: We propose that ELOVL5, ELOVL7, ACSL1, CYP11A1, and CYP17A1 serve as potential protein biomarkers for regulating calf birth weight through the modulation of the fatty acid metabolism, lipid synthesis, and cholesterol levels.
PXD052318	39335448	Analysis of Sigma-1 Receptor Antagonist BD1047 Effect on Upregulating Proteins in HIV-1-Infected Macrophages Exposed to Cocaine Using Quantitative Proteomics. 	Modulation of Intracellular Pathways of HIV-1 infected Macrophages exposed to Sigma-1 Receptor Antagonist (BD1047) prior to Cocaine and its Role in Cathepsin B Secretion revealed by Quantitative Proteomics	BD1047, Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), cocaine, monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM)	HIV-1 infects monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) that migrate into the brain and secrete virus and neurotoxic molecules, including cathepsin B (CATB), causing cognitive dysfunction. Cocaine potentiates CATB secretion and neurotoxicity in HIV-infected MDM. Pretreatment with BD1047, a sigma-1 receptor antagonist, before cocaine exposure reduces HIV-1, CATB secretion, and neuronal apoptosis. We aimed to elucidate the intracellular pathways modulated by BD1047 in HIV-infected MDM exposed to cocaine. We hypothesized that the Sig1R antagonist BD1047, prior to cocaine, significantly deregulates proteins and pathways involved in HIV-1 replication and CATB secretion that lead to neurotoxicity. MDM culture lysates from HIV-1-infected women treated with BD1047 before cocaine were compared with untreated controls using TMT quantitative proteomics, bioinformatics, Lima statistics, and pathway analyses. Results demonstrate that pretreatment with BD1047 before cocaine dysregulated eighty (80) proteins when compared with the infected cocaine group. We found fifteen (15) proteins related to HIV-1 infection, CATB, and mitochondrial function. Upregulated proteins were related to oxidative phosphorylation (SLC25A-31), mitochondria (ATP5PD), ion transport (VDAC2-3), endoplasmic reticulum transport (PHB, TMED10, CANX), and cytoskeleton remodeling (TUB1A-C, ANXA1). BD1047 treatment protects HIV-1-infected MDM exposed to cocaine by upregulating proteins that reduce mitochondrial damage, ER transport, and exocytosis associated with CATB-induced neurotoxicity.
PXD052567	39337285	Increased Motility in Campylobacter jejuni and Changes in Its Virulence, Fitness, and Morphology Following Protein Expression on Ribosomes with Altered RsmA Methylation. 	Campylobacter rsmA mutantIncreased motility in Campylobacter jejuni and changes in its virulence, fitness and morphology following protein expression on ribosomes with altered RsmA methylation	Campylobacter, methyltransferases	Infection with Campylobacter jejuni is the major cause of human gastroenteritis in the United States and Europe, leading to debilitating autoimmune sequelae in many cases. While considerable progress has been made in detailing the infectious cycle of C. jejuni, a full understanding of the molecular mechanisms responsible for virulence remains to be elucidated. Here, we apply a novel approach by modulating protein expression on the pathogen's ribosomes by inactivating a highly conserved rRNA methyltransferase. Loss of the RsmA methyltransferase results in a more motile strain with greater adhesive and cell-invasive properties. These phenotypical effects correlate with enhanced expression of specific proteins related to flagellar formation and function, together with enzymes involved in cell wall/membrane and amino acid synthesis. Despite the enhancement of certain virulent traits, the null strain grows poorly on minimal media and is rapidly out-competed by the wild-type strain. Complementation with an active copy of the rsmA gene rescues most of the traits changed in the mutant. However, the complemented strain overexpresses rsmA and displays new flaws, including loss of the spiral cell shape, which is distinctive for C. jejuni. Proteins linked with altered virulence and morphology are identified here by mass spectrometry proteomic analyses of the strains.
PXD052915	39337441	Decoding Octopus Skin Mucus: Impact of Aquarium-Maintenance and Senescence on the Proteome Profile of the Common Octopus (Octopus vulgaris). 	Decoding Octopus Mucus: Impact of Aquarium-Maintenance and Senescence on the Skin Mucus Proteome Profile of the Common Octopus (Octopus vulgaris)	Octopus vulgaris, aquarium-maintained, bioactive peptides, food, non-invasive methods, senescent, skin mucus, welfare, wild	The common octopus (Octopus vulgaris) is an excellent candidate for aquaculture diversification, due to its biological traits and high market demand. To ensure a high-quality product while maintaining welfare in captive environments, it is crucial to develop non-invasive methods for testing health biomarkers. Proteins found in skin mucus offer a non-invasive approach to monitoring octopus welfare. This study compares the protein profiles in the skin mucus of wild, aquarium-maintained, and senescent specimens to identify welfare biomarkers. A tandem mass tag (TMT) coupled with an Orbitrap Eclipse Tribrid mass spectrometer was used to create a reference dataset from octopus skin mucus, identifying 1496 non-redundant protein groups. Although similar profiles were observed, differences in relative abundances led to the identification of potential biomarkers, including caspase-3-like, protocadherin 4, deleted in malignant brain tumors, thioredoxin, papilin, annexin, cofilin and mucin-4 proteins. Some of these proteins also revealed potential as bioactive peptides. This investigation provides the most extensive analysis of the skin mucus proteome in the common octopus and is the first to explore how aquarium maintenance and senescence alter the mucus proteome. This research highlights the potential of skin mucus protein/peptides as non-invasive monitoring biomarkers in cultured animals.
PXD052994	39337483	Tear Proteomics in Children and Adolescents with Type 1 Diabetes: A Promising Approach to Biomarker Identification of Diabetes Pathogenesis and Complications. 	Tear Proteomics Analysis in Children and Adolescents with Type  1 Diabetes	biomarkers, children, diabetic complications, diabetic ketoacidosis, glycemic control, tear proteome, type 1 diabetes	The aim of the current study was to investigate the tear proteome in children and adolescents with type 1 diabetes (T1D) compared to healthy controls, and to identify differences in the tear proteome of children with T1D depending on different characteristics of the disease. Fifty-six children with T1D at least one year after diagnosis, aged 6-17 years old, and fifty-six healthy age- and sex-matched controls were enrolled in this cross-sectional study. The proteomic analysis was based on liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) enabling the identification and quantification of the protein content via Data-Independent Acquisition by Neural Networks (DIA-NN). Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD052994. In total, 3302 proteins were identified from tear samples. Two hundred thirty-nine tear proteins were differentially expressed in children with T1D compared to healthy controls. Most of them were involved in the immune response, tissue homeostasis and inflammation. The presence of diabetic ketoacidosis at diagnosis and the level of glycemic control of children with T1D influenced the tear proteome. Tear proteomics analysis revealed a different proteome pattern in children with T1D compared to healthy controls offering insights on deregulated biological processes underlying the pathogenesis of T1D. Differences within the T1D group could unravel biomarkers for early detection of long-term complications of T1D.
PXD054715	39337603	The Role of Propionate-Induced Rearrangement of Membrane Proteins in the Formation of the Virulent Phenotype of Crohn's Disease-Associated Adherent-Invasive Escherichia coli. 	Proteomic profiling of the membrane fraction of E. coli strains MG1655 and ZvL2	E. coli, membrane fraction	Adhesive-invasive E. coli has been suggested to be associated with the development of Crohn's disease (CD). It is assumed that they can provoke the onset of the inflammatory process as a result of the invasion of intestinal epithelial cells and then, due to survival inside macrophages and dendritic cells, stimulate chronic inflammation. In previous reports, we have shown that passage of the CD isolate ZvL2 on minimal medium M9 supplemented with sodium propionate (PA) as a carbon source stimulates and inhibits the adherent-invasive properties and the ability to survive in macrophages. This effect was reversible and not observed for the laboratory strain K12 MG1655. We were able to compare the isogenic strain AIEC in two phenotypes-virulent (ZvL2-PA) and non-virulent (ZvL2-GLU). Unlike ZvL2-GLU, ZvL2-PA activates the production of ROS and cytokines when interacting with neutrophils. The laboratory strain does not cause a similar effect. To activate neutrophils, bacterial opsonization is necessary. Differences in neutrophil NADH oxidase activation and zeta-potential for ZvL2-GLU and ZvL2-PA are associated with changes in membrane protein abundance, as demonstrated by differential 2D electrophoresis and LC-MS. The increase in ROS and cytokine production during the interaction of ZvL2-PA with neutrophils is associated with a rearrangement of the abundance of membrane proteins, which leads to the activation of Rcs and PhoP/Q signaling pathways and changes in the composition and/or modification of LPS. Certain isoforms of OmpA may play a role in the formation of the virulent phenotype of ZvL2-PA and participate in the activation of NADPH oxidase in neutrophils.
PXD053185	39337645	Metabolite Profiling of Hydroponic Lettuce Roots Affected by Nutrient Solution Flow: Insights from Comprehensive Analysis Using Widely Targeted Metabolomics and MALDI Mass Spectrometry Imaging Approaches. 	lettuce root under different flow rates	hydroponic lettuce	Root morphology, an important determinant of nutrient absorption and plant growth, can adapt to various growth environments to promote survival. Solution flow under hydroponic conditions provides a mechanical stimulus, triggering adaptive biological responses, including altered root morphology and enhanced root growth and surface area to facilitate nutrient absorption. To clarify these mechanisms, we applied untargeted metabolomics technology, detecting 1737 substances in lettuce root samples under different flow rates, including 17 common differential metabolites. The abscisic acid metabolic pathway product dihydrophaseic acid and the amino and nucleotide sugar metabolism factor N-acetyl-d-mannosamine suggest that nutrient solution flow rate affects root organic acid and sugar metabolism to regulate root growth. Spatial metabolomics analysis of the most stressed root bases revealed significantly enriched Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathways: "biosynthesis of cofactors" and "amino sugar and nucleotide sugar metabolism". Colocalization analysis of pathway metabolites revealed a flow-dependent spatial distribution, with higher flavin mononucleotide, adenosine-5'-diphosphate, hydrogenobyrinic acid, and D-glucosamine 6-phosphate under flow conditions, the latter two showing downstream-side enrichment. In contrast, phosphoenolpyruvate, 1-phospho-alpha-D-galacturonic acid, 3-hydroxyanthranilic acid, and N-acetyl-D-galactosamine were more abundant under no-flow conditions, with the latter two concentrated on the upstream side. As metabolite distribution is associated with function, observing their spatial distribution in the basal roots will provide a more comprehensive understanding of how metabolites influence plant morphology and response to environmental changes than what is currently available in the literature.
PXD043255	39339664	Infant Milk Formula Enriched in Dairy Cream Brings Its Digestibility Closer to Human Milk and Supports Intestinal Health in Pre-Clinical Studies. 	Infant milk formula enriched in dairy cream brings its digestibility closer to human milk and supports intestinal health	CaCo-2, dairy lipids, infant formula, infant nutrition, milk fat globule	Human breast milk (HBM) is the "gold standard" for infant nutrition. When breast milk is insufficient or unavailable, infant milk formula (IMF) can provide a safe and nutritious alternative. However, IMFs differ considerably from HBM in composition and health function. We compared the digestibility and potential health functions of IMF containing low cream (LC-) or high cream (HC-) with pooled HBM. After simulated infant digestion of these samples, the bioavailability of key nutrients and immunomodulatory activities were determined via cell-based in vitro assays. A Caenorhabditis elegans leaky gut model was established to investigate cream effects on gut health. Distinct differences were observed in peptide diversity and sequences released from HC-IMF compared with LC-IMF during simulated digestion (p < 0.05). Higher levels of free fatty acids were absorbed through 21-day differentiated Caco-2/HT-29MTX monolayers from HC-IMF, compared with LC-IMF and HBM (p < 0.05). Furthermore, the immune-modulating properties of HC-IMF appeared to be more similar to HBM than LC-IMF, as observed by comparable secretion of cytokines IL-10 and IL-1beta from THP-1 macrophages (p > 0.05). HC-IMF also supported intestinal recovery in C. elegans following distortion versus LC-IMF (p < 0.05). These observations suggest that cream as a lipid source in IMF may provide added nutritional and functional benefits more aligned with HBM.
PXD042092	39339686	Generational Diet-Induced Obesity Remodels the Omental Adipose Proteome in Female Mice. 	Influence of generational obesity on the visceral adipose proteome	S-Trap, adipose tissue, diet, generational obesity, omental tissue, suspension trapping	Obesity, a complex condition that involves genetic, environmental, and behavioral factors, is a non-infectious pandemic that affects over 650 million adults worldwide with a rapidly growing prevalence. A major contributor is the consumption of high-fat diets, an increasingly common feature of modern diets. Maternal obesity results in an increased risk of offspring developing obesity and related health problems; however, the impact of maternal diet on the adipose tissue composition of offspring has not been evaluated. Here, we designed a generational diet-induced obesity study in female C57BL/6 mice that included maternal cohorts and their female offspring fed either a control diet (10% fat) or a high-fat diet (45% fat) and examined the visceral adipose proteome. Solubilizing proteins from adipose tissue is challenging due to the need for high concentrations of detergents; however, the use of a detergent-compatible sample preparation strategy based on suspension trapping (S-Trap) enabled label-free quantitative bottom-up analysis of the adipose proteome. We identified differentially expressed proteins related to lipid metabolism, inflammatory disease, immune response, and cancer, providing valuable molecular-level insight into how maternal obesity impacts the health of offspring. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD042092.
PXD055195	39339916	The Autophagy Receptor SQSTM1/p62 Is a Restriction Factor of HCMV Infection. 	The autophagy receptor SQSTM1/p62 is a restriction factor of HCMV infection	SQSTM1/p62, autophagy receptor, host cell defence, human cytomegalovirus, optineurin	(1) Background: Intrinsic defense mechanisms are pivotal host strategies to restrict viruses already at early stages of their infection. Here, we addressed the question of how the autophagy receptor sequestome 1 (SQSTM1/p62, hereafter referred to as p62) interferes with human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection. (2) Methods: CRISPR/Cas9-mediated genome editing, mass spectrometry and the expression of p62 phosphovariants from recombinant HCMVs were used to address the role of p62 during infection. (3) Results: The knockout of p62 resulted in an increased release of HCMV progeny. Mass spectrometry revealed an interaction of p62 with cellular proteins required for nucleocytoplasmic transport. Phosphoproteomics further revealed that p62 is hyperphosphorylated at position S272 in HCMV-infected cells. Phosphorylated p62 showed enhanced nuclear retention, which is concordant with enhanced interaction with viral proteins relevant for genome replication and nuclear capsid egress. This modification led to reduced HCMV progeny release compared to a non-phosphorylated version of p62. (4) Conclusions: p62 is a restriction factor for HCMV replication. The activity of the receptor appears to be regulated by phosphorylation at position S272, leading to enhanced nuclear localization, viral protein degradation and impaired progeny production.
PXD048535	39341035	Physioxia rewires mitochondrial complex composition to protect stem cell viability. 	Complexome profiling of human induced pluripotent stem cells cultured during normoxic versus hypoxic conditions	complexome remodeling, hypoxia, normoxia, stem cells	Human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) are an invaluable tool to study molecular mechanisms on a human background. Culturing stem cells at an oxygen level different from their microenvironmental niche impacts their viability. To understand this mechanistically, dermal skin fibroblasts of 52 probands were reprogrammed into hiPSCs, followed by either hyperoxic (20 % O2) or physioxic (5 % O2) culture and proteomic profiling. Analysis of chromosomal stability by Giemsa-banding revealed that physioxic -cultured hiPSC clones exhibited less pathological karyotypes than hyperoxic (e.g. 6 % vs. 32 % mosaicism), higher pluripotency as evidenced by higher Stage-Specific Embryonic Antigen 3 positivity, higher glucose consumption and lactate production. Global proteomic analysis demonstrated lower abundance of several subunits of NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase (complex I) and an underrepresentation of pathways linked to oxidative phosphorylation and cellular senescence. Accordingly, release of the pro-senescent factor IGFBP3 and beta-galactosidase staining were lower in physioxic hiPSCs. RNA- and ATAC-seq profiling revealed a distinct hypoxic transcription factor-binding footprint, amongst others higher expression of the HIF1alpha-regulated target NDUFA4L2 along with increased chromatin accessibility of the NDUFA4L2 gene locus. While mitochondrial DNA content did not differ between groups, physioxic hiPSCs revealed lower polarized mitochondrial membrane potential, altered mitochondrial network appearance and reduced basal respiration and electron transfer capacity. Blue-native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis coupled to mass spectrometry of the mitochondrial complexes detected higher abundance of NDUFA4L2 and ATP5IF1 and loss of incorporation into complex IV or V, respectively. Taken together, physioxic culture of hiPSCs improved chromosomal stability, which was associated with downregulation of oxidative phosphorylation and senescence and extensive re-wiring of mitochondrial complex composition.
PXD055651	39341821	Deletion of ASPP1 in myofibroblasts alleviates myocardial fibrosis by reducing p53 degradation. 	Deletion of ASPP1 in myofibroblasts alleviates myocardial fibrosis  by reducing p53 degradation	ASPP1, LC-MS, Primary mouse cardiac fibroblasts	In the healing process of myocardial infarction, cardiac fibroblasts are activated to produce collagen, leading to adverse remodeling and heart failure. Our previous study showed that ASPP1 promotes cardiomyocyte apoptosis by enhancing the nuclear trafficking of p53. We thus explored the influence of ASPP1 on myocardial fibrosis and the underlying mechanisms. Here, we observed that ASPP1 was increased after 4 weeks of MI. Both global and myofibroblast knockout of ASPP1 in mice mitigated cardiac dysfunction and fibrosis after MI. Strikingly, ASPP1 produced the opposite influence on p53 level and cell fate in cardiac fibroblasts and cardiomyocytes. Knockdown of ASPP1 increased p53 levels and inhibited the activity of cardiac fibroblasts. ASPP1 accumulated in the cytoplasm of fibroblasts while the level of p53 was reduced following TGF-beta1 stimulation; however, inhibition of ASPP1 increased the p53 level and promoted p53 nuclear translocation. Mechanistically, ASPP1 is directly bound to deubiquitinase OTUB1, thereby promoting the ubiquitination and degradation of p53, attenuating myofibroblast activity and cardiac fibrosis, and improving heart function after MI.
PXD055219	39341825	Epigenetic reader ZMYND11 noncanonical function restricts HNRNPA1-mediated stress granule formation and oncogenic activity. 	Epigenetic reader  ZMYND11  noncanonical function restricts HNRNPA1-mediated stress granule formation and oncogenic activity	HNRNPA1, PPI, Prostate cancer, ZMYND11	Epigenetic readers frequently affect gene regulation, correlate with disease prognosis, and hold significant potential as therapeutic targets for cancer. Zinc finger MYND-type containing 11 (ZMYND11) is notably recognized for reading the epigenetic marker H3.3K36me3; however, its broader functions and mechanisms of action in cancer remain underexplored. Here, we report that ZMYND11 downregulation is prevalent across various cancers and profoundly correlates with poorer outcomes in prostate cancer patients. Depletion of ZMYND11 promotes tumor cell growth, migration, and invasion in vitro, as well as tumor formation and metastasis in vivo. Mechanistically, we discover that ZMYND11 exhibits tumor suppressive roles by recognizing arginine-194-methylated HNRNPA1 dependent on its MYND domain, thereby retaining HNRNPA1 in the nucleus and preventing the formation of stress granules in the cytoplasm. Furthermore, ZMYND11 counteracts the HNRNPA1-driven increase in the PKM2/PKM1 ratio, thus mitigating the aggressive tumor phenotype promoted by PKM2. Remarkably, ZMYND11 recognition of HNRNPA1 can be disrupted by pharmaceutical inhibition of the arginine methyltransferase PRMT5. Tumors with low ZMYND11 expression show sensitivity to PRMT5 inhibitors. Taken together, our findings uncover a previously unexplored noncanonical role of ZMYND11 as a nonhistone methylation reader and underscore the critical importance of arginine methylation in the ZMYND11-HNRNPA1 interaction for restraining tumor progression, thereby proposing novel therapeutic targets and potential biomarkers for cancer treatment.
PXD051199	39341827	SETD8 inhibition targets cancer cells with increased rates of ribosome biogenesis. 	Development of novel chemical inhibitors of SETD8	Cancer, drug targets, thermal proteoome profiling	SETD8 is a methyltransferase that is overexpressed in several cancers, which monomethylates H4K20 as well as other non-histone targets such as PCNA or p53. We here report novel SETD8 inhibitors, which were discovered while trying to identify chemicals that prevent 53BP1 foci formation, an event mediated by H4K20 methylation. Consistent with previous reports, SETD8 inhibitors induce p53 expression, although they are equally toxic for p53 proficient or deficient cells. Thermal stability proteomics revealed that the compounds had a particular impact on nucleoli, which was confirmed by fluorescent and electron microscopy. Similarly, Setd8 deletion generated nucleolar stress and impaired ribosome biogenesis, supporting that this was an on-target effect of SETD8 inhibitors. Furthermore, a genome-wide CRISPR screen identified an enrichment of nucleolar factors among those modulating the toxicity of SETD8 inhibitors. Accordingly, the toxicity of SETD8 inhibition correlated with MYC or mTOR activity, key regulators of ribosome biogenesis. Together, our study provides a new class of SETD8 inhibitors and a novel biomarker to identify tumors most likely to respond to this therapy.
PXD041417	39342078	Biomarker discovery in progressive supranuclear palsy from human cerebrospinal fluid. 	Biomarkers discovery for progressive supranuclear palsy from the human cerebrospinal fluid using mass spectrometry-based proteomics	Progressive supranuclear palsy, biomarkers, cerebrospinal fluid	BACKGROUND: Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is a neurodegenerative disorder often misdiagnosed as Parkinson's Disease (PD) due to shared symptoms. PSP is characterized by the accumulation of tau protein in specific brain regions, leading to loss of balance, gaze impairment, and dementia. Diagnosing PSP is challenging, and there is a significant demand for reliable biomarkers. Existing biomarkers, including tau protein and neurofilament light chain (NfL) levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), show inconsistencies in distinguishing PSP from other neurodegenerative disorders. Therefore, the development of new biomarkers for PSP is imperative. METHODS: We conducted an extensive proteome analysis of CSF samples from 40 PSP patients, 40 PD patients, and 40 healthy controls (HC) using tandem mass tag-based quantification. Mass spectrometry analysis of 120 CSF samples was performed across 13 batches of 11-plex TMT experiments, with data normalization to reduce batch effects. Pathway, interactome, cell-type-specific enrichment, and bootstrap receiver operating characteristic analyses were performed to identify key candidate biomarkers. RESULTS: We identified a total of 3,653 unique proteins. Our analysis revealed 190, 152, and 247 differentially expressed proteins in comparisons of PSP vs. HC, PSP vs. PD, and PSP vs. both PD and HC, respectively. Gene set enrichment and interactome analysis of the differentially expressed proteins in PSP CSF showed their involvement in cell adhesion, cholesterol metabolism, and glycan biosynthesis. Cell-type enrichment analysis indicated a predominance of neuronally-derived proteins among the differentially expressed proteins. The potential biomarker classification performance demonstrated that ATP6AP2 (reduced in PSP) had the highest AUC (0.922), followed by NEFM, EFEMP2, LAMP2, CHST12, FAT2, B4GALT1, LCAT, CBLN3, FSTL5, ATP6AP1, and GGH. CONCLUSION: Biomarker candidate proteins ATP6AP2, NEFM, and CHI3L1 were identified as key differentiators of PSP from the other groups. This study represents the first large-scale use of mass spectrometry-based proteome analysis to identify cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers specific to progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) that can differentiate it from Parkinson's disease (PD) and healthy controls. Our findings lay a crucial foundation for the development and validation of reliable biomarkers, which will enhance diagnostic accuracy and facilitate early detection of PSP.
PXD051505	39343872	Characterizing age-related changes in intact mitochondrial proteoforms in murine hearts using quantitative top-down proteomics. 	Quantitative Top-Down Proteomics Analysis of Age-related Changes in Murine Hearts	Top-down, aging, quantitative	BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) are the leading cause of death worldwide, and the prevalence of CVDs increases markedly with age. Due to the high energetic demand, the heart is highly sensitive to mitochondrial dysfunction. The complexity of the cardiac mitochondrial proteome hinders the development of effective strategies that target mitochondrial dysfunction in CVDs. Mammalian mitochondria are composed of over 1000 proteins, most of which can undergo post-translational modifications (PTMs). Top-down proteomics is a powerful technique for characterizing and quantifying proteoform sequence variations and PTMs. However, there are still knowledge gaps in the study of age-related mitochondrial proteoform changes using this technique. In this study, we used top-down proteomics to identify intact mitochondrial proteoforms in young and old hearts and determined changes in protein abundance and PTMs in cardiac aging. METHODS: Intact mitochondria were isolated from the hearts of young (4-month-old) and old (24-25-month-old) mice. The mitochondria were lysed, and mitochondrial lysates were subjected to denaturation, reduction, and alkylation. For quantitative top-down analysis, there were 12 runs in total arising from 3 biological replicates in two conditions, with technical duplicates for each sample. The collected top-down datasets were deconvoluted and quantified, and then the proteoforms were identified. RESULTS: From a total of 12 LC-MS/MS runs, we identified 134 unique mitochondrial proteins in the different sub-mitochondrial compartments (OMM, IMS, IMM, matrix). 823 unique proteoforms in different mass ranges were identified. Compared to cardiac mitochondria of young mice, 7 proteoforms exhibited increased abundance and 13 proteoforms exhibited decreased abundance in cardiac mitochondria of old mice. Our analysis also detected PTMs of mitochondrial proteoforms, including N-terminal acetylation, lysine succinylation, lysine acetylation, oxidation, and phosphorylation. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD051505. CONCLUSION: By combining mitochondrial protein enrichment using mitochondrial fractionation with quantitative top-down analysis using ultrahigh-pressure liquid chromatography (UPLC)-MS and label-free quantitation, we successfully identified and quantified intact proteoforms in the complex mitochondrial proteome. Using this approach, we detected age-related changes in abundance and PTMs of mitochondrial proteoforms in the heart.
PXD048732	39343966	RAB12-LRRK2 complex suppresses primary ciliogenesis and regulates centrosome homeostasis in astrocytes. 	LRRK2-RAB12 Complex Suppresses Primary Ciliogenesis and Regulates Centrosome Homeostasis in Astrocytes	Centrosome Homeostasis, Ciliogenesis, LRRK2, Parkinson's disease, structure of LRRK2-RAB12 protein complex, tandem mass tag	The leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) phosphorylates a subset of RAB GTPases, and their phosphorylation levels are elevated by Parkinson's disease (PD)-linked mutations of LRRK2. However, the precise function of the LRRK2-regulated RAB GTPase in the brain remains to be elucidated. Here, we identify RAB12 as a robust LRRK2 substrate in the mouse brain through phosphoproteomics profiling and solve the structure of RAB12-LRRK2 protein complex through Cryo-EM analysis. Mechanistically, RAB12 cooperates with LRRK2 to inhibit primary ciliogenesis and regulate centrosome homeostasis in astrocytes through enhancing the phosphorylation of RAB10 and recruiting RILPL1, while the functions of RAB12 require a direct interaction with LRRK2 and LRRK2 activity. Furthermore, the ciliary and centrosome defects caused by the PD-linked LRRK2-G2019S mutation are prevented by Rab12 deletion in astrocytes. Thus, our study reveals a physiological function of the RAB12-LRRK2 complex in regulating ciliogenesis and centrosome homeostasis. The RAB12-LRRK2 structure offers a guidance in the therapeutic development of PD by targeting the RAB12-LRRK2 interaction.
PXD054415	39345414	Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry as a Tool for Metaproteomics: Interlaboratory Comparison Using a Model Microbiome. 	Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry as a Tool for Metaproteomics: Interlaboratory Comparison Using a Model Microbiome	data independent acquisition, metaproteomics, microbiome	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based metaproteomics is used to identify and quantify proteins in microbiome samples, with the frequently used methodology being Data-Dependent Acquisition mass spectrometry (DDA-MS). However, DDA-MS is limited in its ability to reproducibly identify and quantify lower abundant peptides and proteins. To address DDA-MS deficiencies, proteomics researchers have started using Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry (DIA-MS) for reproducible detection and quantification of peptides and proteins. We sought to evaluate the reproducibility and accuracy of DIA-MS metaproteomic measurements relative to DDA-MS using a mock community of known taxonomic composition. Artificial microbial communities of known composition were analyzed independently in three laboratories using DDA- and DIA-MS acquisition methods. DIA-MS yielded more protein and peptide identifications than DDA-MS in each laboratory. In addition, the protein and peptide identifications were more reproducible in all laboratories and provided an accurate quantification of proteins and taxonomic groups in the samples. We also identified some limitations of current DIA tools when applied to metaproteomic data, highlighting specific needs to improve DIA tools enabling analysis of metaproteomic datasets from complex microbiomes. Ultimately, DIA-MS represents a promising strategy for MS-based metaproteomics due to its large number of detected proteins and peptides, reproducibility, deep sequencing capabilities, and accurate quantitation.
PXD050528	39346858	Comprehensive Proteomic Profiling of Converted Adipocyte-like Cells from Normal Human Dermal Fibroblasts Using Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry. 	Comprehensive Proteomic Profiling of Converted Adipocyte-like Cells from Normal Human Dermal Fibroblast using Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry (DIA-MS)	DIA-MS, adipocyte-like cells, extracellular proteome, intracellular proteome., normal human dermal fibroblast	Adipocytes play an important role in the regulation of systemic energy homeostasis and are closely related to metabolic disorders, such as type-2 diabetes and inflammatory bowel diseases. Particularly, there is an increasing need for a human adipocyte model for studying metabolic diseases and obesity. However, utilizing human primary adipocyte culture and stem-cell-based models presents several practical limitations due to their time-consuming nature, requirement for relatively intensive labor, and high cost. Here, we applied direct conversion of normal human dermal fibroblasts (NHDFs) into adipocyte-like cells using an adipogenic cocktail containing 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine (IBMX), dexamethasone, insulin, and rosiglitazone and confirmed prominent lipid droplet accumulation in the converted cells. For profiling the proteome changes in the converted cells, we conducted a comprehensive quantitative proteome analysis of both the intracellular and extracellular proteome fractions using data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. We observed that several proteins, which are known to be highly expressed in adipocytes specifically, were dominantly increased in the converted cells. In this study, we suggest that NHDFs can be converted into adipocyte-like cells by an adipogenic cocktail and can serve as a useful tool for studying human adipocytes and their metabolism.
PXD051414	39348182	Activity-Based Acylome Profiling with N-(Cyanomethyl)-N-(phenylsulfonyl)amides for Targeted Lysine Acylation and Post-Translational Control of Protein Function in Cells. 	Precision Chemistry and Activity-Based Proteomics for Posttranslational Control of Protein Function	N-(cyanomethyl)-N-(phenylsulfonyl)amides, Posttranslational modifications, activity-based protein profiling, chemoproteomics, lysine conjugation, protein-RNA interactions, retinoid metabolism.	Lysine acylations are ubiquitous and structurally diverse post-translational modifications that vastly expand the functional heterogeneity of the human proteome. Hence, the targeted acylation of lysine residues has emerged as a strategic approach to exert biomimetic control over the protein function. However, existing strategies for targeted lysine acylation in cells often rely on genetic intervention, recruitment of endogenous acylation machinery, or nonspecific acylating agents and lack methods to quantify the magnitude of specific acylations on a global level. In this study, we develop activity-based acylome profiling (ABAP), a chemoproteomic strategy that exploits elaborate N-(cyanomethyl)-N-(phenylsulfonyl)amides and lysine-centric probes for site-specific introduction and proteome-wide mapping of posttranslational lysine acylations in human cells. Harnessing this framework, we quantify various artificial acylations and rediscover numerous endogenous lysine acylations. We validate site-specific acetylation of target lysines and establish a structure-activity relationship for N-(cyanomethyl)-N-(phenylsulfonyl)amides in proteins from diverse structural and functional classes. We identify paralog-selective chemical probes that acetylate conserved lysines within interferon-stimulated antiviral RNA-binding proteins, generating de novo proteoforms with obstructed RNA interactions. We further demonstrate that targeted acetylation of a key enzyme in retinoid metabolism engenders a proteoform with a conformational change in the protein structure, leading to a gain-of-function phenotype and reduced drug potency. These findings underscore the versatility of our strategy in biomimetic control over protein function through targeted delivery and global profiling of endogenous and artificial lysine acylations, potentially advancing therapeutic modalities and our understanding of biological processes orchestrated by these post-translational modifications.
PXD047213	39348425	Integrated ubiquitomics characterization of hepatocellular carcinomas. 	Comprehensive phosphoproteomics characterization identify drug targets of liver cancer	HCC, Phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Patients with aggressive hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) have limited therapeutic options. Therefore, a better understanding of HCC pathogenesis is needed to improve treatment. Genomic studies of HCC have improved our understanding of cancer biology. However, the ubiquitomic characteristics of HCC remain poorly understood. We aimed to reveal the ubiquitomic characteristics of HCC and provide clinical feature biomarkers of the aggressive HCC that may be used for diagnosis or therapy in the clinic. APPROACH AND RESULTS: The comprehensive proteomic, phosphoproteomic, and ubiquitomic analyses were performed on tumors and adjacent normal liver tissues from 85 HCC patients. HCCs displayed overexpression of drugable targets CBR1-S151 and CPNE1-S55. COL4A1, LAMC1 and LAMA4 were highly expressed in the DFS poor patients. Phosphoproteomic and ubiquitomic features of HCC revealed crosstalk in metabolism and metastasis. Ubiquitomics predicted diverse prognosis and clarified HCC subtype-specific proteomic signatures. Expression of biomarkers TUBA1A, BHMT2, BHMT, and ACY1 exhibited differential ubiquitination levels and displayed high prognostic risk scores, suggesting that targeting these proteins or their modified forms may be beneficial for future clinical treatment. We validated that TUBA1A K370 deubiquitination drove severe HCC and labeled an aggressive subtype of HCCs. TUBA1A K370 deubiquitination was at least partly attributed to AKT-mediated USP14 activation in HCC. Notably, targeting AKT-USP14-TUBA1A complex promoted TUBA1A degradation and blocked liver tumorigenesis in vivo. CONCLUSIONS: This study expands our knowledge of ubiquitomic signatures, biomarkers, and potential therapeutic targets in HCC.
PXD055563	39349089	Phlpp1 alters the murine chondrocyte phospho-proteome during endochondral bone formation. 	Phlpp1 alters the murine chondrocyte phospho-proteome during endochondral bone formation	Phlpp2, endochondral ossification, multi-omics, phospho-proteomics, transcriptomics	Appendicular skeletal growth and bone mass acquisition are controlled by a variety of growth factors, hormones, and mechanical forces in a dynamic process called endochondral ossification. In long bones, chondrocytes in the growth plate proliferate and undergo hypertrophy to drive bone lengthening and mineralization. Pleckstrin homology (PH) domain and leucine rich repeat phosphatase 1 and 2 (Phlpp1 and Phlpp2) are serine/threonine protein phosphatases that regulate cell proliferation, survival, and maturation via Akt, PKC, Raf1, S6k, and other intracellular signaling cascades. Germline deletion of Phlpp1 suppresses bone lengthening in growth plate chondrocytes. Here, we demonstrate that Phlpp2 does not regulate endochondral ossification, and we define the molecular differences between Phlpp1 and Phlpp2 in chondrocytes. Phlpp2(-/-) mice are phenotypically indistinguishable from their wildtype (WT) littermates, with similar bone length, bone mass, and growth plate dynamics. Deletion of Phlpp2 had moderate effects on the chondrocyte transcriptome and proteome compared to WT cells. By contrast, Phlpp1/2(-/-) (double knockout) mice resembled Phlpp1(-/-) mice phenotypically and molecularly, as the chondrocyte phospho-proteomes of Phlpp1(-/-) and Phlpp1/2(-/-) chondrocytes had similarities and were significantly different from WT and Phlpp2(-/-) chondrocyte phospho-proteomes. Data integration via multiparametric analysis showed that the transcriptome explained less variation in the data as a result of Phlpp1 or Phlpp2 deletion than proteome or phospho-proteome. Alterations in cell proliferation, collagen fibril organization, and Pdpk1 and Pak1/2 signaling pathways were identified in chondrocytes lacking Phlpp1, while cell cycle processes and Akt1 and Aurka signaling pathways were altered in chondrocytes lacking Phlpp2. These data demonstrate that Phlpp1, and to a lesser extent Phlpp2, regulate multiple and complex signaling cascades across the chondrocyte transcriptome, proteome, and phospho-proteome and that multi-omic data integration can reveal novel putative kinase targets that regulate endochondral ossification.
PXD044167	39349166	The plastidial protein acetyltransferase GNAT1 forms a complex with GNAT2, yet their interaction is dispensable for state transitions. 	The state transition acetyltransferase GNAT2 interacts with GNAT1 and GNAT3 in independent complexes	GNAT, PPI, acetyl transferases, acetylation, cross link, xlink	Protein N-acetylation is one of the most abundant co- and post-translational modifications in eukaryotes, extending its occurrence to chloroplasts within vascular plants. Recently, a novel plastidial enzyme family comprising eight acetyltransferases that exhibit dual lysine and N-terminus acetylation activities was unveiled in Arabidopsis. Among these, GNAT1, GNAT2, and GNAT3 reveal notable phylogenetic proximity, forming a subgroup termed NAA90. Our study focused on characterizing GNAT1, closely related to the state transition acetyltransferase GNAT2. In contrast to GNAT2, GNAT1 did not prove essential for state transitions and displayed no discernible phenotypic difference compared to the wild type under high light conditions, while gnat2 mutants were severely affected. However, gnat1 mutants exhibited a tighter packing of the thylakoid membranes akin to gnat2 mutants. In vitro studies with recombinant GNAT1 demonstrated robust N-terminus acetylation activity on synthetic substrate peptides. This activity was confirmed in vivo through N-terminal acetylome profiling in two independent gnat1 knockout lines. This attributed several acetylation sites on plastidial proteins to GNAT1, reflecting a subset of GNAT2's substrate spectrum. Moreover, co-immunoprecipitation coupled to mass spectrometry revealed a robust interaction between GNAT1 and GNAT2, as well as a significant association of GNAT2 with GNAT3 - the third acetyltransferase within the NAA90 subfamily. This study unveils the existence of at least two acetyltransferase complexes within chloroplasts, whereby complex formation might have a critical effect on the fine-tuning of the overall acetyltransferase activities. These findings introduce a novel layer of regulation in acetylation-dependent adjustments in plastidial metabolism.
PXD021886	39349271	Identification of dystrophin Dp71dDelta71-associated proteins in PC12 cells by quantitative proteomics. 	Identification of dystrophin Dp71d71 associated proteins in PC12 cells by quantitative proteomics	DMD, Dp71, protein interaction, quantitative proteomics.	Dystrophin Dp71 is essential for the development of the nervous system. Its alteration is associated with intellectual disability. Different Dp71 isoforms are generated by alternative splicing; however, their functions have not been fully described. Here, we identified Dp71dDelta71-associated proteins to understand the complex functions. PC12 cells, stably transfected with pTRE2pur-Myc/Dp71dDelta71 or pTRE2pur-Myc empty vector (EV), were analyzed by immunoprecipitation coupled with quantitative proteomics and a UHPLC ACQUITY M-Class. Spectral data were acquired in an MS with electrospray ionization and ion mobility separation Synapt G2-Si operated with data-independent acquisition and ion mobility spectrometry using high-definition multiplexed MS/MS mode. We used the Hi3 method to quantify absolutely every protein detected. A total of 121 proteins were quantified with Progenesis QI software and the database UP000002494. Seven new proteins associated with Dp71dDelta71 were selected with at least 2-fold quantity between immunoprecipitated proteins of PC12-Myc/Dp71dDelta71 versus PC12-EV cells. These results revealed new proteins that interact with Dp71dDelta71, including beta-tubulin, S-adenosylmethionine synthase isoform type-2, adapter molecule crk, helicase with zinc finger 2, WD repeat domain 93, cyclin-L2 and myosin-10, which are related to cell migration and/or cell growth. The results lay the foundation for future research on the relationship between these proteins and Dp71 isoforms.
PXD054088	39349471	Phosphorylation of caspases by a bacterial kinase inhibits host programmed cell death. 	Legionella pneumophila effector LegK3 phosphorylates multiple caspases involved in apoptosis signaling	Caspase3, Caspase7, Caspase9, LegK3	The intracellular bacterial pathogen Legionella pneumophila utilizes the Dot/Icm system to translocate over 330 effectors into the host cytosol. These virulence factors modify a variety of cell processes, including pathways involved in cell death and survival, to promote bacterial proliferation. Here, we show that the effector LegK3 is a eukaryotic-like Ser/Thr kinase that functions to suppress host apoptosis. Mechanistically, LegK3 directly phosphorylates multiple caspases involved in apoptosis signaling, including Caspase-3, Caspase-7, and Caspase-9. LegK3-induced phosphorylation of these caspases occurs at serine (Ser29 in Caspase-3 and Ser199 in Caspase-7) or threonine (Thr102 in Caspase-9) residues located in the prodomain or interdomain linkers. These modifications interfere with the suitability of the caspases as the substrates of initiator caspases or upstream regulators without impacting their proteolytic activity. Collectively, our study reveals a novel strategy used by L. pneumophila to maintain the integrity of infected cells for its intracellular growth.
PXD049133	39349554	Acute estradiol and progesterone therapy in hospitalized adults to reduce COVID-19 severity: a randomized control trial. 	E2P4 treated COVID19 donor plasma proteomics	COVID-19 severity, Estrogen, estradiol, immune tolerance, inflammation, progesterone, systemic estradiol	COVID-19 outcomes are less severe in women than men suggesting that female sex is protective. The steroids estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P4) promote anti-inflammatory immune responses and their therapeutic use for COVID-19 has been under investigation. The aim of the study was to evaluate the efficacy of a short systemic E2 and P4 combination in mitigating COVID-19 severity in hospitalized men and women. In a phase 2, single center, double blind, randomized placebo-controlled trial, ten male and female participants hospitalized for COVID-19 with scores 3-5 on the 9-point WHO ordinal scale were randomized to receive either (1) E2 cypionate (5 mg, IM) and micronized P4 (200 mg, PO), or (2) placebo-equivalent, in addition to standard of care (SOC). The primary outcome was the proportion of patients whose WHO scores improved to 1-2 on the day of discharge. Secondary outcomes included length of hospital stay (LOS), days on oxygen therapy (DOT), readmission rates (RR), adverse events (AEs), and change in circulating biomarkers using untargeted proteomics and cytokine profiling. There were no significant changes between the groups in primary outcome, LOS, DOT, RR or AEs. The E2P4 group exhibited a decrease in biomarker pathways of respiratory and gastrointestinal disease inflammation, infection by coronavirus, and immune cell trafficking and inflammatory response. A short-term E2P4 treatment in patients hospitalized for COVID-19 decreases biomarkers of inflammation. Considering the availability, low cost, and safety of E2 and P4, our results warrant additional studies to explore their effects in mitigating other viral pandemics. Clinical Trial Registration NCT04865029, ClinicalTrials.gov; (First trial registration 29/04/2021).
PXD045689	39349928	Deciphering the ghost proteome in ovarian cancer cells by deep proteogenomic characterization. 	Deciphering the ghost proteome in ovarian cancer cells by deep proteogenomic characterization.	Alternative proteins, crosslinking, ovarian cancer, proteogenomics	Proteogenomics is becoming a powerful tool in personalized medicine by linking genomics, transcriptomics and mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics. Due to increasing evidence of alternative open reading frame-encoded proteins (AltProts), proteogenomics has a high potential to unravel the characteristics, variants, expression levels of the alternative proteome, in addition to already annotated proteins (RefProts). To obtain a broader view of the proteome of ovarian cancer cells compared to ovarian epithelial cells, cell-specific total RNA-sequencing profiles and customized protein databases were generated. In total, 128 RefProts and 30 AltProts were identified exclusively in SKOV-3 and PEO-4 cells. Among them, an AltProt variant of IP_715944, translated from DHX8, was found mutated (p.Leu44Pro). We show high variation in protein expression levels of RefProts and AltProts in different subcellular compartments. The presence of 117 RefProt and two AltProt variants was described, along with their possible implications in the different physiological/pathological characteristics. To identify the possible involvement of AltProts in cellular processes, cross-linking-MS (XL-MS) was performed in each cell line to identify AltProt-RefProt interactions. This approach revealed an interaction between POLD3 and the AltProt IP_183088, which after molecular docking, was placed between POLD3-POLD2 binding sites, highlighting its possibility of the involvement in DNA replication and repair.
PXD050745	39350237	Establishment of goat mammary organoid cultures modeling the mammary gland development and lactation. 	Establishment of goat mammary organoid cultures modeling the mammary gland development and lactation	DIA, Dairy goat, Mammary organoids	BACKGROUND: Although several cell culture systems have been developed to investigate the function of the mammary gland in dairy livestock, they have potential limitations, such as the loss of alveolar structure or genetic and phenotypic differences from their native counterparts. Overcoming these challenges is crucial for lactation research. Development of protocols to establish lactating organoid of livestock represents a promising goal for the future. In this study, we developed a protocol to establish a culture system for mammary organoids in dairy goats to model the mammary gland development and lactation process. RESULTS: The organoids cultured within an extracellular matrix gel maintained a bilayer structure that closely resembled the native architecture of mammary tissue. The expansion of mammary organoids was significantly promoted by growth factors containing epidermal growth factor and fibroblast growth factor 2 whereas the proliferative index of the organoids was significantly inhibited by the treatment with WNT inhibitors. Upon stimulation with a lactogenic medium containing prolactin, the mammary organoids exhibited efficient lactation, characterized by the accumulation of lipid droplets in the lumen space. The lactation could be sustained for more than 3 weeks. Importantly, the expression patterns of genes related to fatty acid synthesis and milk proteins in lactating organoids closely mirrored those observed in mammary tissues. These observations were confirmed by data from proteomic analysis that the bulk of milk proteins was produced in the lactating organoids. CONCLUSION: This study is the first to establish a mammary organoid culture system modeling the mammary gland development and lactation process in ruminants. The efficient induction of lactation in ruminant mammary organoids holds promises for advancing the field of cell-based milk bio-manufacture in the food industry.
PXD050942	39350261	SUMOylation-induced membrane localization of TRPV1 suppresses proliferation and migration in gastric cancer cells. 	SUMOylation-Induced Membrane Localization of TRPV1 Suppresses Proliferation and Migration in Gastric Cancer Cells	AMPK, AP2M1, GC, Membrane expression, SUMOylation, TRPV1	Gastric cancer (GC) remains a significant health challenge due to its high mortality rate and the limited efficacy of current targeted therapies. A critical barrier in developing more effective treatments is the lack of understanding of specific mechanisms driving GC progression. This study investigates the role of Transient Receptor Potential Vanilloid 1 (TRPV1), a non-selective cation channel known for its high Ca(2+) permeability and tumor-suppressive properties in gastrointestinal cancers. Specifically, we explore the impact of SUMOylation-a dynamic and reversible post-translational modification-on TRPV1's function in GC. We demonstrate that SUMOylation of TRPV1 inhibits cell proliferation and migration in MGC-803 and AGS GC cells. By mutating amino acids near TRPV1's existing SUMO motif (slKpE), we created a bidirectional SUMO motif (EpsiKpsiE) that enhances TRPV1 SUMOylation, resulting in further suppression of GC cell proliferation and migration. In vivo studies support these findings, showing that TRPV1 SUMOylation prevents spontaneous tumorigenesis in a mouse GC model. Further investigation reveals that TRPV1 SUMOylation increases the protein's membrane expression by inhibiting its interaction with the adaptor-related protein complex 2 mu 1 subunit (AP2M1). This elevated membrane expression leads to increased intracellular Ca(2+) influx, activating the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) pathway, which in turn inhibits the proliferation and migration of GC cells.
PXD052740	39350574	Exploring the anticancer mechanism of cardiac glycosides using proteome integral solubility alteration approach. 	Exploring the Anti-Cancer mechanism of Cardiac Glycosides using proteome integral solubility alteration approach	Cardiac glycoside, Digitoxin, Digoxin, Ouabain, PISA	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Cardiac glycosides (CGs), traditionally used for heart failure, have shown potential as anti-cancer agents. This study aims to explore their multifaceted mechanisms in cancer cell biology using proteome integral solubility alteration (PISA), focusing on the interaction with key proteins implicated in cellular metabolism and mitochondrial function. METHODS: We conducted lysate-based and intact-cell PISA assays on cancer cells treated with CGs (Digoxin, Digitoxin, Ouabain) to analyze protein solubility changes. This was followed by mass spectrometric analysis and bioinformatics to identify differentially soluble proteins (DSPs). Molecular docking simulations were performed to predict protein-CG interactions. Public data including gene expression changes upon CG treatment were re-analyzed for validation. RESULTS: The PISA assays revealed CGs' broad-spectrum interactions, particularly affecting proteins like PKM2, ANXA2, SLC16A1, GOT2 and GLUD1. Molecular docking confirmed stable interactions between CGs and these DSPs. Re-analysis of public data supported the impact of CGs on cancer metabolism and cell signaling pathways. CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that CGs could be repurposed for cancer therapy by modulating cellular processes. The PISA data provide insights into the polypharmacological effects of CGs, warranting further exploration of their mechanisms and clinical potential.
PXD055723	39351093	LC-MS/MS-based metabolomics and proteomics reveal the intervention of Kangnian decoction on the postoperative intestinal adhesion of rats. 	LC-MS/MS-based metabolomics and proteomics reveal the intervention of Kangnian Decoction on the postoperative intestinal adhesion of rats	Kangnian Decoction, MAPK signaling pathway, Metabolomics, Postoperative Intestinal Adhesion, Proteomic analysis	Background: Postoperative Intestinal Adhesions (PIAs) remain a significant complication of abdominal surgery that can cause pain, infertility, and a potentially lethal bowel obstruction. Kangnian (KN) decoction, a Traditional Chinese Medicine prescription, has been shown to be effective in treating PIAs. Nevertheless, its underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Objective: This study aims to explore the therapeutic effects of KN decoction in a PIA rat model, as well as its potential mechanisms via metabolomics and proteomics analyses. Materials and methods: 60 rats were randomly assigned to six groups: Normal Control (NC), PIA model, Dexamethasone, KN-Low, KN-Medium, and KN-High. The PIA model was created by abdominal surgery under anesthesia. Pathological damage was evaluated through H&E staining and adhesion grading of affected tissues. The levels of serum cytokines (IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and TGF-1), Connective Tissue Growth Factor (CTGF), and Motilin (MTL) in adherent intestinal tissues were detected using ELISA kits. Untargeted metabolomics was used to investigate potential metabolic pathways of the KN decoction intervention in intestinal adhesions and to screen for differential biomarkers. The label-free quantitative proteomics technique was employed to detect Differentially Expressed Proteins and for biological function and pathway enrichment analyses. Results: In PIA rats, KN decoction significantly improved the pathological injury associated with intestinal adhesions and effectively regulated the blood inflammation indicators. Furthermore, KN presented a favorable anti-fibrotic and protective effect against abdominal adhesions, effectively modifying gastrointestinal motility disorders in PIA rats. We identified 58 variables as potential biomarkers and discovered seven main pathological pathways that may be associated with PIAs. Proteomics analysis revealed 75 DEPs that were primarily involved in Valine, leucine, and isoleucine degradation, the MAPK signaling pathway, and retrograde endocannabinoid signaling. Conclusion: This study proved that KN reduces intestinal mucosal injury, downregulates inflammatory factors, and alleviates intestinal adhesions, thus protecting the intestinal barrier function in PIA rats. The combination of proteomics and metabolomics provided a feasible approach for unraveling the therapeutic mechanism of KN decoction in PIAs.
PXD050147	39351192	Sirtuin 1/sirtuin 3 are robust lysine delactylases and sirtuin 1-mediated delactylation regulates glycolysis. 	SIRT1/SIRT3 are robust lysine delactylases and SIRT1-mediated delactylation regulates glycolysis	Delactylase, Lysine lactylation, Protein post-translational modifications, Sirtuins	Lysine lactylation (Kla), an epigenetic mark triggered by lactate during glycolysis, including the Warburg effect, bridges metabolism and gene regulation. Enzymes such as p300 and HDAC1/3 have been pivotal in deciphering the regulatory dynamics of Kla, though questions about additional regulatory enzymes, their specific Kla substrates, and the underlying functional mechanisms persist. Here, we identify SIRT1 and SIRT3 as key "erasers" of Kla, shedding light on their selective regulation of both histone and non-histone proteins. Proteomic analysis in SIRT1/SIRT3 knockout HepG2 cells reveals distinct substrate specificities toward Kla, highlighting their unique roles in cellular signaling. Notably, we highlight the role of specific Kla modifications, such as those on the M2 splice isoform of pyruvate kinase (PKM2), in modulating metabolic pathways and cell proliferation, thereby expanding Kla's recognized functions beyond epigenetics. Therefore, this study deepens our understanding of Kla's functional mechanisms and broadens its biological significance.
PXD051880	39351443	Enhancing T-cell recruitment in renal cell carcinoma with cytokine-armed adenoviruses. 	Immunopeptidome of Human Renal Cell Carcinoma (RCC) derived cells infected with oncolytic viruses.	CXCL10, CXCL9, HLA-I, IL-15, Immunopeptidome, Ligandome, MHC-I, PeptiCRAd, RCC, oncolytic adenovirus	Immunotherapy has emerged as a promising approach for cancer treatment, with oncolytic adenoviruses showing power as immunotherapeutic agents. In this study, we investigated the immunotherapeutic potential of an adenovirus construct expressing CXCL9, CXCL10, or IL-15 in clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) tumor models. Our results demonstrated robust cytokine secretion upon viral treatment, suggesting effective transgene expression. Subsequent analysis using resistance-based transwell migration and microfluidic chip assays demonstrated increased T-cell migration in response to chemokine secretion by infected cells in both 2D and 3D cell models. Flow cytometry analysis revealed CXCR3 receptor expression across T-cell subsets, with the highest percentage found on CD8+ T-cells, underscoring their key role in immune cell migration. Alongside T-cells, we also detected NK-cells in the tumors of immunocompromised mice treated with cytokine-encoding adenoviruses. Furthermore, we identified potential immunogenic antigens that may enhance the efficacy and specificity of our armed oncolytic adenoviruses in ccRCC. Overall, our findings using ccRCC cell line, in vivo humanized mice, physiologically relevant PDCs in 2D and patient-derived organoids (PDOs) in 3D suggest that chemokine-armed adenoviruses hold promise for enhancing T-cell migration and improving immunotherapy outcomes in ccRCC. Our study contributes to the development of more effective ccRCC treatment strategies by elucidating immune cell infiltration and activation mechanisms within the tumor microenvironment (TME) and highlights the usefulness of PDOs for predicting clinical relevance and validating novel immunotherapeutic approaches. Overall, our research offers insights into the rational design and optimization of viral-based immunotherapies for ccRCC.
PXD045285	39352075	Periostin Is a Disulfide-Bonded Homodimer and Forms a Complex with Fibronectin in the Human Skin. 	Periostin is a disulfide bonded homodimer and forms a complex with fibronectin in human skin	Periostin, extracellular matrix, fibronectin, wound healing	The protein periostin is a matricellular protein that is expressed in connective tissue. It is composed of five globular domains arranged in an elongated structure with an extensive disordered C-terminal tail. Periostin contains 11 cysteine residues, of which one is unpaired and the rest form five intramolecular disulfide bonds. Periostin plays an important role during wound healing and is also involved in driving the inflammatory state in atopic diseases. This study provides a comprehensive biochemical characterization of periostin in human skin and in dermal and pulmonary fibroblasts in vitro. Through the application of Western blotting, co-immunoprecipitation, and LC-MS/MS, we show for the first time that periostin is a disulfide-bonded homodimer and engages in a novel disulfide-bonded complex with fibronectin both in vivo and in vitro. This inherent characteristic of periostin holds the potential to redefine our approach to exploring and understanding its functional role in future research endeavors.
PXD054718	39352566	Glycoprofile Comparison of the SARS-CoV-2 Spike Proteins Expressed in CHO and HEK Cell Lines. 	Glycoprofile Comparison of SARS-CoV-2 Spike Proteins Expressed in CHO and HEK Cell Lines	CHO Cells, COVID-19, HEK Cells, MS-MS, N-Glycosylation, SARS-CoV-2	Coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 spike protein remains a key focus of research due to a continued need for diagnostic and therapeutic tools to monitor and respond to new variants. Glycosylation of the spike protein is critical for the protein's functions in viral attachment and host cell entry. For scalable and cost-effective production of the spike protein, expression system-driven divergence in glycosylation patterns on recombinant spike proteins needs to be fully understood. This study assessed the N-glycosylation profiles of a full-length trimeric spike protein expressed in either Human Embryonic Kidney (HEK Expi293F) or Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO-S) cells. Glycopeptide analysis was performed using a tandem mass spectrometry workflow and BioPharma  Finder TM  incorporating HEK and CHO glycan databases for protein characterisation. The results outline important differences in the variety and types of N-glycan generated by the two cell lines across the 22 known N-glycosylation sites of the spike protein. A notable increase in terminal sialylation, as well as the presence of the potentially immunogenic N-glycolylneuraminic acid at a functionally key N-glycosylation site, was observed in the CHO-S derived spike protein. With the potential for the relatively vast and more complex CHO glycan repertoire (182 glycans relative to 39 human glycans) to produce functional implications with CHO-S expressed spike protein, this study adds valuable knowledge to aid Quality by Design approaches and enable Multi Attribute Monitoring of specific N-glycosylation sites for proteoform analyses. This can further inform antigen development with future variants in order to devise updated diagnostic tests and therapeutic vaccine designs.
PXD040722	39353907	An atlas of the aging mouse proteome reveals the features of age-related post-transcriptional dysregulation. 	The mouse aging proteomic atlas	Aging, Multi-omics	To what extent and how post-transcriptional dysregulation affects aging proteome remains unclear. Here, we provide proteomic data of whole-tissue lysates (WTL) and low-solubility protein-enriched fractions (LSF) of major tissues collected from mice of 6, 15, 24, and 30 months of age. Low-solubility proteins are preferentially affected by age and the analysis of LSF doubles the number of proteins identified to be differentially expressed with age. Simultaneous analysis of proteome and transcriptome using the same tissue homogenates reveals the features of age-related post-transcriptional dysregulation. Post-transcriptional dysregulation becomes evident especially after 24 months of age and age-related post-transcriptional dysregulation leads to accumulation of core matrisome proteins and reduction of mitochondrial membrane proteins in multiple tissues. Based on our in-depth proteomic data and sample-matched transcriptome data of adult, middle-aged, old, and geriatric mice, we construct the Mouse aging proteomic atlas ( https://aging-proteomics.info/ ), which provides a thorough and integrative view of age-related gene expression changes.
PXD045506	39353912	The branched N-glycan of PD-L1 predicts immunotherapy responses in patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC. 	Branched N-glycan of PD-L1 predicts immunotherapy responses in patients with recurrent/metastatic HNSCC	Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), Immunotherapy, MGAT5, N-glycosylation, PD-L1	Immunotherapy has revolutionized cancer treatment, but the lack of a reliable predictive biomarker for treatment response remains a challenge. Alpha-1,6-Mannosylglycoprotein 6-beta-N-Acetylglucosaminyltransferase 5 (MGAT5) is a key regulator of complex N-glycan synthesis, and its dysregulation is associated with cancer progression. The lectin Phaseolus vulgaris leukoagglutinin (PHA-L) specifically binds to mature MGAT5 products. Previous studies have indicated elevated PHA-L staining in head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC), which implies increased activity of MGAT5. However, the specific role of MGAT5 in HNSCC remains unclear. In this study, we found significantly higher PHA-L staining and MGAT5 expression in HNSCC tumors compared to adjacent non-tumor tissues. Using a mass spectrometry (MS)-based glycoproteomic approach, we identified 163 potential protein substrates of MGAT5. Functional analysis revealed that protein substrates of MGAT5 regulated pathways related to T cell proliferation and activation. We further discovered that PD-L1 was among the protein substrates of MGAT5, and the expression of MGAT5 protected tumor cells from cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) killing. Treatment of nivolumab alleviated the protective effects of MGAT5 on CTL activity. Consistently, patients with MGAT5-positive tumors showed improved responses to immunotherapy compared to those with MGAT5-negative tumors. Using purified PD-L1 from HNSCC cells and a glycoproteomic approach, we further deciphered that the N35 and N200 sites carry the majority of complex N-glycans on PD-L1. Our findings highlight the critical role of MGAT5-mediated branched N-glycans on PD-L1 in modulating the interaction with the immune checkpoint receptor PD-1. Consequently, we propose that MGAT5 could serve as a biomarker to predict patients' responses to anti-PD-1 therapy. Furthermore, targeting the branched N-glycans at N35 and N200 of PD-L1 may lead to the development of novel diagnostic and therapeutic approaches.
PXD044134	39353946	Superior metabolic improvement of polycystic ovary syndrome traits after GLP1-based multi-agonist therapy. 	Superior metabolic improvement of polycystic ovary syndrome traits after GLP1-based multi-agonist therapy	GLP1, GLP1/E, GLP1/GIP, GLP1/GIP/Glucagon, PCOS	Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a heterogeneous condition, defined by oligo-/anovulation, hyper-androgenism and/or polycystic ovaries. Metabolic complications are common in patients suffering PCOS, including obesity, insulin resistance and type-2 diabetes, which severely compromise the clinical course of affected women. Yet, therapeutic options remain mostly symptomatic and of limited efficacy for the metabolic and reproductive alterations of PCOS. We report here the hormonal, metabolic and gonadal responses to the glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP1)-based multi-agonists, GLP1/Estrogen (GLP1/E), GLP1/gastric inhibitory peptide (GLP1/GIP) and GLP1/GIP/Glucagon, in two mouse PCOS models, with variable penetrance of metabolic and reproductive traits, and their comparison with metformin. Our data illustrate the superior efficacy of GLP1/E vs. other multi-agonists and metformin in the management of metabolic complications of PCOS; GLP1/E ameliorates also ovarian cyclicity in an ovulatory model of PCOS, without direct estrogenic uterotrophic effects. In keeping with GLP1-mediated brain targeting, quantitative proteomics reveals changes in common and distinct hypothalamic pathways in response to GLP1/E between the two PCOS models, as basis for differential efficiency. Altogether, our data set the basis for the use of GLP1-based multi-agonists, and particularly GLP1/E, in the personalized management of PCOS.
PXD058379	39355896	CENP-C-targeted PLK-1 regulates kinetochore function in C. elegans embryos. 	CENP-C-targeted PLK-1 regulates kinetochore function in C. elegans embryos	CENP-C, Mis12 complex., PLK-1, inner kinetochore	Polo-like kinase 1 (PLK-1) is present in centrosomes, the nuclear envelope, and kinetochores and plays a significant role in meiosis and mitosis. PLK-1 depletion or inhibition has severe consequences for spindle assembly, spindle assembly checkpoint (SAC) activation, chromosome segregation, and cytokinesis. BUB-1 targets PLK-1 to the outer kinetochore and, in mammals, the inner kinetochore PLK1 targeting is mediated by the constitutive centromere associated network (CCAN). BUB1-targeted PLK-1 plays a key role in SAC activation and a SAC-independent role through targeting CDC-20. In contrast, whether there is a specific, non-redundant role for inner kinetochore targeted PLK-1 is unknown. Here, we used the C. elegans embryo to study the role of inner kinetochore PLK-1. We found that CENP-C, the sole CCAN component in C. elegans and other species, targets PLK-1 to the inner kinetochore during prometaphase and metaphase. Disruption of the CENP-C/PLK-1 interaction leads to an imbalance in kinetochore components and a defect in chromosome congression, without affecting CDC-20 recruitment. These findings indicate that PLK-1 kinetochore recruitment by CENP-C has at least partially distinct functions than outer kinetochore PLK-1, providing a platform for a better understanding of the different roles played by PLK-1 during mitosis.
PXD054618	39356664	Chemical mapping of the surface interactome of PIEZO1 identifies CADM1 as a modulator of channel inactivation. 	PIEZO1 Interactome in HEK cells	CADM1, PIEZO1, ion channel, mechanosensation	The propeller-shaped blades of the PIEZO1 and PIEZO2 ion channels partition into the plasma membrane and respond to indentation or stretching of the lipid bilayer, thus converting mechanical forces into signals that can be interpreted by cells, in the form of calcium flux and changes in membrane potential. While PIEZO channels participate in diverse physiological processes, from sensing the shear stress of blood flow in the vasculature to detecting touch through mechanoreceptors in the skin, the molecular details that enable these mechanosensors to tune their responses over a vast dynamic range of forces remain largely uncharacterized. To survey the molecular landscape surrounding PIEZO channels at the cell surface, we employed a mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach to capture and identify extracellularly exposed proteins in the vicinity of PIEZO1. This PIEZO1-proximal interactome was enriched in surface proteins localized to cell junctions and signaling hubs within the plasma membrane. Functional screening of these interaction candidates by calcium imaging and electrophysiology in an overexpression system identified the adhesion molecule CADM1/SynCAM that slows the inactivation kinetics of PIEZO1 with little effect on PIEZO2. Conversely, we found that CADM1 knockdown accelerates inactivation of endogenous PIEZO1 in Neuro-2a cells. Systematic deletion of CADM1 domains indicates that the transmembrane region is critical for the observed effects on PIEZO1, suggesting that modulation of inactivation is mediated by interactions in or near the lipid bilayer.
PXD047064	39358323	Quantitative proteomics combined independent PRM analysis reveals the mitochondrial and synaptic mechanism underlying norisoboldine's antidepressant effects. 	Quantitative Proteomics Combined Independent PRM Analysis Reveals the Mitochondrial and Synaptic Mechanism Underlying Norisoboldine's Antidepressant Effects	MICE LC-MS/MS	Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common disease affecting 300 million people worldwide. The existing drugs are ineffective for approximately 30% of patients, so it is urgent to develop new antidepressant drugs with novel mechanisms. Here, we found that norisoboldine (NOR) showed an antidepressant efficacy in the chronic social defeat stress (CSDS) depression model in the tail suspension, forced swimming, and sucrose consumption tests. We then utilized the drug-treated CSDS mice paradigm to segregate and gain differential protein groups of CSDS versus CON (CSDSCON), imipramine (IMI)-treated versus CSDS (IMICSDS), and NOR-treated versus CSDS (NORCSDS) from the prefrontal cortex. These protein expression alterations were first analyzed by ANOVA with p < 0.05. The protein cluster 1 and cluster 3, in which the pattern of protein levels similar to the mood pattern, showed enrichment in functions and localizations related to mitochondrion, ribosome and synapses. Further GO analysis of the common proteins for NORCSDS groups and NORIMI groups supported the findings from ANOVA analysis. We employed Protein-Protein interaction (PPI) analysis to examine the proteins of NORCSDS and NORIMI, revealing an enrichment of the proteins associated with the mitochondrial ribosomal and synaptic functions. Further independent analysis using parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) revealed that Cox7c, Mrp142, Naa30, Ighm, Apoa4, Ssu72, Mrps30, Apoh, Acbd5, and Cdv3, exhibited regulation in the NOR-treated group to support the homeostasis of mitochondrial functions. Additionally, Dcx, Arid1b, Rnf112, and Fam3c, were also observed to undergo modulation in the NOR-treated groups to support the synaptic formation and functions. These findings suggest that the proteins involved in depression treatment exert effects in strengthen the mitochondrial and synaptic functions in the mice PFC. Western blot analysis supported the data that the levels of Mrpl42, Cox7c, Naa30, Rnf112, Dcx Apoa4, Apoh and Fam3c were altered in the CSDS mice, and rescued by NOR treatment, supporting the PRM data. NOR treatment also rescued the NLRP3 inflammasome activation in CSDS mice. In summary, the current proteomic research conducted on the prefrontal cortex has provided valuable insights into the specific and shared molecular mechanisms underlying pathophysiology and treatment to CSDS-induced depression, shedding light on the therapeutic effects of Norisoboldine.
PXD055397	39360848	N-glycoproteomic and proteomic alterations in SRD5A3-deficient fibroblasts. 	Glycoproteomic and proteomic alterations in SRD5A3-deficient fibroblasts	CDG type I, N-glycosylation, dolichol, lipid-linked oligosaccharide, polyprenol	SRD5A3-CDG is a congenital disorder of glycosylation (CDG) resulting from pathogenic variants in SRD5A3 and follows an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. The enzyme encoded by SRD5A3, polyprenal reductase, plays a crucial role in synthesizing lipid precursors essential for N-linked glycosylation. Despite insights from functional studies into its enzymatic function, there remains a gap in understanding global changes in patient cells. We sought to identify N-glycoproteomic and proteomic signatures specific to SRD5A3-CDG, potentially aiding in biomarker discovery and advancing our understanding of disease mechanisms. Using tandem mass tag (TMT)-based relative quantitation, we analyzed fibroblasts derived from five patients along with control fibroblasts. N-glycoproteomics analysis by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) identified 3,047 glycopeptides with 544 unique N-glycosylation sites from 276 glycoproteins. Of these, 418 glycopeptides showed statistically significant changes with 379 glycopeptides decreased (P < 0.05) in SRD5A3-CDG patient-derived samples. These included high mannose, complex and hybrid glycan-bearing glycopeptides. High mannose glycopeptides from protocadherin Fat 4 and integrin alpha-11 and complex glycopeptides from CD55 were among the most significantly decreased glycopeptides. Proteomics analysis led to the identification of 5,933 proteins, of which 873 proteins showed statistically significant changes. Decreased proteins included cell surface glycoproteins, various mitochondrial protein populations and proteins involved in the N-glycosylation pathway. Lysosomal proteins such as N-acetylglucosamine-6-sulfatase and procathepsin-L also showed reduced levels of phosphorylated mannose-containing glycopeptides. Our findings point to disruptions in glycosylation pathways as well as energy metabolism and lysosomal functions in SRD5A3-CDG, providing clues to improved understanding and management of patients with this disorder.
PXD052824	39361041	A snapshot of the Physcomitrella N-terminome reveals N-terminal methylation of organellar proteins. 	A snapshot of the Physcomitrella N-terminome reveals N-terminal methylation of organellar proteins	N-terminus, Physcomitrium, methylation, moss	KEY MESSAGE: Analysis of the N-terminome of Physcomitrella reveals N-terminal monomethylation of nuclear-encoded, mitochondria-localized proteins. Post- or co-translational N-terminal modifications of proteins influence their half-life as well as mediating protein sorting to organelles via cleavable N-terminal sequences that are recognized by the respective translocation machinery. Here, we provide an overview on the current modification state of the N-termini of over 4500 proteins from the model moss Physcomitrella (Physcomitrium patens) using a compilation of 24 N-terminomics datasets. Our data reveal distinct proteoforms and modification states and confirm predicted targeting peptide cleavage sites of 1,144 proteins localized to plastids and the thylakoid lumen, to mitochondria, and to the secretory pathway. In addition, we uncover extended N-terminal methylation of mitochondrial proteins. Moreover, we identified PpNTM1 (P. patens alpha N-terminal protein methyltransferase 1) as a candidate for protein methylation in plastids, mitochondria, and the cytosol. These data can now be used to optimize computational targeting predictors, for customized protein fusions and their targeted localization in biotechnology, and offer novel insights into potential dual targeting of proteins.
PXD051183	39362471	A cell-free system for functional studies of small membrane proteins. 	A cell-free system for functional studies of small membrane proteins	Small proteins, in-vitro translation, protein-protein interaction	Numerous small proteins have been discovered across all domains of life, among which many are hydrophobic and predicted to localize to the cell membrane. Based on a few that are well-studied, small membrane proteins are regulators involved in various biological processes, such as cell signaling, nutrient transport, drug resistance, and stress response. However, the function of most identified small membrane proteins remains elusive. Their small size and hydrophobicity make protein production challenging, hindering function discovery. Here, we combined a cell-free system with lipid sponge droplets and synthesized small membrane proteins in vitro. Lipid sponge droplets contain a dense network of lipid bilayers, which accommodates and extracts newly synthesized small membrane proteins from the aqueous surroundings. Using small bacterial membrane proteins MgrB, SafA, and AcrZ as proof of principle, we showed that the in vitro produced membrane proteins were functionally active, for example, modulating the activity of their target kinase as expected. The cell-free system produced small membrane proteins, including one from human, up to micromolar concentrations, indicating its high level of versatility and productivity. Furthermore, AcrZ produced in this system was used successfully for in vitro co-immunoprecipitations to identify interaction partners. This work presents a robust alternative approach for producing small membrane proteins, which opens a door to their function discovery in different domains of life.
PXD055428	39362602	Super enhanced purification of denatured-refolded ubiquitinated proteins by ThUBD revealed ubiquitinome dysfunction in liver fibrosis. 	DRUSP_A novel method of super-enhanced purification of ubiquitinome	DRUSP, ThUBD, ubiquitinome	Ubiquitination is crucial for maintaining protein homeostasis and plays a vital role in diverse biological processes. Ubiquitinome profiling and quantification are of great scientific significance. Artificial ubiquitin-binding domains (UBDs) have been widely employed to capture ubiquitinated proteins. The success of this enrichment relies on recognizing native spatial structures of ubiquitin and ubiquitin chains by UBDs under native conditions. However, the use of native lysis conditions presents significant challenges, including insufficient protein extraction, heightened activity of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) and proteasomes in removing the ubiquitin signal, and purification of a substantial number of contaminant proteins, all of which undermine the robustness and reproducibility of ubiquitinomics. In this study, we introduced a novel approach that combines denatured-refolded ubiquitinated sample preparation (DRUSP) with a tandem hybrid UBD (ThUBD) for ubiquitinomic analysis. The samples were effectively extracted using strongly denatured buffers and subsequently refolded using filters. DRUSP yielded a significantly stronger ubiquitin signal, nearly 3 times greater than that of the Control method. Then, 8 types of ubiquitin chains were quickly and accurately restored; therefore, they were recognized and enriched by ThUBD with high efficiency and no biases. Compared with the Control method, DRUSP showed extremely high efficiency in enriching ubiquitinated proteins, improving overall ubiquitin signal enrichment by approximately 10-fold. Moreover, when combined with ubiquitin chain-specific UBDs, DRUSP had also been proven to be a versatile approach. This new method significantly enhanced the stability and reproducibility of ubiquitinomics research. Finally, DRUSP was successfully applied to deep ubiquitinome profiling of early mouse liver fibrosis with increased accuracy, revealing novel insights for liver fibrosis research.
PXD049424	39362957	Molecular composition of skeletal muscle in infants and adults: a comparative proteomic and transcriptomic study. 	Healthy aging of skeletal muscle: Insights from a combined morphological and multiomic study	Muscle proteomics, bioinformatics in omics, mitochondria in aging, muscle transcriptomics, sarcopenia	To gain a deeper understanding of skeletal muscle function in younger age and aging in elderly, identification of molecular signatures regulating these functions under physiological conditions is needed. Although molecular studies of healthy muscle have been conducted on adults and older subjects, there is a lack of research on infant muscle in terms of combined morphological, transcriptomic and proteomic profiles. To address this gap of knowledge, we performed RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), morphometric analysis and assays for mitochondrial maintenance in skeletal muscle biopsies from both, infants aged 4-28 months and adults aged 19-65 years. We identified differently expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in adults compared to infants. The down-regulated genes in adults were associated with functional terms primarily related to sarcomeres, cellular maintenance, and metabolic, immunological and developmental processes. Thus, our study indicates age-related differences in the molecular signatures and associated functions of healthy skeletal muscle. Moreover, the findings assert that processes previously associated solely with aging are indeed part of development and healthy aging. Hence, combined findings of this study also indicate that age-dependent controls are crucial in muscle disease studies, as otherwise the comparative results may not be reliable.
PXD055597	39363010	Proteomic analysis of plasma-derived extracellular vesicles: pre- and postprandial comparisons. 	Proteomic analysis of plasma-derived extracellular vesicles: pre- and postprandial comparisonsProteomic analysis of plasma-derived extracellular vesicles: pre- and postprandial comparisons	Postprandial, extracellular vesicles, fasting, liquid biopsy, plasma	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are key in intercellular communication, carrying biomolecules like nucleic acids, lipids, and proteins. This study investigated postprandial characteristics and proteomic profiles of blood-derived EVs in healthy individuals. Twelve participants fasted overnight before baseline assessments. After consuming a controlled isocaloric meal, EVs were isolated for proteomic and flow cytometric analysis. Plasma triacylglyceride levels confirmed fasting completion, while protein concentrations in plasma and EVs were monitored for postprandial stability. Proteomic analysis identified upregulated proteins related to transport mechanisms and epithelial/endothelial functions postprandially, indicating potential roles in physiological responses to nutritional intake. Enrichment analyses revealed vesicle-related pathways and immune system processes. Flow cytometry showed increased expression of CD324 on CD9(+)CD63(+)CD81(+) large extracellular vesicles postprandially, suggesting an epithelial origin. These findings offer valuable insights into postprandial EV dynamics and their potential physiological significance, highlighting the need for stringent fasting guidelines in EV studies to account for postprandial effects on EV composition and function.
PXD045030	39363353	Impact of a teat disinfectant based on Lactococcus cremoris on the cow milk proteome. 	Influence of Lactococcus cremoris and iodophor-based teat disinfectants on the cow milk proteome	nanoLC-MS/MS	BACKGROUND: Dairy cow milking practices require cleaning and disinfection of the teat skin before and after milking to ensure the safety and quality of milk and prevent intramammary infections. Antimicrobial proteins of natural origin can be valuable alternatives to traditional disinfectants. In a recent field trial, we demonstrated that a teat dip based on a nisin A-producing Lactococcus cremoris (L) had comparable efficacy to conventional iodophor dip (C) in preventing dairy cow mastitis. Here, we present the differential shotgun proteomics investigation of the milk collected during the trial. METHODS: Four groups of quarter milk samples with low (LSCC) and high somatic cell count (HSCC) collected at the beginning (T0) and end (TF) of the trial were analyzed for a total of 28 LSCC (14 LSCC T0 and 14 LSCC TF) and 12 HSCC (6 HSCC T0 and 6 HSCC TF) samples. Milk proteins were digested into peptides, separated by nanoHPLC, and analyzed by tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) on an Orbitrap Fusion Tribrid mass spectrometer. The proteins were identified with MaxQuant and interaction networks of the differential proteins were investigated with STRING. The proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD045030. RESULTS: In healthy milk (LSCC), we detected 90 and 80 differential proteins at T0 and TF, respectively. At TF, the Lactococcus group showed higher levels of antimicrobial proteins. In mastitis milk (HSCC), we detected 88 and 106 differential proteins at T0 and TF, respectively. In the Lactococcus group, 14 proteins with antimicrobial and immune defense functions were enriched at TF vs. 4 proteins at T0. Cathelicidins were among the most relevant enriched proteins. Western immunoblotting validation confirmed the differential abundance. CONCLUSIONS: At T0, the proteomic differences observed in healthy milk of the two groups were most likely dependent on physiological variation. On the other hand, antimicrobial and immune defense functions were higher in the milk of cows with mammary gland inflammation of the Lactococcus-treated group. Among other factors, the immunostimulatory action of nisin A might be considered as a contributor.
PXD056199	39365699	Proteome-wide CETSA reveals diverse apoptosis-inducing mechanisms converging on an initial apoptosis effector stage at the nuclear periphery. 	IMPRINTS-CETSA MQ in OVCAR-3 cells, at 2h and 6h incubation	Apoptosis, MS-CETSA, Protein interaction state	Cellular phenotypes of apoptosis, as well as the activation of apoptosis caspase cascades, are well described. However, sequences and locations of early biochemical effector events after apoptosis initiation are still only partly understood. Here, we use integrated modulation of protein interaction states-cellular thermal shift assay (IMPRINTS-CETSA) to dissect the cellular biochemistry of early stages of apoptosis at the systems level. Using 5 families of cancer drugs and a new CETSA-based method to monitor the cleavage of caspase targets, we discover the initial biochemistry of the effector stage of apoptosis for all the studied drugs being focused on the peripheral nuclear region rather than the cytosol. Despite very different candidate apoptosis-inducing mechanisms of the drug families, as revealed by the CETSA data, they converge into related biochemical modulations in the peripheral nuclear region. This implies a higher control of the localization of the caspase cascades than previously anticipated and highlights the nuclear periphery as a critical vulnerability for cancer therapies.
PXD053920	39367033	Quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics profiling of meiotic divisions in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. 	Quantitative Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Profiling of Meiotic Cell Divisions in the Fission Yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe	Pat1 protein kinase, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, meiosis, phosphoproteome	In eukaryotes, chromosomal DNA is equally distributed to daughter cells during mitosis, whereas the number of chromosomes is halved during meiosis. Despite considerable progress in understanding the molecular mechanisms that regulate mitosis, there is currently a lack of complete understanding of the molecular mechanisms regulating meiosis. Here, we took advantage of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe, for which highly synchronous meiosis can be induced, and performed quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics analyses to track changes in protein expression and phosphorylation during meiotic divisions. We compared the proteomes and phosphoproteomes of exponentially growing mitotic cells with cells harvested around meiosis I, or meiosis II in strains bearing either the temperature-sensitive pat1-114 allele or conditional ATP analog-sensitive pat1-as2 allele of the Pat1 kinase. Comparing pat1-114 with pat1-as2 also allowed us to investigate the impact of elevated temperature (25 degreesC versus 34 degreesC) on meiosis, an issue that sexually reproducing organisms face due to climate change. Using TMTpro 18plex labeling and phosphopeptide enrichment strategies, we performed quantification of a total of 4673 proteins and 7172 phosphosites in S. pombe. We found that the protein level of 2680 proteins and the rate of phosphorylation of 4005 phosphosites significantly changed during progression of S. pombe cells through meiosis. The proteins exhibiting changes in expression and phosphorylation during meiotic divisions were represented mainly by those involved in the meiotic cell cycle, meiotic recombination, meiotic nuclear division, meiosis I, centromere clustering, microtubule cytoskeleton organization, ascospore formation, organonitrogen compound biosynthetic process, carboxylic acid metabolic process, gene expression, and ncRNA processing, among others. In summary, our findings provide global overview of changes in the levels and phosphorylation of proteins during progression of S. pombe cells through meiosis at normal and elevated temperatures, laying the groundwork for further elucidation of the functions and importance of specific proteins and their phosphorylation in regulating meiotic divisions in this yeast.
PXD055569	39367607	Bone-protective effects of neutralizing angiopoietin-like protein 4 monoclonal antibody in rheumatoid arthritis. 	Bone-protective effects of neutralizing angiopoietin-like protein 4 monoclonal antibody in rheumatoid arthritis	ANGPTL4, Biologic therapy, Bone protection, Inflammation, Rheumatoid Arthritis	Despite recent advances, rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients remain refractory to therapy. Dysregulated overproduction of angiopoietin-like 4 protein (ANGPTL4) is thought to be contributed to the disease development. ANGPTL4 was initially identified as a regulator of lipid metabolism, which is hydrolyzed to N-terminal (nANGPTL4) and C-terminal (cANGPTL4) fragments in vivo. cANGPTL4 is involved in several non-lipid-related processes, including angiogenesis and inflammation. The present study revealed that the level of ANGPTL4 was markedly elevated in the sera and synovial tissues from patients with RA versus controls. The administration of a neutralizing antibody against cANGPTL4 (anti-cANGPTL4 Ab) resulted in the inhibition of inflammatory processes and bone loss in animal models of collagen-induced arthritis (CIA) and adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA). Transcriptomic and proteomic profiling of synovial tissues from AIA model indicated that the anti-cANGPTL4 Ab inhibited fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) immigration and inflammatory-induced osteoclastogenesis. Mechanistically, the anti-cANGPTL4 Ab has been shown to inhibit TNF-alpha-induced inflammatory cascades in RA-FLS through the sirtuin 1/nuclear factor-kappaB signaling pathway. Moreover, the anti-cANGPTL4 Ab was found to block FLS invasion- and immigration-induced osteoclast activation. Collectively, these findings identify ANGPTL4 as a prospective biomarker for the diagnosis of RA, and targeting cANGPTL4 may represent a potential therapeutic strategy.
PXD044676	39368147	Tracing troubles: Unveiling the hidden impact of inorganic contamination on juvenile green sea turtle. 	LC-MSMS analysis of green sea turtles in Reunion Island	Marine environment, health monitoring, pollution, quantitative proteomics	Human activities and climate change have negatively affected the world's oceans, leading to a decline of 30 to 60 % in coastal ecosystems' biodiversity and habitats. The projected increase in the human population to 9.7 billion by 2050 raises concerns about the sustainability of marine ecosystem conservation and exploitation. Marine turtles, as sentinel species, accumulate contaminants, including trace elements, due to their extensive migration and long-life span. However, there is a lack of data on the degree of contamination and their effects on marine turtles' health. This study focuses on assessing in-situ inorganic contamination in juvenile green sea turtles from La Reunion Island and its short-term impact on individual health, using conventional biomarkers and proteomics. The goals include examining contamination patterns in different tissues and identifying potential new biomarkers for long-term monitoring and conservation efforts. The study identified differential metal contamination between blood and scute samples, which could help illuminate temporal exposure to trace elements in turtle individuals. We also found that some conventional biomarkers were related to trace element exposure, while the proteome responded differently to various contaminant mixtures. Immune processes, cellular organization, and metabolism were impacted, indicating that contaminant mixtures in the wild would have an effect on turtle's health. Fifteen biomarker candidates associated with strong molecular responses of sea turtle to trace element contamination are proposed for future long-term monitoring. The findings emphasize the importance of using proteomic approaches to detect subtle physiological responses to contaminants in the wild and support the need for non-targeted analysis of trace elements in the biomonitoring of sea turtle health.
PXD051345	39368438	Comparative proteomic analysis of metronidazole-sensitive and resistant Trichomonas vaginalis suggests a novel mode of metronidazole action and resistance. 	Factors of metronidazole resistance in the human parasite Trichomonas vaginalis	Trichomonas vaginalis, antibiotic resistance, comparative proteomic analysis, metronidazole resistance, parasite, sexually transmitted disease	The microaerophilic parasite Trichomonas vaginalis occurs worldwide and causes inflammation of the urogenital tract, especially in women. With 156 million infections annually, trichomoniasis is the most prevalent non-viral sexually transmitted disease. Trichomoniasis is treated with 5-nitroimidazoles, especially metronidazole, which are prodrugs that have to be reduced at their nitro group to be activated. Resistance rates to metronidazole have remained comparably low, but they can be higher in certain areas leading to an increase of refractory cases. Metronidazole resistance in T. vaginalis can develop in vivo in clinical isolates, or it can be induced in the laboratory. Both types of resistance share certain characteristics but differ with regard to the dependence of ambient oxygen to become manifest. Although several candidate factors for metronidazole resistance have been described in the past, e.g. pyruvate:ferredoxin oxidoreductase and ferredoxin or thioredoxin reductase, open questions regarding their role in resistance have remained. In order to address these questions, we performed a proteomic study with metronidazole-sensitive and -resistant laboratory strains, as well as with clinical strains, in order to identify factors causative for resistance. The list of proteins consistently associated with resistance was surprisingly short. Resistant laboratory and clinical strains only shared the downregulation of flavin reductase 1 (FR1), an enzyme previously identified to be involved in resistance. Originally, FR1 was believed to be an oxygen scavenging enzyme, but here we identified it as a ferric iron reductase which produces ferrous iron. Based on this finding and on further experimental evidence as presented herein, we propose a novel mechanism of metronidazole activation which is based on ferrous iron binding to proteins, thereby rendering them susceptible to complex formation with metronidazole. Upon resolution of iron-protein-metronidazole complexes, metronidazole radicals are formed which quickly react with thiols or proteins in the direct vicinity, leading to breaks in the peptide backbone.
PXD053631	39368483	Clinical-proteomic classification and precision treatment strategy of chordoma. 	Clinical-proteomic classification and precision treatment strategy of chordoma	chordoma, proteomic classification	Chordoma is a rare and heterogeneous mesenchymal malignancy, with distinct clinical and biological behaviors. Till now, its comprehensive clinical-molecular characteristics and accurate molecular classification remain obscure. In this research, we enroll 102 patients with chordoma and describe their clinical, imageological, and histopathological features. Through tandem mass tag-based proteomic analysis and nonnegative matrix factorization clustering, we classify chordoma into three molecular subtypes: bone microenvironment-dominant, mesenchymal-derived, and mesenchymal-to-epithelial transition-mediated pattern. The three subtypes exhibit discrete clinical prognosis and distinct biological attributes of osteoclastogenesis and immunogenicity, oxidative phosphorylation, and receptor tyrosine kinase activation, suggesting targeted therapeutic strategies of denosumab, S-Gboxin, and anlotinib, respectively. Notably, these approaches demonstrate positive treatment outcomes for each subtype in vitro and in vivo. Altogether, this work sheds light on the clinical-proteomic characteristics of chordoma and provides a candidate precision treatment strategy for chordoma according to molecular classification, underscoring their potential for clinical application.
PXD053890	39368693	Measurement of absolute abundance of crystallins in human and alphaA N101D transgenic mouse lenses using (15)N-labeled crystallin standards. 	Absolute abundance of human crystallins in lens	Crystallin, cataract, lens, stable isotope labeling	Stable isotope labeled standards of all major human lens crystallins were created to measure the abundance of lens endogenous crystallins from birth to adulthood. All major human crystallins (alphaA, alphaB, betaA2, betaA3/A1, betaA4, betaB1, betaB2, betaB3, gammaA, gammaB, gammaC, gammaD, gammaS) were cloned with N-terminal 6 x His tagged SUMO for ease of purification and the ability to generate natural N-termini by SUMO protease cleavage when producing crystallins for structure/function studies. They were then expressed in (15)N-enriched media, quantified by mass spectrometry, and mixed in proportions found in young human lens to act as an artificial lens standard. The absolute quantification method was tested using soluble protein from 5-day, 23-day, 18-month, and 18-year-old human lenses spiked with the (15)N artificial lens standard. Proteins were trypsinized, relative ratios of light and heavy labeled peptides determined using high-resolution precursor and data independent MS2 scans, and data analysis performed using Skyline software. Crystallin abundances were measured in both human donor lenses and in transgenic mouse alphaA N101D cataract lenses. Technical replicates of human crystallin abundance measurements were performed with average coefficients of variation of approximately 2% across all 13 crystallins. alphaA crystallin comprised 27% of the soluble protein of 5-day-old lens and decreased to 16% by 18-years of age. Over this time period alphaB increased from 6% to 9% and the alphaA/alphaB ratio decreased from 4.5/1 to 2/1. gammaS-crystallin also increased nearly 2-fold from 7% to 12%, becoming the 3(rd) most abundant protein in adult lens, while betaB1 increased from 14% to 20%, becoming the most abundant crystallin of adult lens. Minor crystallins betaA2, betaB3, and gammaA comprised only about 1% each of the newborn lens soluble protein, and their abundance dropped precipitously by adulthood. While 9 of the SUMO tagged crystallins were useful for purification of crystallins for structural studies, gammaA, gammaB, gammaC, and gammaD were resistant to cleavage by SUMO protease. The abundance of WT and N101D human alphaA in transgenic mouse lenses was approximately 40-fold lower than endogenous mouse alphaA, but the deamidation mimic human alphaA N101D was less soluble than human WT alphaA. The high content of alphaA and the transient abundance of betaA2, betaB3, and gammaA in young lens suggest these crystallins play a role in early lens development and growth. betaB1 becoming the most abundant crystallin may result from its role in promoting higher order beta-crystallin oligomerization in mature lens. The full set of human crystallin expression vectors in the Addgene repository should be a useful resource for future crystallin studies. (15)N labeling of these crystallins will be useful to accurately quantify crystallins in lens anatomic regions, as well as measure the composition of insoluble light scattering crystallin aggregates. The standards will also be useful to measure the abundance of crystallins expressed in transgenic animal models.
PXD055950	39368994	The membrane curvature-inducing REEP1-4 proteins generate an ER-derived vesicular compartment. 	The membrane curvature-inducing REEP1-4 proteins generate an ER-derived vesicular compartment	Endoplasmic reticulum, REEP1, REEP5, hereditary spastic paraplegia, membrane curvature, tubules, vesicles	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is shaped by abundant membrane curvature-generating proteins that include the REEP family member REEP5. The REEP1 subfamily, consisting of four proteins in mammals (REEP1-4), is less abundant and lack a N-terminal region. Mutations in REEP1 and REEP2 cause Hereditary Spastic Paraplegia, but the function of these four REEP proteins remains enigmatic. Here we show that REEP1-4 reside in a unique vesicular compartment and identify features that determine their localization. Mutations in REEP1-4 that compromise curvature generation, including those causing disease, relocalize the proteins to the bulk ER. These mutants interact with wild-type proteins to retain them in the ER, consistent with their autosomal-dominant disease inheritance. REEP1 vesicles contain the membrane fusogen atlastin-1, but not general ER proteins. We propose that REEP1-4 generate these vesicles themselves by budding from the ER, and that they cycle back to the ER by atlastin-mediated fusion. The vesicles may serve to regulate ER tubule dynamics.
PXD047620	39369245	Elucidating Thermothielavioides terrestris secretome changes for improved saccharification of mild steam-pretreated spruce. 	Thermothielavioides terrestris secretome after growth on raw and mildly steam-pretreated spruce	CAZy, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, TMT, Thermothielavioides terrestris, spruce	BACKGROUND: The efficient use of softwood in biorefineries is hampered by its recalcitrance to enzymatic saccharification. In the present study, the fungus Thermothielavioides terrestris LPH172 was cultivated on three steam-pretreated spruce materials (STEX180degreesC/auto, STEX210degreesC/auto, and STEX210degreesC/H2SO4), characterized by different hemicellulose content and structure, as well as on untreated biomass. The aim of the study was to map substrate-induced changes in the secretome of T. terrestris grown on differently treated spruce materials and to evaluate the hydrolytic efficiency of the secretome as supplement for a commercial enzyme mixture. RESULTS: The cultivation of T. terrestris was monitored by endo-cellulase, endo-xylanase, endo-mannanase, laccase, and peroxidase activity measurements. Proteomic analysis was performed on the secretomes induced by the spruce materials to map the differences in enzyme production. Growth of T. terrestris on STEX180degreesC/auto and STEX210degreesC/auto induced higher expression level of mannanases and mannosidases of the GH5_7 CAZy family compared to cultivation on the other materials. Cultivation on untreated biomass led to overexpression of GH47, GH76, and several hemicellulose debranching enzymes compared to the cultivation on the pretreated materials. T. terrestris grown on untreated, STEX180degreesC/auto and STEX210degreesC/auto induced three arabinofuranosidases of the GH43 and GH62 families; while growth on STEX210degreesC/H2SO4 induced a GH51 arabinofuranosidase and a GH115 glucuronidase. All secretomes contained five lytic polysaccharide monooxygenases of the AA9 family. Supplementation of Celluclast(R) + Novozym188 with the secretome obtained by growing the fungus grown on STEX180degreesC/auto achieved a twofold higher release of mannose from spruce steam-pretreated with acetic acid as catalyst, compared to the commercial enzyme cocktail alone. CONCLUSIONS: Minor changes in the structure and composition of spruce affect the composition of fungal secretomes, with differences in some classes explaining an increased hydrolytic efficiency. As demonstrated here, saccharification of spruce biomass with commercial enzyme cocktails can be further enhanced by supplementation with tailor-made secretomes.
PXD052842	39369254	Development of a new paradigm model for deciphering action mechanism of Danhong injection using a combination of isothermal shift assay and database interrogation. 	Targets identification of Danhong injection by iTSA	Danhong injection, TMT proteomics, targets identification	BACKGROUND: Identification of active components of traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) and their respective targets is important for understanding the mechanisms underlying TCM efficacy. However, there are still no effective technical methods to achieve this. METHODS: Herein, we have established a method for rapidly identifying targets of a specific TCM and interrogating the targets with their corresponding active components based on Isothermal Shift Assay (iTSA) and database interrogation. RESULTS: We optimized iTSA workflow and identified 110 targets for Danhong injection (DHI) which is used as an effective remedy for cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases. Moreover, we identified the targets of the nine major ingredients found in DHI. Database interrogation found that the potential targets for DHI, in which we verified that ADK as the target for salvianolic acid A and ALDH1B1 as the target for protocatechualdehyde in DHI, respectively. CONCLUSION: Overall, we established a novel paradigm model for the identification of targets and their respective ingredients in DHI, which facilitates the discovery of drug candidates and targets for improving disease management and contributes to revealing the underlying mechanisms of TCM and fostering TCM development and modernization.
PXD045187	39371417	A proteogenomic atlas of the human neural retina. 	A proteogenomic atlas of the human neural retina	MSFragger, PacBio long-read RNA-sequencing, dda-PASEF, neural retina, proteogenomics	The human neural retina is a complex tissue with abundant alternative splicing and more than 10% of genetic variants linked to inherited retinal diseases (IRDs) alter splicing. Traditional short-read RNA-sequencing methods have been used for understanding retina-specific splicing but have limitations in detailing transcript isoforms. To address this, we generated a proteogenomic atlas that combines PacBio long-read RNA-sequencing data with mass spectrometry and whole genome sequencing data of three healthy human neural retina samples. We identified nearly 60,000 transcript isoforms, of which approximately one-third are novel. Additionally, ten novel peptides confirmed novel transcript isoforms. For instance, we identified a novel IMPDH1 isoform with a novel combination of known exons that is supported by peptide evidence. Our research underscores the potential of in-depth tissue-specific transcriptomic analysis to enhance our grasp of tissue-specific alternative splicing. The data underlying the proteogenomic atlas are available via EGA with identifier EGAD50000000101, via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD045187, and accessible through the UCSC genome browser.
PXD042718	39372708	Environmental conditions elicit a slow but enduring response of histone post-translational modifications in Mozambique tilapia. 	Environmental Conditions Elicit a Slow but Enduring Response of Histone Post-Translational Modifications in Mozambique Tilapia	DIA, PTM, gill, histone, salinity, tilapia	This study sheds new light on the timescale through which histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) respond to environmental stimuli, demonstrating that the histone PTM response does not necessarily precede the proteomic response or acclimation. After a variety of salinity treatments were administered to Mozambique tilapia (Oreochromis mossambicus) throughout their lifetimes, we quantified 343 histone PTMs in the gills of each fish. We show here that histone PTMs differ dramatically between fish exposed to distinct environmental conditions for 18 months, and that the majority of these histone PTM alterations persist for at least 4 weeks, irrespective of further salinity changes. However, histone PTMs respond minimally to 4-week-long periods of salinity acclimation during adulthood. The results of this study altogether signify that patterns of histone PTMs in individuals reflect their prolonged exposure to environmental conditions.
PXD055607	39375381	AtPRMT3-RPS2B promotes ribosome biogenesis and coordinates growth and cold adaptation trade-off. 	AtPRMT3-RPS2B promotes ribosome biogenesis and coordinates growth and cold adaptation trade-off _DIA MS	quantitative MS analysis	Translation, a fundamental process regulating cellular growth and proliferation, relies on functional ribosomes. As sessile organisms, plants have evolved adaptive strategies to maintain a delicate balance between growth and stress response. But the underlying mechanisms, particularly on the translational level, remain less understood. In this study, we revealed the mechanisms of AtPRMT3-RPS2B in orchestrating ribosome assembly and managing translational regulation. Through a forward genetic screen, we identified PDCD2-D1 as a suppressor gene restoring abnormal development and ribosome biogenesis in atprmt3-2 mutants. Our findings confirmed that PDCD2 interacts with AtPRMT3-RPS2B, and facilitates pre-ribosome transport through nuclear pore complex, finally ensuring normal ribosome translation in the cytoplasm. Additionally, the dysfunction of AtPRMT3-RPS2B was found to enhance freezing tolerance. Moreover, we revealed that AtPRMT3-RPS2B promotes the translation of housekeeping mRNAs while concurrently repressing stress-related mRNAs. In summary, our study sheds light on the regulatory roles of AtPRMT3-RPS2B in ribosome assembly and translational balance, enabling the trade-off between growth and stress.
PXD043922	39375532	Unveiling the role of transgelin as a prognostic and therapeutic target in kidney fibrosis via a proteomic approach. 	In-depth proteome analysis of renal fibrosis in primary cultured human-derived kidney cells	TMT, hTEC, renal fibrosis	Chronic kidney disease (CKD) progression involves tubulointerstitial fibrosis, a process characterized by excessive extracellular matrix accumulation. To identify potential biomarkers for kidney fibrosis, we performed mass spectrometry-based proteomic profiling of human kidney tubular epithelial cells and kidney tissue from a 5/6 nephrectomy rat model. Multidisciplinary analysis across kidney fibrosis models revealed 351 differentially expressed proteins associated with kidney fibrosis, and they were enriched in processes related to the extracellular matrix, kidney aging, and mitochondrial functions. Network analysis of the selected proteins revealed five crucial proteins, of which transgelin emerged as a candidate protein that interacts with known fibrosis-related proteins. Concordantly, the gene expression of transgelin in the kidney tissue from the 5/6 nephrectomy model was elevated. Transgelin expression in kidney tissue gradually increased from intermediate to advanced fibrosis stages in 5/6 Nx rats and mice with unilateral ureteral obstruction. Subsequent validation in kidney tissue and urine samples from patients with CKD confirmed the upregulation of transgelin, particularly under advanced disease stages. Moreover, we investigated whether blocking TAGLN ameliorated kidney fibrosis and reduced reactive oxygen species levels in cellular models. In conclusion, our proteomic approach identified TAGLN as a potential noninvasive biomarker and therapeutic target for CKD-associated kidney fibrosis, suggesting its role in modulating mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress responses.
PXD052797	39377264	Increased levels of extracellular matrix proteins associated with extracellular vesicles from brains of aged mice. 	Increased levels of extracellular matrix proteins in extracellular vesicles from brains of aged mice.	Aging, Extracellular matrix, Extracellular vesicles, LCMS, Mouse Model	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are secreted by all major cell types of the brain, providing a mode of intercellular communication and a pathway for disposal of cellular debris. EVs help maintain healthy brain function, but may also contribute to diseases affecting the brain. EVs might contribute to aging of the brain, as aging-related processes such as inflammation and cellular senescence may alter EV cargo, promoting further inflammation and senescence. However, the effects of aging on brain EVs and the function of EVs in the aging brain remain poorly understood. To address this question, we measured the levels and protein cargo of EVs isolated from the brains of 4-, 12-, and 22-month-old C57BL/6J mice. We detected no changes in EV levels, but observed age-dependent changes in EV proteins. EV fractions from aged (22 month old) brains contained higher levels of extracellular matrix proteins than EV fractions from young (4 month old) brains, with intermediate levels in 12-month-old brains. Specifically, EV fractions from aged mice contained elevated levels of hyaluronan and proteoglycan link proteins 1 and 2 and several chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs). Analysis of extracellular matrix in several brain regions of aged mice revealed increased immunolabeling for the CSPG aggrecan, but reduced labeling with Wisteria floribunda agglutinin, which binds to chondroitin sulfate side chains of CSPGs. These data are consistent with prior studies showing changes to the composition of extracellular matrix in aged brains, and indicate a novel association of EVs with changes in the extracellular matrix of the aging brain.
PXD041599	39379461	Secondary products and molecular mechanism of calcium oxalate degradation by the strain Azospirillum sp. OX-1. 	Degradation of calcium oxalate by Azospirillum OX-1 and its molecular mechanism	Methane synthesis, Molecular regulatory mechanism, OCP pathway, Oxalate degrading bacteria	The oxalate-carbonate pathway (OCP) involves degradation of soil oxalate to carbonate. To exploit and manage this natural mineralization of assimilated atmospheric CO2 into stable carbonates, improved understanding of this complex biotransformation process is needed. A strain of oxalate-degrading bacteria, Azospirillum sp. OX-1, was isolated from soil, and its secondary products of calcium oxalate degradation were analyzed and characterized using SEM, XRD, TG/DTG-DTA and FTIR-spectroscopy. The molecular mechanism of calcium oxalate degradation was also analyzed using proteomics. The results showed, for the first time, that OX-1 could not only degrade calcium oxalate to calcium carbonate, but also that the process was accompanied by synthesis of methane. Proteomic analysis demonstrated that OX-1 has a dual enzyme system for calcium oxalate degradation, using formyl-CoA transferase (FRC) and thiamine pyrophosphate (ThDP)-dependent oxalyl-CoA decarboxylase (OXC) to form calcium carbonate. Up-regulated expression of enzymes related to methane synthesis was also detected during calcium oxalate degradation. Since methane is also a potent greenhouse gas, these new results suggest that the utility of exploiting the OCP to reduce atmospheric CO2 must be re-evaluated and that further studies should be conducted to reveal how widespread the methane producing capacity of strain OX-1 is in other bacteria and soil environments.
PXD048376	39379486	TRAF7 determines circadian period through ubiquitination and degradation of DBP. 	MS data on DBP-interacting proteins		D-site binding protein, DBP, is a clock-controlled transcription factor and drives daily rhythms of physiological processes through the regulation of an array of genes harboring a DNA binding motif, D-box. DBP protein levels show a circadian oscillation with an extremely robust peak/trough ratio, but it is elusive how the temporal pattern is regulated by post-translational regulation. In this study, we show that DBP protein levels are down-regulated by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Analysis using 19 dominant-negative forms of E2 enzymes have revealed that UBE2G1 and UBE2T mediate the degradation of DBP. A proteomic analysis of DBP-interacting proteins and database screening have identified Tumor necrosis factor Receptor-Associated Factor 7 (TRAF7), a RING-type E3 ligase, that forms a complex with UBE2G1 and/or UBE2T. Ubiquitination analysis have revealed that TRAF7 enhances K48-linked polyubiquitination of DBP in cultured cells. Overexpression of TRAF7 down-regulates DBP protein level, while knockdown of TRAF7 up-regulates DBP in cultured cells. Knockout of TRAF7 in NIH3T3 cells have revealed that TRAF7 mediates the time-of-the-day-dependent regulation of DBP levels. Furthermore, TRAF7 has a period-shortening effect on the cellular clock. Together, TRAF7 plays an important role in circadian clock oscillation through destabilization of DBP.
PXD048525	39379704	Prediction of brain metastasis development with DNA methylation signatures. 	Predictive modelling of brain metastasis development from cancer and non-invasive biomarker-based risk assessment leveraging DNA methylation signatures	Biomarkers, Brain metastases, DNA methylation, Lung adenocarcinoma	Brain metastases (BMs) are the most common and among the deadliest brain tumors. Currently, there are no reliable predictors of BM development from primary cancer, which limits early intervention. Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is the most common BM source and here we obtained 402 tumor and plasma samples from a large cohort of patients with LUAD with or without BM (n = 346). LUAD DNA methylation signatures were evaluated to build and validate an accurate model predicting BM development from LUAD, which was integrated with clinical factors to provide comprehensive patient-specific BM risk probabilities in a nomogram. Additionally, immune and cell interaction gene sets were differentially methylated at promoters in BM versus paired primary LUAD and had aligning dysregulation in the proteome. Immune cells were differentially abundant in BM versus LUAD. Finally, liquid biomarkers identified from methylated cell-free DNA sequenced in plasma were used to generate and validate accurate classifiers for early BM detection. Overall, LUAD methylomes can be leveraged to predict and noninvasively identify BM, moving toward improved patient outcomes with personalized treatment.
PXD051458	39380725	Obesity-driven changes in breast tissue exhibit a pro-angiogenic extracellular matrix signature. 	Breast tissue and cancer proteomics	BMI, breast cancer, extracellular matirx, tumor	Obesity has reached epidemic proportions in the United States, emerging as a risk factor for the onset of breast cancer and a harbinger of unfavorable outcomes [1], [2], [3]. Despite limited understanding of the precise mechanisms, both obesity and breast cancer are associated with extracellular matrix (ECM) rewiring [4], [5], [6]. Utilizing total breast tissue proteomics, we analyzed normal-weight (18.5 to < 25 kg/m(2)), overweight (25 to < 30 kg/m(2)), and obese (>=30 kg/m(2)) individuals to identify potential ECM modifying proteins for cancer development and acceleration. Obese individuals exhibited substantial ECM alterations, marked by increased basement membrane deposition, angiogenic signatures, and ECM-modifying proteins. Notably, the collagen IV crosslinking enzyme peroxidasin (PXDN) emerged as a potential mediator of the ECM changes in individuals with an elevated body mass index (BMI), strongly correlating with angiogenic and basement membrane signatures. Furthermore, glycan-binding proteins galectin-1 (LGALS1) and galectin-3 (LGALS3), which play crucial roles in matrix interactions and angiogenesis, also strongly correlate with ECM modifications. In breast cancer, elevated PXDN, LGALS1, and LGALS3 correlate with reduced relapse-free and distant-metastatic-free survival. These proteins were significantly associated with mesenchymal stromal cell markers, indicating adipocytes and fibroblasts may be the primary contributors of the obesity-related ECM changes. Our findings unveil a pro-angiogenic ECM signature in obese breast tissue, offering potential targets to inhibit breast cancer development and progression.
PXD051480	39381959	Molecular Characterization of Adhesives (Glue Lining Pastes) Used in Restoration. 	Molecular characterization of adhesives (glue lining pastes) used in restoration	Extraction, GC-MS, Glue lining pastes, Restoration	The molecular characterization of samples from works of art can provide valuable insights into the composition of ancient restoration materials and their conservation state. Here, we present a novel analytical protocol for the molecular characterization of a specific adhesive used in historical painting restoration, known as "glue lining pastes." Due to the high molecular complexity of these adhesives, we propose a multistep extraction protocol to recover and fractionate from a single microsample the three main classes of biomolecules contained in glue pastes (lipids, polysaccharides, and proteins). High-performance separation coupled with high-resolution mass spectrometry (MS) techniques were applied to the isolated fractions to identify specific components. The proposed method was optimized using test specimens of various traditional glue pastes applied to canvases and successfully applied to a historical glue paste sample from the 17th-century painting "La fuga in Egitto," part of the Pagliara collection at the University Suor Orsola Benincasa (Naples, Italy). The data collected in this work provide insights into the specific recipe used for adhesive preparation, supporting artistic and historical interpretations and contributing to a broader understanding of old restoration practices. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD051480.
PXD052666	39382389	Deep Proteome Analysis of Cerebrospinal Fluid from Pediatric Patients with Central Nervous System Cancer. 	Optimization of the workflow for deep CSF proteome analysis by enrichment of extracellular vesicles	Biomarkers, Cerebrospinal Fluid, Data Independent Acquisition, Exploris 480, Extracellular Vesicles, Ultracentrifugation	The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is a key matrix for discovery of biomarkers relevant for prognosis and the development of therapeutic targets in pediatric central nervous system malignancies. However, the wide range of protein concentrations and age-related differences in children makes such discoveries challenging. In addition, pediatric CSF samples are often sparse and first prioritized for clinical purposes. The present work focused on optimizing each step of the proteome analysis workflow to extract the most detailed proteome information possible from the limited CSF resources available for research purposes. The strategy included applying sequential ultracentrifugation to enrich for extracellular vesicles (EV) in addition to analysis of a small volume of raw CSF, which allowed quantification of 1351 proteins (+55% relative to raw CSF) from 400 muL CSF. When including a spectral library, a total of 2103 proteins (+240%) could be quantified. The workflow was optimized for CSF input volume, tryptic digestion method, gradient length, mass spectrometry data acquisition method and database search strategy to quantify as many proteins a possible. The fully optimized workflow included protein aggregation capture (PAC) digestion, paired with data-independent acquisition (DIA, 21 min gradient) and allowed 2989 unique proteins to be quantified from only 400 muL CSF, which is a 340% increase in proteins compared to analysis of a tryptic digest of raw CSF.
PXD050894	39382543	Multi-scale phenotyping of senescence-related changes in roots of Rapeseed in response to nitrate limitation. 	Evolution of the senescence-related proteome in rapeseed roots in response to nitrogen deficiency	lateral roots, nitrogen, proteases, rapeseed, root senescence, taproot	Root senescence remains largely unexplored. In this study, the temporality of the morphological, metabolic, and proteomic changes occurring with root aging were investigated, providing a comprehensive picture of the root senescence program. We found novel senescence-related markers for the characterization of the developmental stage of root tissues. The rapeseed root system is unique in that it consists of the taproot and lateral roots. Our study confirms that the taproot, which transiently accumulates large quantities of starch and proteins, is specifically dedicated to nutrient storage and remobilization, while the lateral roots are mainly dedicated to nutrient uptake. Proteomic data from the taproot and lateral roots highlight the different senescence-related events that control nutrient remobilization and nutrient uptake capacities. Both the proteome and enzyme activities revealed senescence-induced proteases and nucleotide catabolic enzymes that deserve attention as they may play important roles in nutrient remobilization efficiency in rapeseed roots. Taking advantage of publicly available transcriptomic and proteomic data on senescent Arabidopsis leaves, we have highlighted new lists of senescence-related proteins specific or common to root organs and/or leaves.
PXD053015	39383928	Cellular Resiliency and Survival of a Neuro-2a Cell Line Under Extreme Stress. 	Cellular Resiliency and Survival of a Neuro-2a Cell Line Under Extreme Stress	cell, cryostorage, dewar, resiliency, stress, survival, temperature, thawing	The study investigates the survival and recovery of Neuro-2a (N2a) cells following a cryogenic storage failure that exposed them to extreme stress conditions, such as hypoxia, hypothermia, and acute toxicity. Remarkably, a small fraction of the cells survived and eventually recovered. To understand the underlying resilience mechanisms, we created a model to replicate the dewar failure event and examined changes in phenotype, transcriptomics, proteomics, and mitochondrial activity of the surviving cells during recovery. The results revealed that the surviving cells initially displayed a stressed morphology, with irregular membranes and clustering. They showed increased expression of proteins related to DNA repair and chromatin modification pathways, as well as heightened mitochondrial function, shortly after the stress event. As recovery progressed, these stress-responsive pathways and mitochondrial activity normalized, indicating a return to a stable state. These findings suggest that an initial robust energetic state supports key stress-responsive pathways, facilitating cell survival and recovery after extreme stress. This work provides valuable insights into cellular resilience mechanisms, with potential implications for improving cell preservation and recovery in biomedical applications and developing therapeutic strategies for conditions involving cell damage and stress.
PXD050261	39383947	Profiling Cullin4-E3 ligases interactomes and their rewiring in influenza A virus infection. 	Profiling Cullin4-E3 ligases interactomes and their rewiring in influenza A virus infection	AP-MS, Q Exactive Plus, influenza virus	Understanding the integrated regulation of cellular processes during viral infection is crucial for developing host-targeted approaches. We have previously reported that an optimal in vitro infection by influenza A (IAV) requires three components of Cullin 4-RING E3 ubiquitin ligases (CRL4) complexes, namely the DDB1 adaptor and two Substrate Recognition Factors (SRF), DCAF11 and DCAF12L1, which mediate non-degradative poly-ubiquitination of the PB2 subunit of the viral polymerase. However, the impact of IAV infection on the CRL4 interactome remains elusive. Here, using Affinity Purification coupled with Mass Spectrometry (AP-MS) approaches, we identified cellular proteins interacting with these CRL4 components in IAV-infected and non-infected contexts. IAV infection induces significant modulations in protein interactions, resulting in a global loss of DDB1 and DCAF11 interactions, and an increase in DCAF12L1-associated proteins. The distinct rewiring of CRL4's associations upon infection impacted cellular proteins involved in protein folding, ubiquitination, translation, splicing, and stress responses. Using a split-nanoluciferase-based assay, we identified direct partners of CRL4 components and via siRNA-mediated silencing validated their role in IAV infection, representing potential substrates or regulators of CRL4 complexes. Our findings unravel the dynamic remodeling of the proteomic landscape of CRL4's E3 ubiquitin ligases during IAV infection, likely involved in shaping a cellular environment conducive to viral replication and offer potential for the exploration of future host-targeted antiviral therapeutic strategies.
PXD045611	39383988	Environmental signatures and fish proteomics: a multidisciplinary study to identify the major stressors in estuaries located in French agricultural watersheds. 	Proteomic analysis of livers from the European flounder Platichthys flesus from several french estuaries.	animal, estuary, fish, pollution, river, sentinel, stress, toxicants	Watersheds and estuaries are impacted by multiple anthropogenic stressors that affect their biodiversity and functioning. Assessing their ecological quality has consequently remained challenging for scientists and stakeholders. In this paper, we propose a multidisciplinary approach to identify the stressors in seven small French estuaries located in agricultural watersheds. We collected data from landscape (geography, hydrobiology) to estuary (pollutant chemistry) and fish individual scales (environmental signatures, proteomics). This integrative approach focused on the whole hydrosystems, from river basins to estuaries. To characterize each watershed, we attempted to determine the land use considering geographic indicators (agricultural and urbanised surfaces) and landscape patterns (hedges density and riparian vegetation). Juveniles of European flounder (Platichthys flesus) were captured in September, after an average residence of five summer months in the estuary. Analyses of water, sediments and biota allowed to determine the concentrations of dissolved inorganic nitrogen species, pesticides and trace elements in the systems. Environmental signatures were also measured in flounder tissues. These environmental parameters were used to establish a typology of the watersheds. Furthermore, data from proteomics on fish liver were combined with environmental signatures to determine the responses of fish to stressors in their environments. Differential protein abundances highlighted a dysregulation related to the detoxification of xenobiotics (mainly pesticides) in agricultural watersheds, characterized by intensive cereal and vegetable crops and high livestock. Omics also revealed a dysregulation of proteins associated with the response to hypoxia and heat stress in some estuaries. Furthermore, we highlighted a dysregulation of proteins involved in urea cycle, immunity and metabolism of fatty acids in several systems. Finally, the combination of environmental and molecular signatures appears to be a relevant method to identify the major stressors operating within hydrosystems.
PXD055972	39384753	AXIN1 boosts antiviral response through IRF3 stabilization and induced phase separation. 	AXIN1 boosts antiviral response through IRF3 stabilization and induced phase separation	AXIN1, IRF3	Axis inhibition protein 1 (AXIN1), a scaffold protein interacting with various critical molecules, plays a vital role in determining cell fate. However, its impact on the antiviral innate immune response remains largely unknown. Here, we identify that AXIN1 acts as an effective regulator of antiviral innate immunity against both DNA and RNA virus infections. In the resting state, AXIN1 maintains the stability of the transcription factor interferon regulatory factor 3 (IRF3) by preventing p62-mediated autophagic degradation of IRF3. This is achieved by recruiting ubiquitin-specific peptidase 35 (USP35), which removes lysine (K) 48-linked ubiquitination at IRF3 K366. Upon virus infection, AXIN1 undergoes a phase separation triggered by phosphorylated TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1). This leads to increased phosphorylation of IRF3 and a boost in IFN-I production. Moreover, KYA1797K, a small molecule that binds to the AXIN1 RGS domain, enhances the AXIN1-IRF3 interaction and promotes the elimination of various highly pathogenic viruses. Clinically, patients with HBV-associated hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) who show reduced AXIN1 expression in pericarcinoma tissues have low overall and disease-free survival rates, as well as higher HBV levels in their blood. Overall, our findings reveal how AXIN1 regulates IRF3 signaling and phase separation-mediated antiviral immune responses, underscoring the potential of the AXIN1 agonist KYA1797K as an effective antiviral agent.
PXD051481	39385462	Mucin-driven ecological interactions in an in vitro synthetic community of human gut microbes. 	Mucin drives human gut microbial ecological interactions in an in vitro synthetic community	Gut microbiota, cross-feeding, ecological interactions, mucin, synthetic community	Specific human gut microbes inhabit the outer mucus layer of the gastrointestinal tract. Certain residents of this niche can degrade the large and complex mucin glycoproteins that constitute this layer and utilise the degradation products for their metabolism. In turn, this microbial mucin degradation drives specific microbiological ecological interactions in the human gut mucus layer. However, the exact nature of these interactions remains unknown. In this study, we designed and studied an in vitro mucin-degrading synthetic community that included mucin O-glycan degraders and cross-feeding microorganisms by monitoring community composition and dynamics through a combination of 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing and qPCR, mucin glycan degradation with PGC-LC-MS/MS, production of mucin-degrading enzymes and other proteins through metaproteomics, and metabolite production with HPLC. We demonstrated that specialist and generalist mucin O-glycan degraders stably co-exist and found evidence for cross-feeding relationships. Cross-feeding on the products of mucin degradation by other gut microbes resulted in butyrate production, hydrogenotrophic acetogenesis, sulfate reduction and methanogenesis. Metaproteomics analysis revealed that mucin glycan degraders Akkermansia muciniphila, Bacteroides spp. and Ruminococcus torques together contributed 92% of the total mucin O-glycan degrading enzyme pool of this community. Furthermore, comparative proteomics showed that in response to cultivation in a community compared to monoculture, mucin glycan degraders increased carbohydrate-active enzymes whereas we also found indications for niche differentiation. These results confirm the complexity of mucin-driven microbiological ecological interactions and the intricate role of carbohydrate-active enzymes in the human gut mucus layer.
PXD052651	39385682	Phloem sap from melon plants contains extracellular vesicles that carry active proteasomes which increase in response to aphid infestation. 	Phloem sap extracellular vesicles carry active proteasomes that increase in response to aphid infestation	Aphid, Extracellular vesicles, Melon, Phloem sap, Proteasome	The morphogenesis of higher plants requires communication among distant organs throughout vascular tissues (xylem and phloem). Numerous investigations have demonstrated that phloem also act as a distribution route for signalling molecules being observed that different macromolecules translocated by the sap, including nucleic acids and proteins, change under stress situations. The participation of extracellular vesicles (EVs) in this communication has been suggested, although little is known about their role. In fact, in the last decade, the presence of EVs in plants has originated a great controversy, where major concerns arose from their origin, isolation methods, and even the appropriate nomenclature for plant nanovesicles. Phloem sap exudates from melon plants, either aphid-free or infested with Aphis gossypii, were collected by stem incision. After sap concentration (Amicon), phloem EVs (PhlEVs) were isolated by size exclusion chromatography. PhlEVs were characterised using Nanoparticle Tracking Analysis, Transmission electron microscopy and proteomic analysis. Here we confirm the presence of EVs in phloem sap in vivo and the detection of changes in the particles/protein ratio and composition of PhlEVs in response to insect feeding, revealing the presence of typical defence proteins in their cargo as well as components of the proteasome complex. PhlEVs from infested plants showed lower particles/protein ratio and almost two times more proteolytic activity than PhlEVs from aphid-free plants. In both cases, such activity was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by the proteasome inhibitor MG132. Our results suggest that plants may use this mechanism to prepare themselves to receive infectious agents and open up the possibility of an evolutionary conserved mechanism of defence against pathogens/stresses in eukaryotic organisms.
PXD054548	39386562	Altered mRNA transport and local translation in iNeurons with RNA binding protein knockdown. 	Altered mRNA transport and local translation in iNeurons with RNA binding protein knockdown	iPSC derived iNeurons	Neurons rely on mRNA transport and local translation to facilitate rapid protein synthesis in processes far from the cell body. These processes allow precise spatial and temporal control of translation and are mediated by RNA binding proteins (RBPs), including those known to be associated with neurodegenerative diseases. Here, we use proteomics, transcriptomics, and microscopy to investigate the impact of RBP knockdown on mRNA transport and local translation in iPSC-derived neurons. We find thousands of transcripts enriched in neurites and that many of these transcripts are locally translated, possibly due to the shorter length of transcripts in neurites. Loss of frontotemporal dementia/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FTD/ALS)-associated RBPs TDP- 43 and hnRNPA1 lead to distinct alterations in the neuritic proteome and transcriptome. TDP-43 knockdown (KD) leads to increased neuritic mRNA and translation. In contrast, hnRNPA1 leads to increased neuritic mRNA, but not translation, and more moderate effects on local mRNA profiles, possibly due to compensation by hnRNPA3. These results highlight the crucial role of FTD/ALS-associated RBPs in mRNA transport and local translation in neurons and the importance of these processes in neuron health and disease.
PXD053494	39386644	irCLIP-RNP and Re-CLIP reveal patterns of dynamic protein associations on RNA. 	irCLIP-RNP reveals patterns of dynamic protein associations on RNA	CLIP, MS, RBP, RNA binding proteins, crisslinking immunoprecipitation	RNA binding proteins ( RBPs ) control varied processes, including RNA splicing, stability, transport, and translation (1-3) . Dysfunctional RNA-RBP interactions contribute to the pathogenesis of human disease (1,4,5) , however, characterizing the nature and dynamics of multiprotein assemblies on RNA has been challenging. To address this, non-isotopic ligation-based ultraviolet crosslinking immunoprecipitation (6) was combined with mass spectrometry ( irCLIP-RNP ) to identify RNA-dependent associated proteins ( RDAPs ) co-bound to RNA with any RBP of interest. irCLIP-RNP defined landscapes of multimeric protein assemblies on RNA, uncovering previously unknown patterns of RBP-RNA associations, including cell-type-selective combinatorial relationships between RDAPs and primary RBPs. irCLIP-RNP also defined dynamic RDAP remodeling in response to epidermal growth factor ( EGF ), uncovering EGF-induced recruitment of UPF1 adjacent to HNRNPC to effect splicing surveillance of cell proliferation mRNAs. To identify the RNAs simultaneously co-bound by multiple studied RBPs, a sequential immunoprecipitation irCLIP ( Re-CLIP ) method was also developed. Re-CLIP confirmed binding relationships seen in irCLIP-RNP and detected simultaneous HNRNPC and UPF1 co-binding on RND3 and DDX3X mRNAs. irCLIP-RNP and Re-CLIP provide a framework to identify and characterize dynamic RNA-protein assemblies in living cells.
PXD054882	39386761	Sorafenib induces cachexia by impeding transcriptional signaling of the SET1/MLL complex on muscle-specific genes. 	Sorafenib induces muscle wasting by disrupting the activity of distinct chromatin regulators	Tyrosine kinase inhibitors, cachexia, mitochondrial respiration, muscle contraction, sarcomere organization, sorafenib	Chemotherapeutics used in cancer therapy are often linked to muscle wasting or cachexia. Insights into the molecular basis of chemotherapy-induced cachexia is essential to improve treatment strategies. Here, we demonstrated that Sorafenib-tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) class of chemotherapeutic agents-induced cachexia. System-wide analyses revealed that Sorafenib alters the global transcriptional program and proteostasis in muscle cells. Mechanistically, Sorafenib treatment reduced active epigenetic mark H3K4 methylation on distinct muscle-specific genes by impeding chromatin association of SET1A-catalytic component of the SET1/MLL histone methyltransferase complex. This mechanism favored transcriptional disorientation that led to disrupted sarcomere assembly, calcium homeostasis and mitochondrial respiration. Consequently, the contractile ability of muscle cells was severely compromised. Interestingly, the other prominent TKIs Nilotinib and Imatinib did not exert similar effects on muscle cell physiology. Collectively, we identified an unanticipated transcriptional mechanism underlying Sorafenib-induced cachexia. Our findings hold the potential to strategize therapy regimens to minimize chemotherapy-induced cachexia.
PXD033223	39387272	The DNA Damage Repair Function of Fission Yeast CK1 Involves Targeting Arp8, a Subunit of the INO80 Chromatin Remodeling Complex. 	CK1 promotes double-strand break repair in fission yeast	CK1, S. pombe, casein kinase 1, kinase regulation, kinase substrates	The CK1 family are conserved serine/threonine kinases with numerous substrates and cellular functions. The fission yeast CK1 orthologues Hhp1 and Hhp2 were first characterized as regulators of DNA repair, but the mechanism(s) by which CK1 activity promotes DNA repair had not been investigated. Here, we found that deleting Hhp1 and Hhp2 or inhibiting CK1 catalytic activities in yeast or in human cells increased double-strand breaks (DSBs). The primary pathways to repair DSBs, homologous recombination and nonhomologous end joining, were both less efficient in cells lacking Hhp1 and Hhp2 activity. To understand how Hhp1 and Hhp2 promote DNA damage repair, we identified new substrates of these enzymes using quantitative phosphoproteomics. We confirmed that Arp8, a component of the INO80 chromatin remodeling complex, is a bona fide substrate of Hhp1 and Hhp2 important for DNA repair. Our data suggest that Hhp1 and Hhp2 facilitate DNA repair by phosphorylating multiple substrates, including Arp8.
PXD055081	39389361	Proteomic characterization of ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 19 deficient cells reveals a role for USP19 in secretion of lysosomal proteins. 	Proteomic characterization of ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 19 deficient cells reveals a role for USP19 in secretion of lysosomal proteins	cathepsins., legumain, lysosome, secretome, ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 19, unconventional secretion	Ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase 19 (USP19) is a unique deubiquitinase (DUB), characterized by multiple variants generated by alternative splicing. Several variants bear a C-terminal transmembrane domain that anchors them to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Other than regulating protein stability by preventing proteasome degradation, USP19 has been reported to rescue substrates from ER-associated protein degradation (ERAD) in a catalytic-independent manner, promote autophagy and address proteins to lysosomal degradation via endosomal microautophagy. USP19 has recently emerged as the protein responsible for the unconventional secretion of misfolded proteins including Parkinson's disease-associated protein alpha-synuclein. Despite mounting evidence that USP19 plays crucial roles in several biological processes, the underlying mechanisms are unclear due to lack of information on the physiological substrates of USP19. Herein, we used high-resolution quantitative proteomics to analyze changes in the secretome and cell proteome induced by loss of USP19 to identify proteins whose secretion or turnover is regulated by USP19. We found that ablation of USP19 induced significant proteomic alterations both in and out of the cell. Loss of USP19 impaired the release of several lysosomal proteins, including legumain (LGMN) and several cathepsins. In order to understand the underlaying mechanism, we dissected the USP19-regulated secretion of LGMN in several cell types. We found that LGMN was not a DUB substrate of USP19 and that its USP19-dependent release did not require their direct interaction. LGMN secretion occurred by a mechanism that involved the Golgi apparatus, autophagosome formation and lysosome function. This mechanism resembled the recently described "lysosomal exocytosis", by which lysosomal hydrolases are secreted, when ubiquitination of p62 is increased in cells lacking deubiquitinases such as USP15 and USP17. In conclusion, our proteomic characterization of USP19 has identified a collection of proteins in the secretome and within the cell that are regulated by USP19, which link USP19 to secretion of lysosomal proteins, including LGMN.
PXD050799	39389524	Phosphoproteome modulation by nucleoside diphosphate kinase affects photosynthesis & stress tolerance of Nostoc PCC 7120. 	Modulation of abiotic stress tolerance and photosynthesis of cyanobacterium Nostoc PCC 7120 through altered phosphoproteome mediated by Nucleoside diphosphate kinase	Nostoc, Nuceloside diphosphate kinase, Phosphoproteomics, Photosynthesis, Ser/Thr Kinase, Stress tolerance	Nucleoside diphosphate kinase (Ndk/NDK/NDPK) is known to possess pleiotropic functions, one of which is that as a protein kinase, and has been shown to be involved in stress tolerance in plants. To assess its role in the cyanobacterium Nostoc PCC 7120, which is hitherto unreported, recombinant strain overexpressing Ndk, Anndk(+) was generated. Phosphoproteomic analysis of Anndk(+) and its comparison with that of the vector control, AnpAM, revealed differential phosphorylation at S/T/Y sites of proteins belonging to varied functional groups, with over 17 % phosphoproteins involved in photosynthesis. A total of 177 phosphopeptides and 117 phosphoproteins were identified, including newly identified phosphopeptides in any cyanobacteria. Compared to AnpAM, the Anndk(+) cells exhibited (i) lower photosynthetic efficiency and electron transport rate at low PAR (photosynthetically active radiation), (ii) no change in photochemical quenching across PAR, (iii) but distinct non-photochemical quenching [zero Y(NPQ) and high Y(NO) in Anndk(+) and high Y(NPQ) and low (NO) in AnpAM], and (iv) increased tolerance to gamma-radiation, oxidative, salt and DCMU stresses. The observed modulation of phosphoproteome linked to physiological changes upon overexpression of Ndk in Nostoc could be a combination of direct protein kinase activity of Ndk and/or indirectly through other protein kinases and phosphatases whose phosphorylation status is mediated by Ndk. This is the first report on a direct correlation between Ndk levels, phosphorylation status of proteins and stress tolerance in any cyanobacteria.
PXD052578	39389988	A RANKL-UCHL1-sCD13 negative feedback loop limits osteoclastogenesis in subchondral bone to prevent osteoarthritis progression. 	Proteomic analysis of UCHL1 conditional knockout mice	UCHL1	Abnormal subchondral bone remodeling plays a pivotal role in the progression of osteoarthritis (OA). Here, we analyzed subchondral bone samples from OA patients and observed a significant upregulation of ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1) specifically in subchondral bone osteoclasts. Notably, we found a strong correlation between UCHL1 expression and osteoclast activity in the subchondral bone during OA progression in both human and murine models. Conditional UCHL1 deletion in osteoclast precursors exacerbated OA progression, while its overexpression, mediated by adeno-associated virus 9, alleviated this process in male mice. Mechanistically, RANKL stimulates UCHL1 expression in osteoclast precursors, subsequently stabilizing CD13, augmenting soluble CD13 (sCD13) release, and triggering an autocrine inhibitory effect on the MAPK pathway, thereby suppressing osteoclast formation. These findings unveil a previously unidentified negative feedback loop, RANKL-UCHL1-sCD13, that modulates osteoclast formation and presents a potential therapeutic target for OA.
PXD056292	39390150	SMARCD1 is an essential expression-restricted metastasis modifier. 	Protein Interactors of SMARCD1	SMARCD1, interactome	Breast cancer is the most frequently diagnosed cancer worldwide, constituting 15% of cases in 2023. The predominant cause of breast cancer-related mortality is metastasis, and a lack of metastasis-targeted therapies perpetuates dismal outcomes for late-stage patients. By using meiotic genetics to study inherited transcriptional network regulation, we have identified, to the best of our knowledge, a new class of "essential expression-restricted" genes as potential candidates for metastasis-targeted therapeutics. Building upon previous work implicating the CCR4-NOT RNA deadenylase complex in metastasis, we demonstrate that RNA-binding proteins NANOS1, PUM2, and CPSF4 also regulate metastatic potential. Using various models and clinical data, we pinpoint Smarcd1 mRNA as a target of all three RNA-BPs. Strikingly, both high and low expression of Smarcd1 correlate with positive clinical outcomes, while intermediate expression significantly reduces the probability of survival. Applying the theory of "essential genes" from evolution, we identify 50 additional genes that require precise expression levels for metastasis to occur. Specifically, small perturbations in Smarcd1 expression significantly reduce metastasis in mouse models and alter splicing programs relevant to the ER+/HER2-enriched breast cancer. Identification subtype-specific essential expression-restricted metastasis modifiers introduces a novel class of genes that, when therapeutically "nudged" in either direction, may significantly improve late-stage breast cancer patients.
PXD056345	39392299	GingisREX: A Complementary Enzyme for the Detection of Bacterial Proteins. 	GingisREX: A complimentary enzyme for the detection of bacterial proteins	E-coli, LC-MS	Reliable enzymatic digestion underscores successful mass-spectrometry-based proteomics experiments. In this study, we compare the use of the arginine-specific protease, GingisREX, against a more traditional approach in the identification of Escherichia coli proteins. An increased number of protein identifications were noted when GingisREX was used compared to a trypsin/lys-C mixture. This improvement was attributed to the generation of fewer peptides per protein, resulting in a simpler peptide mixture. Furthermore, GingisREX exhibited increased digestion efficiency, fewer missed cleavages, and improved MS/MS data quality for higher molecular weight peptides. The data here establish GingisREX to be a protease complementary to trypsin for enhanced detection of bacterial proteins. With further optimization, GingisREX could prove to be an effective alternative to trypsin for identifying host cell proteins in biotherapeutics.
PXD049343	39392593	Proteomic Analysis Reveals Major Proteins and Pathways That Mediate the Effect of 17-beta-Estradiol in Cell Division and Apoptosis in Breast Cancer MCF7 Cells. 	Proteomic Analysis Reveals the Major Proteins and Pathways that Mediate the Effect of 17-beta-Estradiol in Cell Division and Apoptosis in Breast Cancer MCF7 Cells	Quantitative proteomics, SILAC, apoptosis., breast cancer, cell division, estrogen, proteome profiling	Despite extensive research, the genes/proteins and pathways responsible for the physiological effects of estrogen remain elusive. In this study, we determined the effect of estrogen on global protein expression in breast cancer MCF7 cells using a proteomic method. The expression of 77 cytosolic, 74 nuclear, and 81 membrane/organelle proteins was significantly altered by 17-beta-estradiol (E2). Protein enrichment analyses suggest that E2 may stimulate cell division primarily by promoting the G1 to S phase transition and advancing the G2/M checkpoint. The effect of E2 on cell survival was complex, as it could simultaneously enhance and inhibit apoptosis. Bioinformatics analysis suggests that E2 may enhance apoptosis by promoting the accumulation of the pore-forming protein Bax in the mitochondria and inhibit apoptosis by activating the PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling pathway. We verified the activation of the PI3K signaling and the accumulation of Bax in the membrane/organelle fraction in E2-treated cells using immunoblotting. Treatment of MCF7 cells with E2 and the PI3K inhibitor Ly294002 significantly enhanced apoptosis compared to those treated with E2 alone, suggesting that combining estrogen with a PI3K inhibitor could be a promising strategy for treating ERalpha-positive breast cancer. Interestingly, many of the E2-upregulated proteins contained the HEAT, KH, and RRM domains.
PXD049050	39392888	Mechanism of degrader-targeted protein ubiquitinability. 	Structural basis of PROTAC-induced target ubiquitination mechanism  - verification of ubiquitin UBE2R1 (C93K) loading assay	E2, UBE2R1, mimetic, structural, ubiquitin	Small-molecule degraders of disease-driving proteins offer a clinically proven modality with enhanced therapeutic efficacy and potential to tackle previously undrugged targets. Stable and long-lived degrader-mediated ternary complexes drive fast and profound target degradation; however, the mechanisms by which they affect target ubiquitination remain elusive. Here, we show cryo-EM structures of the VHL Cullin 2 RING E3 ligase with the degrader MZ1 directing target protein Brd4(BD2) toward UBE2R1-ubiquitin, and Lys(456) at optimal positioning for nucleophilic attack. In vitro ubiquitination and mass spectrometry illuminate a patch of favorably ubiquitinable lysines on one face of Brd4(BD2), with cellular degradation and ubiquitinomics confirming the importance of Lys(456) and nearby Lys(368)/Lys(445), identifying the "ubiquitination zone." Our results demonstrate the proficiency of MZ1 in positioning the substrate for catalysis, the favorability of Brd4(BD2) for ubiquitination by UBE2R1, and the flexibility of CRL2 for capturing suboptimal lysines. We propose a model for ubiquitinability of degrader-recruited targets, providing a mechanistic blueprint for further rational drug design.
PXD055420	39393440	Identification of salivary proteins in the rice leaf folder Cnaphalocrocis medinalis by transcriptome and LC-MS/MS analyses. 	Rice leaf folder oral secretion LC-MS/MS	Rice leaf folder, oral secretion	Salivary proteins in the oral secretion (OS) of chewing insects play a crucial role in insect-plant interactions during feeding. The rice leaf folder Cnaphalocrocis medinalis, a notorious pest in global rice production, triggers defense responses during feeding, but little is known about its salivary proteins. In this study, we confirmed that C. medinalis releases OS during feeding. By employing transcriptomic analysis and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectroscopy (LC-MS/MS), we examined the salivary proteins from labial salivary glands and OS from the gut of C. medinalis. A total of 14,397 genes were expressed at the RNA level and 229 salivary proteins were identified. Comparative analysis with other 25 arthropod species revealed that 43 proteins were unique to C. medinalis. Expression pattern analysis revealed that most of the selected genes were highly expressed in the gut and the larval stages (4th-5th instar). These findings provide a comprehensive resource for future functional studies of salivary proteins, offering new insights into the molecular mechanisms by which C. medinalis modulates plant defenses and potential applications in pest management.
PXD049416	39394082	Interactions between Helcococcus kunzii and Staphylococcus aureus: How a commensal bacterium modulates the virulence and metabolism of a pathogen in a chronic wound in vitro model. 	Interactions between H. kunzii and S. aureus: How a commensal bacterium modulates the virulence and metabolism of a pathogen in a chronic wound model	bacterial interaction	BACKGROUND: Staphylococcus aureus is the predominant pathogen isolated in diabetic foot infections. Recently, the skin commensal bacterium, Helcococcus kunzii, was found to modulate the virulence of this pathogen in an in vivo model. This study aims to elucidate the molecular mechanisms underlying the interaction between these two bacterial species, using a proteomic approach. RESULTS: Our results reveal that H. kunzii can coexist and proliferate alongside S. aureus in a Chronic Wound Media (CWM), thereby mimicking an in vitro chronic wound environment. We noted that the secreted proteome of H. kunzii induced a transcriptional effect on S. aureus virulence, resulting in a decrease in the expression level of agrA, a gene involved in quorum sensing. The observed effect could be ascribed to specific proteins secreted by H. kunzii including polysaccharide deacetylase, peptidoglycan DD-metalloendopeptidase, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, trypsin-like peptidase, and an extracellular solute-binding protein. These proteins potentially interact with the agr system, influencing S. aureus virulence. Additionally, the virulence of S. aureus was notably affected by modifications in iron-related pathways and components of cell wall architecture in the presence of H. kunzii. Furthermore, the overall metabolism of S. aureus was reduced when cocultured with H. kunzii. CONCLUSION: Future research will focus on elucidating the role of these excreted factors in modulating virulence.
PXD052294	39394169	Ubiquitin-specific protease 10 determines colorectal cancer outcome by modulating epidermal growth factor signaling via inositol polyphosphate-4-phosphatase type IIB. 	USP10 knockout in human HCT116  cells	USP10, colorectal cancer	Although there have been advances in understanding colorectal cancer (CRC) pathogenesis, significant gaps still exist, highlighting the need for deeper insights. Dysregulated protein homeostasis, including perturbations in the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) pathway, remains a focal point in CRC pathogenesis. Within this context, the roles of ubiquitin ligases and deubiquitinases have attracted attention, but exploration of their precise contributions is still in its early stages. To address this gap, we investigated the involvement of the deubiquitinase USP10 in CRC. Our in vitro and in vivo study reveals a new paradigm in CRC biology and unravels a novel mechanistic axis, demonstrating for the first time the involvement of inositol polyphosphate 4-phosphatase type II B (INPP4B) in USP10-mediated CRC modulation. Specifically, our study demonstrates that the loss of USP10 results in reduced sensitivity to the EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors gefitinib and osimertinib. This is accompanied by a decrease in the activation of the AKT1/PKB pathway upon EGF stimulation, which is mediated by INPP4B. Importantly, in vivo xenograft experiments validate these findings and highlight the crucial role of USP10, particularly in conjunction with INPP4B, in driving CRC progression. The findings enhance our understanding of CRC pathobiology and reveal a new regulatory axis involving USP10 and INPP4B in CRC progression. This unique insight identifies USP10 and INPP4B as potential therapeutic targets in CRC.
PXD048912	39394507	Extracellular plant subtilases dampen cold-shock peptide elicitor levels. 	Release of immunogenic peptides from precursor protein CspD	CspD, apoplastic fluid, immunogenic peptide	Recognizing pathogen-associated molecular patterns on the cell surface is crucial for plant immunity. The proteinaceous nature of many of these patterns suggests that secreted proteases play important roles in their formation and stability. Here we demonstrate that the apoplastic subtilase SBT5.2a inactivates the immunogenicity of cold-shock proteins (CSPs) of the bacterial plant pathogen Pseudomonas syringae by cleaving within the immunogenic csp22 epitope. Consequently, mutant plants lacking SBT5.2a activity retain higher levels of csp22, leading to enhanced immune responses and reduced pathogen growth. SBT5.2 sensitivity is influenced by sequence variation surrounding the cleavage site and probably extends to CSPs from other bacterial species. These findings suggest that variations in csp22 stability among bacterial pathogens are a crucial factor in plant-bacteria interactions and that pathogens exploit plant proteases to avoid pattern recognition.
PXD055224	39395788	Development of LC-FAIMS-MS and its application to lipidomics study of Acinetobacter baumannii infection. 	Development of LC-FAIMS-MS and its application to lipidomics study of Acinetobacter baumannii infection	Acinetobacter baumannii, FAIMS, LC-MS, Lipidomics, Serum	The recent advances in mass spectrometry (MS) technologies have enabled comprehensive lipid profiling in biological samples. However, the robustness and efficiency of MS-based lipidomics is compromised by the complexity of biological samples. High-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) is a technology that can continuously transmit one type of ion, independent of mass-to-charge ratio. Here we present the development and application of LC-FAIMS-MS/MS based platform for untargeted lipidomics. We used 3 optimally balanced compensation voltages, i.e., 29 V, 34 V and 39 V, to analyse all subclasses of glycerophospholipids. The reproducibility of the method was evaluated using reference standards. The reproducibility of retention times ranged from 0.9 to 1.5 % RSD; whereas RSD values of 5-10 % were observed for peak areas. More importantly, the coupling of a FAIMS device can significantly improve the robustness and efficiency. We exploited this NPLC-FAIMS-HRMS to analyze the serum lipid profiles in mice infected intranasally with Acinetobacter baumannii. The temporal profiles of serum lipids after A. baumannii inoculation were obtained for 4 h, 8 h and 24 h. We found that nearly all ether PC and ether PE lipids were significantly decreased 8 h after inoculation. The resultant volcano plot illustrated the distribution of 28 increased and 28 decreased lipid species in mouse sera 24 h after inoculation. We also found that a single ether PE composition can comprise multiple isomeric structures, and the relative abundance of each isomer could be quantified using the newly developed NPLC-FAIMS-PRM method.
PXD051581	39396041	Principles of paralog-specific targeted protein degradation engaging the C-degron E3 KLHDC2. 	Principles of isoform-specific targeted protein degradation engaging the C-degron E3 KLHDC2	BRD3, KLHDC2, ProTAC, TPD, ubiquitin	PROTAC(R) (proteolysis-targeting chimera) molecules induce proximity between an E3 ligase and protein-of-interest (POI) to target the POI for ubiquitin-mediated degradation. Cooperative E3-PROTAC-POI complexes have potential to achieve neo-substrate selectivity beyond that established by POI binding to the ligand alone. Here, we extend the collection of ubiquitin ligases employable for cooperative ternary complex formation to include the C-degron E3 KLHDC2. Ligands were identified that engage the C-degron binding site in KLHDC2, subjected to structure-based improvement, and linked to JQ1 for BET-family neo-substrate recruitment. Consideration of the exit vector emanating from the ligand engaged in KLHDC2's U-shaped degron-binding pocket enabled generation of SJ46421, which drives formation of a remarkably cooperative, paralog-selective ternary complex with BRD3(BD2). Meanwhile, screening pro-drug variants enabled surmounting cell permeability limitations imposed by acidic moieties resembling the KLHDC2-binding C-degron. Selectivity for BRD3 compared to other BET-family members is further manifested in ubiquitylation in vitro, and prodrug version SJ46420-mediated degradation in cells. Selectivity is also achieved for the ubiquitin ligase, overcoming E3 auto-inhibition to engage KLHDC2, but not the related KLHDC1, KLHDC3, or KLHDC10 E3s. In sum, our study establishes neo-substrate-specific targeted protein degradation via KLHDC2, and provides a framework for developing selective PROTAC protein degraders employing C-degron E3 ligases.
PXD055348	39397005	HEV ORF2 protein-antibody complex deposits are associated with glomerulonephritis in hepatitis E with reduced immune status. 	A HEV ORF2 protein-mediated mechanism of hepatitis E-associated kidney disease	Human liver and kidney samples, infected or not with hepatitis E virus. Laser-captured samples	Hepatitis E virus (HEV) infection, one of the most common forms of hepatitis worldwide, is often associated with extrahepatic, particularly renal, manifestations. However, the underlying mechanisms are incompletely understood. Here, we report the development of a de novo immune complex-mediated glomerulonephritis (GN) in a kidney transplant recipient with chronic hepatitis E. Applying immunostaining, electron microscopy, and mass spectrometry after laser-capture microdissection, we show that GN develops in parallel with increasing glomerular deposition of a non-infectious, genome-free and non-glycosylated HEV open reading frame 2 (ORF2) capsid protein. No productive HEV infection of kidney cells is detected. Patients with acute hepatitis E display similar but less pronounced deposits. Our results establish a link between the production of HEV ORF2 protein and the development of hepatitis E-associated GN in the immunocompromised state. The formation of glomerular IgG-HEV ORF2 immune complexes discovered here provides a potential mechanistic explanation of how the hepatotropic HEV can cause variable renal manifestations. These findings directly provide a tool for etiology-based diagnosis of hepatitis E-associated GN as a distinct entity and suggest therapeutic implications.
PXD041287	39398425	Identification of Key Factors in Cartilage Tissue During the Progression of Osteoarthritis Using a Non-targeted Metabolomics Strategy. 	Identification of key factors in cartilage tissue during the progression of osteoarthritis using a non-targeted metabolomics strategy	Kellegren-Lawrence grade, Non-targeted metabolomics, Osteoarthritis, Progression	This research was to reveal the key factors in the progression of osteoarthritis (OA) using non-targeted metabolomics and to find targeted therapies for patients with OA. Twenty-two patients with knee OA scheduled for total knee arthroplasty were divided into two groups: Kellgren-Lawrence (KL) grade 3 (n = 16) and grade 4 (n = 6), according to plain X-rays of the knee. After the operation, the cartilages of femur samples were analyzed using non-targeted metabolomics. When compared with grade 3 patients, the levels of choline, 2-propylpiperidine, rhamnose, and monomethyl glutaric acid were higher; while 1-methylhistamine, sphingomyelin (SM) (d18:1/14:0), zeranol, 3- (4-hydroxyphenyl)-1-propanol, 5-aminopentanamide, dihydrouracil, 2-hydroxypyridine, and 3-amino-2-piperidone were lower in grade 4 patients. Furthermore, some metabolic pathways were found to be significantly different in two groups such as the pantothenate and coenzyme A (CoA) biosynthesis pathway, the glycerophospholipid metabolism pathway, histidine metabolism pathway, lysine degradation pathway, glycine, serine and threonine metabolism pathway, fructose and mannose metabolism pathway, the pyrimidine metabolism pathway, and beta-alanine metabolism pathway. This work used non-targeted metabolomics and screened out differential metabolites and metabolic pathways, providing a reliable theoretical basis for further study of specific markers and their specific pathways in the progression of OA. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s43657-023-00123-z.
PXD053804	39402218	Proteomic analysis of CD29+ Muller cells reveals metabolic reprogramming in rabbit myopia model. 	Proteomic Analysis of Retina-derived CD29 positive Mller Cells in a Myopia induced rabbit model	Glycolysis, Myopia, Mller Cells, Oxidative stress	The prevalence of myopia is rapidly increasing, significantly impacting the quality of life of affected individuals. Prior research by our group revealed reactive gliosis in Muller cells within myopic retina, prompting further investigation of their role in myopia, which remains unclear. In this study, we analyzed protein expression changes in CD29+ Muller cells isolated from a form deprivation-induced rabbit model of myopia using magnetic activated cell sorting to investigate the role of these cells in myopia. As the principal glial cells in the retina, Muller cells exhibited significant alterations in the components of metabolic pathways, particularly glycolysis and angiogenesis, including the upregulation of glycolytic enzymes, such as lactate dehydrogenase A and pyruvate kinase, implicated in the adaptation to increased metabolic demands under myopic stress. Additionally, a decrease in the expression of proteins associated with oxygen transport suggested enhanced vulnerability to oxidative stress. These findings highlight the proactive role of CD29+ Muller cells in modifying the retinal environment in response to myopic stress and provide valuable insights into mechanisms that could help mitigate myopia progression.
PXD056300	39402324	Identification of a 5-gene signature panel for the prediction of prostate cancer progression. 	Identification of a 5-gene Signature Panel for the Prediction of Prostate Cancer Progression	Metastasis, Prognosis, Progression, Prostate Cancer	BACKGROUND: Despite nearly 100% 5-year survival for localised prostate cancer, the survival rate for metastatic prostate cancer significantly declines to 32%. Thus, it is crucial to identify molecular indicators that reflect the progression from localised disease to metastatic prostate cancer. METHODS: To search for molecular indicators associated with prostate cancer metastasis, we performed proteomic analysis of rapid autopsy tissue samples from metastatic prostate cancer (N = 8) and localised prostate cancer (N = 2). Then, we utilised multiple independent, publicly available prostate cancer patient datasets to select candidates that also correlate with worse prostate cancer clinical prognosis. RESULTS: We identified 154 proteins with increased expressions in metastases relative to localised prostate cancer through proteomic analysis. From the subset of these candidates that correlate with prostate cancer recurrence (N = 28) and shorter disease-free survival (N = 37), we identified a 5-gene signature panel with improved performance in predicting worse clinical prognosis relative to individual candidates. CONCLUSIONS: Our study presents a new 5-gene signature panel that is associated with worse clinical prognosis and is elevated in prostate cancer metastasis on both protein and mRNA levels. Our 5-gene signature panel represents a potential modality for the prediction of prostate cancer progression towards the onset of metastasis.
PXD053910	39404373	AAMP and MTSS1 Are Novel Negative Regulators of Endothelial Barrier Function Identified in a Proteomics Screen. 	AAMP and MTSS1 are novel negative regulators of endothelial barrier function identified in a proteomics screen	Rho GTPases, Ubiquitin, endothelial cells, monolayer integrity, protein turnover	Cell-cell adhesion in endothelial monolayers is tightly controlled and crucial for vascular integrity. Recently, we reported on the importance of fast protein turnover for maintenance of endothelial barrier function. Specifically, continuous ubiquitination and degradation of the Rho GTPase RhoB is crucial to preserve quiescent endothelial integrity. Here, we sought to identify other barrier regulators, which are characterized by a short half-life, using a proteomics approach. Following short-term inhibition of ubiquitination with E1 ligase inhibitor MLN7243 or Cullin E3 ligase inhibitor MLN4924 in primary human endothelial cells, we identified sixty significantly differentially expressed proteins. Intriguingly, our data showed that AAMP and MTSS1 are novel negative regulators of endothelial barrier function and that their turnover is tightly controlled by ubiquitination. Mechanistically, AAMP regulates the stability and activity of RhoA and RhoB, and colocalizes with F-actin and cortactin at membrane ruffles, possibly regulating F-actin dynamics. Taken together, these findings demonstrate the critical role of protein turnover of specific proteins in the regulation of endothelial barrier function, contributing to our options to target dysregulation of vascular permeability.
PXD050994	39404904	Oxidative stress initiates hemodynamic change in CKD-induced heart disease. 	Oxidative stress initiates hemodynamic change in CKD induced heart disease	chronic kidney disease, heart, heart disease	Chronic kidney disease (CKD) predisposes to cardiac remodeling and coronary microvascular dysfunction. Studies in swine identified changes in microvascular structure and function, as well as changes in mitochondrial structure and oxidative stress. However, CKD was combined with metabolic derangement, thereby obscuring the contribution of CKD alone. Therefore, we studied the impact of CKD on the heart and combined proteome studies with measurement of cardiac function and perfusion to identify processes involved in cardiac remodeling in CKD. CKD was induced in swine at 10-12 weeks of age while sham-operated swine served as controls. 5-6 months later, left ventricular (LV) function and coronary flow reserve were measured. LC-MS-MS-based proteomic analysis of LV tissue was performed. LV myocardium and kidneys were histologically examined for interstitial fibrosis and oxidative stress. Renal embolization resulted in mild chronic kidney injury (increased fibrosis and urinary NGAL). PV loops showed LV dilation and increased wall stress, while preload recruitable stroke work was impaired in CKD. Quantitative proteomic analysis of LV myocardium and STRING pre-ranked functional analysis showed enrichments in pathways related to contractile function, reactive oxygen species, and extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, which were confirmed histologically and associated with impaired total anti-oxidant capacity. H2O2 exposure of myocardial slices from CKD, but not normal swine, impaired contractile function. Furthermore, in CKD, mitochondrial proteins were downregulated suggesting mitochondrial dysfunction which was associated with higher basal coronary blood flow. Thus, mild CKD induces alterations in mitochondrial proteins along with contractile proteins, oxidative stress and ECM remodeling, that were associated with changes in cardiac function and perfusion.
PXD029962	39405113	EMC3 regulates trafficking and pulmonary toxicity of the SFTPCI73T mutation associated with interstitial lung disease. 	Proteomics of AT2 cells constitutively expressing surfactant protein SP-C(I73T)	Lung, Surfactant Protein C, mutation, trafficking	The most common mutation in surfactant protein C gene (SFTPC), SFTPCI73T, causes interstitial lung disease with few therapeutic options. We previously demonstrated that EMC3, an important component of the multiprotein endoplasmic reticulum membrane complex (EMC), is required for surfactant homeostasis in alveolar type 2 epithelial (AT2) cells at birth. In the present study, we investigated the role of EMC3 in the control of SFTPCI73T metabolism and its associated alveolar dysfunction. Using a knock-in mouse model phenocopying the I73T mutation, we demonstrated that conditional deletion of Emc3 in AT2 cells rescued alveolar remodeling/simplification defects in neonatal and adult mice. Proteomic analysis revealed that Emc3 depletion reversed the disruption of vesicle trafficking pathways and rescued the mitochondrial dysfunction associated with I73T mutation. Affinity purification-mass spectrometry analysis identified potential EMC3 interacting proteins in lung AT2 cells, including Valosin Containing Protein (VCP) and its interactors. Treatment of SftpcI73T knock-in mice and SFTPCI73T expressing iAT2 cells derived from SFTPCI73T patient-specific iPSCs with the specific VCP inhibitor CB5083 restored alveolar structure and SFTPCI73T trafficking respectively. Taken together, the present work identifies the EMC complex and VCP in the metabolism of the disease-associated SFTPCI73T mutant, providing novel therapeutical targets for SFTPCI73T-associated interstitial lung disease.
PXD055498	39406751	The subcortical maternal complex modulates the cell cycle during early mammalian embryogenesis via 14-3-3. 	The subcortical maternal complex modulates the cell cycle during early mammalian embryogenesis via 14-3-3	14-3-3 protein, SCMC, maternal effect gene	The subcortical maternal complex (SCMC) is essential for safeguarding female fertility in mammals. Assembled in oocytes, the SCMC maintains the cleavage of early embryos, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. Here, we report that 14-3-3, a multifunctional protein, is a component of the SCMC. By resolving the structure of the 14-3-3-containing SCMC, we discover that phosphorylation of TLE6 contributes to the recruitment of 14-3-3. Mechanistically, during maternal-to-embryo transition, the SCMC stabilizes 14-3-3 protein and contributes to the proper control of CDC25B, thus ensuring the activation of the maturation-promoting factor and mitotic entry in mouse zygotes. Notably, the SCMC establishes a conserved molecular link with 14-3-3 and CDC25B in human oocytes/embryos. This study discloses the molecular mechanism through which the SCMC regulates the cell cycle in early embryos and elucidates the function of the SCMC in mammalian early embryogenesis.
PXD033844	39406950	A cross-disease resource of living human microglia identifies disease-enriched subsets and tool compounds recapitulating microglial states. 	A cross-disease human microglial framework identifies disease-enriched subsets and tool compounds for microglial polarization.	Alzheimer's, Camptothecin, RNAscope-immunofluorescence, a. microglia, diaPASE, disease-associated microglia, drug targets in neurodegeneration, microglial model systems, neurodegeneration, neuroinflammation, single-cell RNA sequencing	Human microglia play a pivotal role in neurological diseases, but we still have an incomplete understanding of microglial heterogeneity, which limits the development of targeted therapies directly modulating their state or function. Here, we use single-cell RNA sequencing to profile 215,680 live human microglia from 74 donors across diverse neurological diseases and CNS regions. We observe a central divide between oxidative and heterocyclic metabolism and identify microglial subsets associated with antigen presentation, motility and proliferation. Specific subsets are enriched in susceptibility genes for neurodegenerative diseases or the disease-associated microglial signature. We validate subtypes in situ with an RNAscope-immunofluorescence pipeline and high-dimensional MERFISH. We also leverage our dataset as a classification resource, finding that induced pluripotent stem cell model systems capture substantial in vivo heterogeneity. Finally, we identify and validate compounds that recapitulate certain subtypes in vitro, including camptothecin, which downregulates the signature of disease-enriched subtypes and upregulates a signature previously associated with Alzheimer's disease.
PXD053543	39408218	A Multiomics Evaluation of the Countermeasure Influence of 4-Week Cranberry Beverage Supplementation on Exercise-Induced Changes in Innate Immunity. 	Influence of 4-Weeks Cranberry Juice Supplementation on Exercise-Induced Physiological Stress and Inflammation	DIA proteomics, cranberry juice, human plasma	OBJECTIVES: This study examined the effect of a 4-week unsweetened cranberry beverage (CRAN) (317 mg polyphenols) versus placebo beverage (PLAC) ingestion (240 mL/day) on moderating exercise-induced changes in innate immunity. METHODS: Participants included 25 male and female non-elite cyclists. A randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind crossover design was used with two 4-week supplementation periods and a 2-week washout period. Supplementation periods were followed by an intensive 2.25 h cycling bout. Six blood samples were collected before and after supplementation (in an overnight fasted state) and at 0 h, 1.5 h, 3 h, and 24 h post-exercise. Stool and urine samples were collected pre- and post-supplementation. Outcome measures included serum creatine kinase, myoglobin, and cortisol, complete blood counts, plasma untargeted proteomics, plasma-targeted oxylipins, untargeted urine metabolomics, and stool microbiome composition via whole genome shotgun (WGS) sequencing. RESULTS: Urine CRAN-linked metabolites increased significantly after supplementation, but no trial differences in alpha or beta microbiota diversity were found in the stool samples. The 2.25 h cycling bout caused significant increases in plasma arachidonic acid (ARA) and 53 oxylipins (FDR q-value < 0.05). The patterns of increase for ARA, four oxylipins generated from ARA-cytochrome P-450 (CYP) (5,6-, 8,9-, 11,12-, and 14,15-diHETrEs), two oxylipins from linoleic acid (LA) and CYP (9,10-DiHOME, 12,13-DiHOME), and two oxylipins generated from LA and lipoxygenase (LOX) (9-HODE, 13-HODE) were slightly but significantly higher for the CRAN versus PLAC trial (all interaction effects, p < 0.05). The untargeted proteomics analysis showed that two protein clusters differed significantly between the CRAN and PLAC trials, with CRAN-related elevations in proteins related to innate immune activation and reduced levels of proteins related to the regulation of the complement cascade, platelet activation, and binding and uptake of ligands by scavenger receptors. No trial differences were found for cortisol and muscle damage biomarkers. CONCLUSIONS: CRAN versus PLAC juice resulted in a significant increase in CRAN-related metabolites but no differences in the gut microbiome. CRAN supplementation was associated with a transient and modest but significant post-exercise elevation in selected oxylipins and proteins associated with the innate immune system.
PXD054595	39408625	Betaine Induces Apoptosis and Inhibits Invasion in OSCC Cell Lines. 	Human squamous cell carcinoma HSC-4 betaine treatment	betaine, squamous cell carcinoma	Betaine, known as trimethylglycine, is a non-toxic natural substance reported to affect cancer cell responses. This study delves into the impact of betaine on the survival, proliferation, and invasion of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) cells in vitro. Human OSCC cells (HSC-4 and HSC-7) were subjected to varying concentrations of betaine, and their viability and proliferation were assessed through colourimetric MTT and colony-forming unit assays. Cell cycle progression and cell apoptosis were also investigated using flow cytometry, while cell migration and invasion were examined using a transwell migration assay, and the mRNA expression was evaluated by a quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Finally, proteomic analysis was conducted through liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry on the extracted protein component of the cells. Results indicate that betaine effectively suppressed OSCC proliferation and colony formation. It triggered early apoptosis without disrupting cell cycle progression, reduced cell migration, and inhibited invasion. Betaine exposure led to significantly decreased mRNA levels of MMP1, MMP2, and MMP9 while downregulating FN1, a gene linked to epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition. Proteomic analysis revealed 9240 differentially expressed up/downregulated proteins in cells treated with betaine. The significantly upregulated proteins were associated with ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters, while the down-regulated proteins were associated with G protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) ligand binding. In conclusion, betaine exhibits potent anti-cancer properties by attenuating OSCC cell proliferation and mitigating invasion. Exploring this natural product as an adjunct for managing oral squamous cell carcinoma shows promise, although further investigations are needed to fully elucidate its functionality.
PXD055281	39408926	Readdressing the Localization of Apolipoprotein E (APOE) in Mitochondria-Associated Endoplasmic Reticulum (ER) Membranes (MAMs): An Investigation of the Hepatic Protein-Protein Interactions of APOE with the Mitochondrial Proteins Lon Protease (LONP1), Mitochondrial Import Receptor Subunit TOM40 (TOMM40) and Voltage-Dependent Anion-Selective Channel 1 (VDAC1). 	Revisiting the relevance of the accumulation of apolipoprotein E (APOE) in mitochondria-associated ER membranes: Investi-gation of hepatic protein-protein interactions of APOE with LONP1, TOMM40 and VDAC1	APOE4, MAM, liver, mitochondria-ER contacts (MERC), proteome analysis, stress response, subcellular distribution	As a component of circulating lipoproteins, APOE binds to cell surface receptors mediating lipoprotein metabolism and cholesterol transport. A growing body of evidence, including the identification of a broad variety of cellular proteins interacting with APOE, suggests additional independent functions. Investigating cellular localization and protein-protein interactions in cultured human hepatocytes, we aimed to contribute to the elucidation of hitherto unnoted cellular functions of APOE. We observed a strong accumulation of APOE in MAMs, equally evident for the two major isoforms APOE3 and APOE4. Using mass spectrometry proteome analyses, novel and previously noted APOE interactors were identified, including the mitochondrial proteins TOMM40, LONP1 and VDAC1. All three interactors were present in MAM fractions, which we think initially facilitates interactions with APOE. LONP1 is a protease with chaperone activity, which migrated to MAMs in response to ER stress, displaying a reinforced interaction with APOE. We therefore hypothesize that APOE may help in the unfolded protein response (UPR) by acting as a co-chaperone in cooperation with LONP1 at the interface of mitochondria and ER membranes. The interaction of APOE with the integral proteins TOMM40 and VDAC1 may point to the formation of bridging complexes connecting mitochondria with other organelles.
PXD059885	39409015	SILAC-Based Characterization of Plasma-Derived Extracellular Vesicles in Patients Undergoing Partial Hepatectomy. 	SILAC-Based Characterization of Plasma-Derived Extracellular Vesicles in Patients Undergoing Partial Hepatectomy	Plasma extracellular vesicles, Post-hepatectomy liver failure	Post-hepatectomy liver failure (PHLF) remains a significant risk for patients undergoing partial hepatectomy (PHx). Reliable prognostic markers and treatments to enhance liver regeneration are lacking. Plasma nanoparticles, including lipoproteins, exosomes, and extracellular vesicles (EVs), can reflect systemic and tissue-wide proteostasis and stress, potentially aiding liver regeneration. However, their role in PHLF is still unknown. METHODS: Our study included nine patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) undergoing PHx: three patients with PHLF, three patients undergoing the associating liver partition and portal vein ligation for staged hepatectomy (ALPPS) procedure, and three matched controls without complications after PHx. Patient plasma was collected before PHx as well as 1 and 5 days after. EVs were isolated by ultracentrifugation, and extracted proteins were subjected to quantitative mass spectrometry using a super-SILAC mix prepared from primary and cancer cell lines. RESULTS: We identified 2625 and quantified 2570 proteins in the EVs of PHx patients. Among these, 53 proteins were significantly upregulated and 32 were downregulated in patients with PHLF compared to those without PHLF. Furthermore, 110 proteins were upregulated and 78 were downregulated in PHLF patients compared to those undergoing ALPPS. The EV proteomic signature in PHLF indicates significant disruptions in protein translation, proteostasis, and intracellular vesicle biogenesis, as well as alterations in proteins involved in extracellular matrix (ECM) remodelling and the metabolic and cell cycle pathways, already present before PHx. CONCLUSIONS: Longitudinal proteomic analysis of the EVs circulating in the plasma of human patients undergoing PHx uncovers proteomic signatures associated with PHLF, which reflect dying hepatocytes and endothelial cells and were already present before PHx.
PXD048002	39409091	Differential Protein Expression in Extracellular Vesicles Defines Treatment Responders and Non-Responders in Multiple Sclerosis. 	Circulating extracellular vesicles as biomarkers to monitor response to Multiple Sclerosis therapy.	Biomarkers, extracellular vesicles, microRNAs, multiple sclerosis, treatment response	Multiple sclerosis (MS) remains the leading cause of neurological disability among young adults worldwide, underscoring the urgent need to define the best therapeutic strategy. Recent advances in proteomics have deepened our understanding of treatment mechanisms and revealed promising biomarkers for predicting therapeutic outcomes. This study focuses on the identification of a protein profile of circulating extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from neurons, oligodendrocytes, and B and T cells able to differentiate treatment responders and non-responders in 80 patients with MS. In the patients who responded to treatment, T cell-derived EVs were enriched in LV151, a protein involved in the promotion of anti-inflammatory cytokines, whereas Bcell-derived EVs showed elevated PSMD6 and PTPRC, related to immunoproteasome function. Oligodendrocyte- and neuron-derived EVs showed upregulated CO6A1 and COEA1, involved in extracellular matrix reorganisation, as well as LAMA5, NonO, SPNT, and NCAM, which are critical for brain repair. In contrast, non-responders showed higher levels of PSMD7 and PRS10 from B cell-derived EVs, associated with DNA damage, and increased levels of PERM and PERL from T cell-derived EVs, linked to nuclear factor kappa B activation and drug-resistant proteins such as HS90A and RASK. These findings highlight a distinct panel of proteins in EVs that could serve as an early indicator of treatment efficacy in MS.
PXD059156	39411161	Evolutionary origins and innovations sculpting the mammalian PRPS enzyme complex. 	Identification of high molecular weight protein/protein complexes in human cultured cells (HEK293T) LC-MS/MS	High molecular weight proteins, Megadalton assemblies, PRPS complex, protein complexes	The phosphoribosyl pyrophosphate synthetase (PRPS) enzyme conducts a chokepoint reaction connecting central carbon metabolism and nucleotide production pathways, making it essential for life (1,2) . Here, we show that the presence of multiple PRPS-encoding genes is a hallmark trait of eukaryotes, and we trace the evolutionary origins and define the individual functions of each of the five mammalian PRPS homologs - three isozymes (one testis-restricted) (3,4) and two non-enzymatic associated proteins (APs) (5,6) - which we demonstrate operate together as a large molecular weight complex capable of attaining a heterogeneous array of functional multimeric configurations. Employing a repertoire of isogenic fibroblast clones in all viable individual or combinatorial assembly states, we define preferential interactions between subunits, and we show that cells lacking PRPS2, PRPSAP1, and PRPSAP2 render PRPS1 into aberrant homo-oligomeric assemblies with diminished metabolic flux and impaired proliferative capacity. We demonstrate how numerous evolutionary innovations in the duplicated genes have created specialized roles for individual complex members and identify translational control mechanisms that enable fine-tuned regulation of PRPS assembly and activity, which provide clues into the positive and negative selective pressures that facilitate metabolic flexibility and tissue specialization in advanced lifeforms. Collectively, our study demonstrates how evolution has transformed a single PRPS gene into a multimeric complex endowed with functional and regulatory features that govern cellular biochemistry.
PXD049334	39411315	Dissecting the importance and origin of circulating myokines in gastric cancer cachexia. 	Myokines in gastric cancer cachexia	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), cachexia, gastric cancer, myokines	Background: Some experimental data suggest that myokines may play an important role in developing cancer-associated cachexia (CAC), but their relevance in humans remains poorly explored. In our study, we tested the hypothesis that circulating myokines are associated with the pathogenesis of CAC in a model population of gastric cancer. Methods: A group of 171 treatment naive patients with adenocarcinoma of the stomach were prospectively examined. Cachexia was defined as weight loss >5% or weight loss >2% with either BMI <20 kg/m2 or sarcopenia. A panel of 19 myokines was measured in portal and peripheral blood as well as tumour tissue and surrounding gastric mucosa. Moreover, a serum proteomic signature of cachexia was identified by a label-free quantitative proteomics with a nano LC-MS/MS system and stored in a ProteomeXchange database (PXD049334). Results: One hundred (58%) patients were diagnosed with CAC. The concentrations of fatty acid-binding protein 3 (FABP3), follistatin-like 1 protein (FSTL-1), interleukin 6 (IL 6), and interleukin 8 (IL 8) were significantly higher in the peripheral blood of cachectic subjects, while leptin levels were lower. Of all the evaluated myokines, tumour tissues showed higher expression levels only for IL-15 and myostatin. However, the analysis of paired samples failed to demonstrate a decreasing concentration gradient between the portal and peripheral blood for any of the myokines, evidencing against their release by the primary tumour. Proteomic analysis identified 28 proteins upregulated and 24 downregulated in the peripheral blood of patients with cachexia. Differentially expressed proteins and 5 myokines with increased serum levels generated a significant protein-protein interaction network. Conclusions: Our study provides clinical evidence that some myokines are involved in the pathogenesis of cachexia and are well integrated into the regulatory network of circulating blood proteins identified among cachectic patients with gastric cancer.
PXD019334	39412830	Evaluation of a Proteomics-Guided Protein Signature for Breast Cancer Detection in Breast Tissue. 	Quantitative Proteomics by SWATH-MS reveals molecular differences among malignant and benign breast tumors in Mexican woman	Benign, breast, malignant, swath-ms, tumor	The distinction between noncancerous and cancerous breast tissues is challenging in clinical settings, and discovering new proteomics-based biomarkers remains underexplored. Through a pilot proteomic study (discovery cohort), we aimed to identify a protein signature indicative of breast cancer for subsequent validation using six published proteomics/transcriptomics data sets (validation cohorts). Sequential window acquisition of all theoretical (SWATH)-based mass spectrometry revealed 370 differentially abundant proteins between noncancerous tissue and breast cancer. Protein-protein interaction-based networks and enrichment analyses revealed dysregulation in pathways associated with extracellular matrix organization, platelet degranulation, the innate immune system, and RNA metabolism in breast cancer. Through multivariate unsupervised analysis, we identified a four-protein signature (OGN, LUM, DCN, and COL14A1) capable of distinguishing breast cancer. This dysregulation pattern was consistently verified across diverse proteomics and transcriptomics data sets. Dysregulation magnitude was notably higher in poor-prognosis breast cancer subtypes like Basal-Like and HER2 compared to Luminal A. Diagnostic evaluation (receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves) of the signature in distinguishing breast cancer from noncancerous tissue revealed area under the curve (AUC) ranging from 0.87 to 0.9 with predictive accuracy of 80% to 82%. Upon stratifying, to solely include the Basal-Like/Triple-Negative subtype, the ROC AUC increased to 0.922-0.959 with predictive accuracy of 84.2%-89%. These findings suggest a potential role for the identified signature in distinguishing cancerous from noncancerous breast tissue, offering insights into enhancing diagnostic accuracy.
PXD038318	39412990	Defective ribosome assembly impairs leukemia progression in a murine model of acute myeloid leukemia. 	Defective ribosome assembly impairs leukemia progression in a murine model of acute myeloid leukemia	AML, LSC, Ribosome	Despite an advanced understanding of disease mechanisms, the current therapeutic regimen fails to cure most patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). In the present study, we address the role of ribosome assembly in leukemia cell function. We apply patient datasets and murine models to demonstrate that immature leukemia cells in mixed-lineage leukemia-rearranged AML are characterized by relatively high ribosome biogenesis and protein synthesis rates. Using a model with inducible regulation of ribosomal subunit joining, we show that defective ribosome assembly extends survival in mice with AML. Single-cell RNA sequencing and proteomic analyses reveal that leukemia cell adaptation to defective ribosome assembly is associated with an increase in ribosome biogenesis and deregulation of the transcription factor landscape. Finally, we demonstrate that defective ribosome assembly shows antileukemia efficacy in p53-deficient AML. Our study unveils the critical requirement of a high protein synthesis rate for leukemia progression and highlights ribosome assembly as a therapeutic target in AML.
PXD050840	39414232	Integrative omics reveals the metabolic patterns during oocyte growth. 	DIA-based protein quantification of mouse oocytes from five developmental stages.	DIA, mouse oocytes	Well-controlled metabolism is associated with high quality of oocytes and optimal development of a healthy embryo. However, the metabolic framework that controls mammalian oocyte growth remains unknown. In the present study, we comprehensively depict the temporal metabolic dynamics of mouse oocytes during in vivo growth through the integrated analysis of metabolomics and proteomics. A number of novel metabolic features are discovered during this process. Of note, glycolysis is enhanced and oxidative phosphorylation capacity is reduced in the growing oocytes, presenting a Warburg-like metabolic program. For the nucleotide biosynthesis, the salvage pathway is markedly activated during oocyte growth, whereas the de novo pathway is evidently suppressed. Fatty acid synthesis and channeling into phosphoinositides are specifically elevated in oocytes accompanying primordial follicle activation; nevertheless, fatty acid oxidation is reduced in these oocytes simultaneously. Our data establish the metabolic landscape during in vivo oocyte growth and serve as a broad resource for probing mammalian oocyte metabolism.
PXD029509	39414233	Receptor kinase signaling of BRI1 and SIRK1 is tightly balanced by their interactomes as revealed from domain-swap chimaera in AE-MS approaches. 	PEP7 is a ligand for receptor kinase SIRK1 to regulate aquaporins and root growth	aquaporins, ligand, receptor	At the plasma membrane, in response to biotic and abiotic cues, specific ligands initiate the formation of receptor kinase heterodimers, which regulate activities of plasma membrane proteins and initiate signaling cascades to the nucleus. In this study, we utilized affinity enrichment mass spectrometry (AE-MS) to investigate the stimulus-dependent interactomes of LRR receptor kinases in response to their respective ligands, with an emphasis on exploring structural influences and potential cross-talk events at the plasma membrane. BRI1 and SIRK1 were chosen as receptor kinases with distinct coreceptor preference. By using interactome characteristic of domain-swap chimera following a gradient boosting learning algorithm trained on SIRK1 and BRI1 interactomes, we attribute contributions of extracellular domain, transmembrane domain, juxtamembrane domain and kinase domain of respective ligand-binding receptors to their interaction with their coreceptors and substrates. Our results revealed juxtamembrane domain as major structural element defining the specific substrate recruitment for BRI1 and extracellular domain for SIRK1. Furthermore, the learning algrorithm enabled us to predict the phenotypic outcomes of chimeric receptors based on different domain combinations, which was verified by dedicated experiments. As a result, our work reveals a tightly controlled balance of signaling cascade activation dependent on ligand-binding receptors domains and the internal ligand status of the plant. Moreover, our study shows the robust utility of machine learning classification as a quantitative metric for studying dynamic interactomes, dissecting the contribution of specific domains and predicting their phenotypic outcome.
PXD044477	39415009	Spatial proteomics identifies JAKi as treatment for a lethal skin disease. 	Single cell spatial proteomics identifies JAK/STAT pathway as actionable therapeutic target in toxic epidermal necrolysis	DVP, adverse drug reaction, skin, spatial proteomics	Toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) is a fatal drug-induced skin reaction triggered by common medications and is an emerging public health issue(1-3). Patients with TEN undergo severe and sudden epidermal detachment caused by keratinocyte cell death. Although molecular mechanisms that drive keratinocyte cell death have been proposed, the main drivers remain unknown, and there is no effective therapy for TEN(4-6). Here, to systematically map molecular changes that are associated with TEN and identify potential druggable targets, we utilized deep visual proteomics, which provides single-cell-based, cell-type-resolution proteomics(7,8). We analysed formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded archived skin tissue biopsies of three types of cutaneous drug reactions with varying severity and quantified more than 5,000 proteins in keratinocytes and skin-infiltrating immune cells. This revealed a marked enrichment of type I and type II interferon signatures in the immune cell and keratinocyte compartment of patients with TEN, as well as phosphorylated STAT1 activation. Targeted inhibition with the pan-JAK inhibitor tofacitinib in vitro reduced keratinocyte-directed cytotoxicity. In vivo oral administration of tofacitinib, baricitinib or the JAK1-specific inhibitors abrocitinib or upadacitinib ameliorated clinical and histological disease severity in two distinct mouse models of TEN. Crucially, treatment with JAK inhibitors (JAKi) was safe and associated with rapid cutaneous re-epithelialization and recovery in seven patients with TEN. This study uncovers the JAK/STAT and interferon signalling pathways as key pathogenic drivers of TEN and demonstrates the potential of targeted JAKi as a curative therapy.
PXD050526	39415022	A bacterial immunity protein directly senses two disparate phage proteins. 	A versatile bacterial innate immunity protein directly senses two unrelated phage proteins (HDX-MS)	HDX MS	Eukaryotic innate immune systems use pattern recognition receptors to sense infection by detecting pathogen-associated molecular patterns, which then triggers an immune response. Bacteria have similarly evolved immunity proteins that sense certain components of their viral predators, known as bacteriophages(1-6). Although different immunity proteins can recognize different phage-encoded triggers, individual bacterial immunity proteins have been found to sense only a single trigger during infection, suggesting a one-to-one relationship between bacterial pattern recognition receptors and their ligands(7-11). Here we demonstrate that the antiphage defence protein CapRel(SJ46) in Escherichia coli can directly bind and sense two completely unrelated and structurally different proteins using the same sensory domain, with overlapping but distinct interfaces. Our results highlight the notable versatility of an immune sensory domain, which may be a common property of antiphage defence systems that enables them to keep pace with their rapidly evolving viral predators. We found that Bas11 phages harbour both trigger proteins that are sensed by CapRel(SJ46) during infection, and we demonstrate that such phages can fully evade CapRel(SJ46) defence only when both triggers are mutated. Our work shows how a bacterial immune system that senses more than one trigger can help prevent phages from easily escaping detection, and it may allow the detection of a broader range of phages. More generally, our findings illustrate unexpected multifactorial sensing by bacterial defence systems and complex coevolutionary relationships between them and their phage-encoded triggers.
PXD050001	39416716	The impact of cooking and burial on proteins: a characterisation of experimental foodcrusts and ceramics. 	Experimental  Salmon, Deer and Chestnut Fresh, Cooked and Buried Foodcrust and Ceramic LC-MS/MS	Palaeoproteomics, ceramics, foodcrust	Foodcrusts have received relatively little attention in the burgeoning field of proteomic analysis of ancient cuisine. We remain ignorant of how cooking and burial impact protein survival, and crucially, the extent to which the extractome reflects the composition of input ingredients. Therefore, through experimental analogues, we explore the extent of protein survival in unburied and buried foodcrusts and ceramics using 'typical' Mesolithic ingredients (red deer, Atlantic salmon and sweet chestnut). We then explore a number of physicochemical properties theorised to aid protein preservation. The results reveal that proteins were much more likely to be detected in foodcrusts than ceramics using the methodology employed, that input ingredient strongly influences protein preservation, and that degradation is not universal nor linear between proteins, indicating that multiple protein physicochemical properties are at play. While certain properties such as hydrophobicity apparently aid protein preservation, none single-handedly explain why particular proteins/peptides survive in buried foodcrusts: this complex interplay requires further investigation. The findings demonstrate that proteins indicative of the input ingredient can be identifiable in foodcrust, but that the full proteome is unlikely to preserve. While this shows promise for the survival of proteins in archaeological foodcrust, further research is needed to accurately interpret foodcrust extractomes.
PXD050531	39417529	Characterization of the Angiogenic and Proteomic Features of Circulating Exosomes in a Canine Mandibular Model of Distraction Osteogenesis. 	Characterization of the Angiogenic and Proteomic Features of Circulating Exosomes in a Canine Mandibular Model of Distraction Osteogenesis	Angiogenic, Characterization, Circulating Exosomes, Distraction Osteogenesis	Distraction osteogenesis (DO) represents a highly effective method for addressing significant bone defects; however, it necessitates a long treatment period. Exosomes are key mediators of intercellular communication. To investigate their role in the angiogenesis and osteogenesis of DO, we established a canine mandibular DO model with a bone defect (BD) group as the control. Higher levels of angiogenesis were observed in the regenerating tissue from the DO group compared to those from the BD group, accompanied by earlier osteogenesis. Proteomic analysis was performed on circulating exosomes at different phases of the DO using a data-independent acquisition method. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD050531. The results indicated specific alterations in circulating exosome proteins at different phases of DO, reflecting the regenerative activities in the corresponding tissues. Notably, fibronectin 1 (FN1), thrombospondin 1 (THBS1), and transferrin receptor (TFRC) emerged as potential candidate proteins related to the angiogenic response in DO. Further cellular experiments validated the potential of DO-associated circulating exosomes to promote angiogenesis in endothelial cells. Collectively, these data reveal previously unknown mechanisms that may underlie the efficacy of DO and suggest that exosome-derived proteins may be useful as therapeutic targets for strategies designed to improve DO-related angiogenesis and bone regeneration.
PXD040750	39418072	Proteogenomic Landscape of Breast Ductal Carcinoma Reveals Tumor Progression Characteristics and Therapeutic Targets. 	Proteogenomic Landscape of Breast Ductal Carcinoma Reveals Tumor Progression Characteristics and Therapeutic Targets	AKR1C1, Breast ductal carcinoma, Progression, Proteogenomics, Sterol hormone receptor conversion	Multi-omics studies of breast ductal carcinoma (BRDC) have advanced the understanding of the disease's biology and accelerated targeted therapies. However, the temporal order of a series of biological events in the progression of BRDC is still poorly understood. A comprehensive proteogenomic analysis of 224 samples from 168 patients with malignant and benign breast diseases is carried out. Proteogenomic analysis reveals the characteristics of linear multi-step progression of BRDC, such as tumor protein P53 (TP53) mutation-associated estrogen receptor 1 (ESR1) overexpression is involved in the transition from ductal hyperplasia (DH) to ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS). 6q21 amplification-associated nuclear receptor subfamily 3 group C member 1 (NR3C1) overexpression helps DCIS_Pure (pure DCIS, no histologic evidence of invasion) cells avoid immune destruction. The T-cell lymphoma invasion and metastasis 1, androgen receptor, and aldo-keto reductase family 1 member C1 (TIAM1-AR-AKR1C1) axis promotes cell invasion and migration in DCIS_adjIDC (DCIS regions of invasive cancers). In addition, AKR1C1 is identified as a potential therapeutic target and demonstrated the inhibitory effect of aspirin and dydrogesterone as its inhibitors on tumor cells. The integrative multi-omics analysis helps to understand the progression of BRDC and provides an opportunity to treat BRDC in different stages.
PXD053472	39420094	An Orai1 gain-of-function tubular aggregate myopathy mouse model phenocopies key features of the human disease. 	Orai1 tubular aggregate myopathy mice exhibit compromised muscle function, mitochondrial alterations, and postnatal adaptations	ORAI1, SOCE, Skeletal Muscle, Tibialis Anterior Muscle, Tubuar Aggregate Myopathy	Tubular aggregate myopathy (TAM) is a heritable myopathy primarily characterized by progressive muscle weakness, elevated levels of creatine kinase (CK), hypocalcemia, exercise intolerance, and the presence of tubular aggregates (TAs). Here, we generated a knock-in mouse model based on a human gain-of-function mutation which results in a severe, early-onset form of TAM, by inducing a glycine-to-serine point mutation in the ORAI1 pore (Orai1(G100S/+) or GS mice). By 8 months of age, GS mice exhibited significant muscle weakness, exercise intolerance, elevated CK levels, hypocalcemia, and robust TA presence. Unexpectedly, constitutive Ca(2+) entry in mutant mice was observed in muscle only during early development and was abolished in adult skeletal muscle, partly due to reduced ORAI1 expression. Consistent with proteomic results, significant mitochondrial damage and dysfunction was observed in skeletal muscle of GS mice. Thus, GS mice represent a powerful model for investigation of the pathophysiological mechanisms that underlie key TAM symptoms, as well as those compensatory responses that limit the damaging effects of uncontrolled ORAI1-mediated Ca(2+) influx.
PXD047731	39420421	Sustained caloric restriction potentiates insulin action by activating prostacyclin synthase. 	Unraveling the Interplay of Sustained Caloric Restriction and Adipose Tissue GLUT4 Translocation in Insulin Sensitivity Regulation	Insulin sensitivity, Prostacyclin synthase, TUG cleavage, caloric restriction	OBJECTIVE: Caloric restriction (CR) is known to enhance insulin sensitivity and reduce the risk of metabolic disorders; however, its molecular mechanisms are not fully understood. This study aims to elucidate specific proteins and pathways responsible for these benefits. METHODS: We examined adipose tissue from participants in the Comprehensive Assessment of Long-term Effects of Reducing Intake of Energy Phase 2 (CALERIE 2) study, comparing proteomic profiles from individuals after 12 and 24 months of CR with baseline and an ad libitum group. Biochemical and cell-specific physiological approaches complemented these analyses. RESULTS: Our data revealed that CR upregulates prostacyclin synthase (PTGIS) in adipose tissue, an enzyme crucial for producing prostacyclin (PGI2). PGI2 improves the ability of insulin to stimulate the tether-containing UBX domain for GLUT4 (TUG) cleavage pathway, which is essential for glucose uptake regulation. Additionally, iloprost, a PGI2 analog, was shown to increase insulin receptor density on cell membranes, increasing glucose uptake in human adipocytes. CR also reduces carbonylation of GLUT4, a modification that is detrimental to GLUT4 function. CONCLUSIONS: CR enhances insulin sensitivity by promoting PTGIS expression and stimulating the TUG cleavage pathway, leading to increased GLUT4 translocation to the cell surface and decreased GLUT4 carbonylation. These findings shed light on the complex molecular mechanisms through which CR favorably impacts insulin sensitivity and metabolic health.
PXD054231	39421202	A simplified and efficient extracellular vesicle-based proteomics strategy for early diagnosis of colorectal cancer. 	A simplified and efficient extracellular vesicles-based proteomics strategy for early diagnosis of colorectal cancer	EVs Proteomics	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a major cause of cancer-related death worldwide and an effective screening strategy for diagnosis of early-stage CRC is highly desired. Although extracellular vesicles (EVs) are expected to become some of the most promising tools for liquid biopsy of early disease diagnosis, the existing EV-based proteomics methods for practical application in clinical samples are limited by technical challenges in high-throughput isolation and detection of EVs. In the current study, we have developed a simplified and efficient EV-based proteomics strategy for early diagnosis of CRC. DSPE-functionalized beads were specifically designed that enabled direct capture of EVs from plasma samples in 10 minutes with good reproducibility and comprehensive proteome coverage. The single-pot, solid-phase-enhanced sample-preparation (SP3) technology was then combined with data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) for in-depth analysis and quantification of EV proteomes. From a cohort with 30 individuals including 11 healthy controls, 8 patients with adenomatous polyp and 11 patients with early-stage CRC, our streamlined workflow reproducibly quantified over 800 proteins from their plasma-derived EV samples, from which dysregulated protein signatures for molecular diagnosis of CRC were revealed. We selected a panel of 10 protein markers to train a machine learning (ML) model, which resulted in accurate prediction of polyp and early-stage CRC in an independent and single-blind validation cohort with excellent diagnostic ability of 89.3% accuracy. Our simplified and efficient clinical proteomic strategy will serve as a valuable tool for fast, accurate, and cost-effective diagnosis of CRC that can be easily extended to other disease samples for discovery of unique EV-based biomarkers.
PXD054608	39421203	A constitutional isomer selective chemical proteomic strategy for system-wide profiling of protein lysine 5-hydroxylation. 	System-wide profiling of lysine 5-hydroxylation	chemical proteomics, lysine hydroxylation	Lysine 5-hydroxylation (5-Hyl) has been well recognized as an essential protein post-translational modification regulating cellular structural stability, RNA alternative splicing and epigenetic gene expression. System-wide enrichment and quantification of 5-Hyl targets have been challenging due to their chemical inert nature and difficulties in differentiating structural isomers in a complex biological sample. Here, we report the development of an efficient chemical proteomic workflow for affinity enrichment and constitutional isomer specific profiling of endogenous 5-Hyl substrates based on highly selective periodate chemistry. Our study confidently identified over 1600 5-Hyl sites on 630 proteins in human 293T cells, revealing functional significance of the modification in protein structure, transcription and chromatin regulation. Analysis of histone 5-Hyl sites showed that histones H2B and H1 are major targets of the 5-hydroxylysine epigenetic mark. Quantitative proteomic analysis through our chemical enrichment workflow identified specific 5-Hyl substrate proteins mediated by the overexpression of Jumonji-domain containing protein 6 (JMJD6). Our study uncovered two cancer-relevant alternative splice isoforms of JMJD6 that regulate 5-Hyl proteins in distinct cellular pathways, providing unique insights into the functional roles of JMJD6 alternative splicing in transcriptional regulation and cellular development.
PXD035173	39421992	Citrullination Accompanies the Development of Carotid Atherosclerotic Plaques. 	Proteomic profiling of carotid atherosclerotic plaques and adjacent intact arterial segments	TimsToF Pro, atherosclerosis, data-independent acquisition, diaPASEF	BACKGROUND: Citrullination represents a post-translational modification primarily mediated by peptidylarginine deiminase (PADI) 2 and 4 and resulting in the conversion of positively charged peptidylarginine to neutrally charged peptidylcitrulline. Molecular consequences of citrullination include the generation of neoepitopes which provoke the production of autoantibodies implicated in the development of autoimmune diseases. As citrullination initiates, promotes, and is enhanced by aseptic inflammation which plays a pivotal role in atherosclerosis, we proposed that citrullination might accompany the development of atherosclerotic vascular disease. OBJECTIVE: To investigate features and patterns of citrullination in atherosclerotic plaques. METHODS: We collected carotid atherosclerotic plaques (n = 14) and adjacent arterial segments (n = 14) which were pairwise excised during the carotid endarterectomy. The tissues were examined employing proteomic profiling (ultra-high performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis), haematoxylin and eosin staining, Western blotting and immunofluorescence staining for peptidylcitrulline, PADI2, and PADI4, and gene expression analysis. To better explore the mechanisms of citrullination in the neointima, we have also stained excised plaques for the extracellular vesicle markers (CD9 and CD81) and assessed co-localisation of PADI2 (a citrullination marker) with CD81 (an extracellular vesicle marker). In order to study the systemic response to citrullination in an atherosclerotic vascular disease setting, we measured the level of anti-citrullinated protein antibodies in the serum of patients with ischaemic stroke and healthy volunteers. RESULTS: Proteomic profiling found 213 plaque-specific and 111 intact arteria-specific proteins, as well as 46 proteins and 13 proteins which have been respectively upregulated or downregulated in plaques as compared with the adjacent intact segments. Among the top 20 upregulated proteins were atherogenic apolipoprotein B-100, iron-associated protein haptoglobin, and matrix metal-loproteinase-9, together indicating the advanced stage of plaque progression. In comparison with the intact arterial segments, plaques demonstrated protein signatures of innate immune response and oxidative stress, suggesting aseptic inflammation as a driver of atherosclerotic vascular disease. Both peptidylcitrulline and PADI2 have been abundant in the neointima but negligible in tunica media; further, the levels of peptidylcitrulline, PADI2, and PADI4 were elevated in plaque lysates in comparison with those from adjacent arterial segments (p = 0.025, 0.025, and 0.010, respectively). Notably, PADI2 and peptidylcitrulline were co-localised with the cells in the neointima and a considerable proportion of PADI2 was co-localised with CD81-positive extracellular vesicles (p = 0.003). Albeit citrullinated histone H3 and myeloperoxidase showed higher signal in the neointima than in tunica media (p = 0.048 and 0.023, respectively), we did not observe any signs of neutrophil extracellular traps (e.g., unwound chromatin or co-localisation of citrullinated histone H3 with neutrophil elastase) in the plaque tissue. Serum anti-citrullinated protein antibodies were not elevated in patients with ischaemic stroke (p = 0.71), suggesting that vascular citrullination likely does not trigger a generalised immune response. CONCLUSIONS: The development of carotid atherosclerosis is associated with citrullination, although it represents a local rather than systemic phenomenon in this clinical scenario.
PXD033095	39422260	Beyond hemoglobin: Critical role of 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate mutase in kidney function and injury. 	A renal function for 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate mutase (BPGM)	BPGM, acute kidney injury (AKI), apoptosis, kidney, metabolism, nephron, reactive oxygen species (ROS)	AIM: 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate mutase (BPGM) is traditionally recognized for its role in modulating oxygen affinity to hemoglobin in erythrocytes. Recent transcriptomic analyses, however, have indicated a significant upregulation of BPGM in acutely injured murine and human kidneys, suggesting a potential renal function for this enzyme. Here we aim to explore the physiological role of BPGM in the kidney. METHODS: A tubular-specific, doxycycline-inducible Bpgm-knockout mouse model was generated. Histological, immunofluorescence, and proteomic analyses were conducted to examine the localization of BPGM expression and the impact of its knockout on kidney structure and function. In vitro studies were performed to investigate the metabolic consequences of Bpgm knockdown under osmotic stress. RESULTS: BPGM expression was localized to the distal nephron and was absent in proximal tubules. Inducible knockout of Bpgm resulted in rapid kidney injury within 4 days, characterized by proximal tubular damage and tubulointerstitial fibrosis. Proteomic analyses revealed involvement of BPGM in key metabolic pathways, including glycolysis, oxidative stress response, and inflammation. In vitro, Bpgm knockdown led to enhanced glycolysis, decreased reactive oxygen species elimination capacity under osmotic stress, and increased apoptosis. Furthermore, interactions between nephron segments and immune cells in the kidney suggested a mechanism for propagating stress signals from distal to proximal tubules. CONCLUSION: BPGM fulfills critical functions beyond the erythrocyte in maintaining glucose metabolism in the distal nephron. Its absence leads to metabolic imbalances, increased oxidative stress, inflammation, and ultimately kidney injury.
PXD055450	39424143	Phosphorylation regulates the chromatin remodeler SMARCAD1 in nucleosome binding, ATP hydrolysis, and histone exchange. 	Phosphorylation regulates the chromatin remodeler SMARCAD1 in nucleosome binding, ATP hydrolysis, and histone exchange	ATP hydrolysis, SMARCAD1, chromatin remodeling, histone chaperone, histone exchange, nucleosome, nucleosome assembly, phosphorylation, post-translational modification (PTM)	Maintaining the dynamic structure of chromatin is critical for regulating the cellular processes that require access to the DNA template, such as DNA damage repair, transcription, and replication. Histone chaperones and ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling factors facilitate transitions in chromatin structure by assembling and positioning nucleosomes through a variety of enzymatic activities. SMARCAD1 is a unique chromatin remodeler that combines the ATP-dependent ability to exchange histones, with the chaperone-like activity of nucleosome deposition. We have shown previously that phosphorylated SMARCAD1 exhibits reduced binding to nucleosomes. However, it is unknown how phosphorylation affects SMARCAD1's ability to perform its various enzymatic activities. Here we use mutational analysis, activity assays, and mass spectrometry, to probe SMARCAD1 regulation and to investigate the role of its flexible N-terminal region. We show that phosphorylation affects SMARCAD1 binding to nucleosomes, DNA, and histones H2A-H2B as well as ATP hydrolysis and histone exchange. Conversely, we report only a marginal effect of phosphorylation for histone H3-H4 binding and nucleosome assembly. In addition, the SMARCAD1 N-terminal region is revealed to be critical for nucleosome assembly and histone exchange. Together, this work examines the intricacies of how phosphorylation governs SMARCAD1 activity and provides insight into its complex regulation and diverse activities.
PXD033173	39425218	Acquisition of neurodegenerative features in isogenic OPTN(E50K) human stem cell-derived retinal ganglion cells associated with autophagy disruption and mTORC1 signaling reduction. 	Investigating Autophagy Disruption Induces Neurodegeneration in Glaucoma OPTN(E50K) Retinal Ganglion Cells	Human pluripotent stem cell, autophagy, retinal ganglion cells	The ability to derive retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) from human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) has led to numerous advances in the field of retinal research, with great potential for the use of hPSC-derived RGCs for studies of human retinal development, in vitro disease modeling, drug discovery, as well as their potential use for cell replacement therapeutics. Of all these possibilities, the use of hPSC-derived RGCs as a human-relevant platform for in vitro disease modeling has received the greatest attention, due to the translational relevance as well as the immediacy with which results may be obtained compared to more complex applications like cell replacement. While several studies to date have focused upon the use of hPSC-derived RGCs with genetic variants associated with glaucoma or other optic neuropathies, many of these have largely described cellular phenotypes with only limited advancement into exploring dysfunctional cellular pathways as a consequence of the disease-associated gene variants. Thus, to further advance this field of research, in the current study we leveraged an isogenic hPSC model with a glaucoma-associated mutation in the Optineurin (OPTN) protein, which plays a prominent role in autophagy. We identified an impairment of autophagic-lysosomal degradation and decreased mTORC1 signaling via activation of the stress sensor AMPK, along with subsequent neurodegeneration in OPTN(E50K) RGCs differentiated from hPSCs, and have further validated some of these findings in a mouse model of ocular hypertension. Pharmacological inhibition of mTORC1 in hPSC-derived RGCs recapitulated disease-related neurodegenerative phenotypes in otherwise healthy RGCs, while the mTOR-independent induction of autophagy reduced protein accumulation and restored neurite outgrowth in diseased OPTN(E50K) RGCs. Taken together, these results highlighted that autophagy disruption resulted in increased autophagic demand which was associated with downregulated signaling through mTORC1, contributing to the degeneration of RGCs.
PXD049349	39425684	LineageFilter: Improved Proteotyping of Complex Samples Using Metaproteomics and Machine Learning. 	LineageFilter: Estimating the taxonomic composition of complex samples using metaproteomics and machine learning	bioinformatics	Metaproteomics is a powerful tool to characterize how microbiota function by analyzing their proteic content by tandem mass spectrometry. Given the complexity of these samples, accurately assessing their taxonomical composition without prior information based solely on peptide sequences remains a challenge. Here, we present LineageFilter, a new python-based AI software for refined proteotyping of complex samples using metaproteomics interpreted data and machine learning. Given a tentative list of taxa, their abundances, and the scores associated with their identified peptides, LineageFilter computes a comprehensive set of features for each identified taxon at all taxonomical ranks. Its machine-learning model then assesses the likelihood of each taxon's presence based on these features, enabling improved proteotyping and sample-specific database construction.
PXD048653	39425928	High-throughput identification of calcium-regulated proteins across diverse proteomes. 	High-Throughput Identification of Calcium Regulated Proteins Across Diverse Proteomes	Calcium ion engagement, cell signaling, oxidation of polyunsaturated fatty acids, thermal stability proteomics	Calcium ions play important roles in nearly every biological process, yet whole-proteome analysis of calcium effectors has been hindered by a lack of high-throughput, unbiased, and quantitative methods to identify protein-calcium engagement. To address this, we adapted protein thermostability assays in budding yeast, human cells, and mouse mitochondria. Based on calcium-dependent thermostability, we identified 2,884 putative calcium-regulated proteins across human, mouse, and yeast proteomes. These data revealed calcium engagement of signaling hubs and cellular processes, including metabolic enzymes and the spliceosome. Cross-species comparison of calcium-protein engagement and mutagenesis experiments identified residue-specific cation engagement, even within well-known EF-hand domains. Additionally, we found that the dienoyl-coenzyme A (CoA) reductase DECR1 binds calcium at physiologically relevant concentrations with substrate-specific affinity, suggesting direct calcium regulation of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation. These discovery-based proteomic analyses of calcium effectors establish a key resource to dissect cation engagement and its mechanistic effects across multiple species and diverse biological processes.
PXD056497	39426983	IGF2BP1 phosphorylation in the disordered linkers regulates ribonucleoprotein condensate formation and RNA metabolism. 	Detection of IGF2BP1 phosphorylation in vitro and in vivo via Pro-Alanase treatment	IGF2BP1, Pro-Alanase, tyrosine phosphorylation	The insulin-like growth factor 2 mRNA binding protein 1 (IGF2BP1) is a conserved RNA-binding protein that regulates RNA stability, localization and translation. IGF2BP1 is part of various ribonucleoprotein (RNP) condensates. However, the mechanism that regulates its assembly into condensates remains unknown. By using proteomics, we demonstrate that phosphorylation of IGF2BP1 at S181 in a disordered linker is regulated in a stress-dependent manner. Phosphomimetic mutations in two disordered linkers, S181E and Y396E, modulate RNP condensate formation by IGF2BP1 without impacting its binding affinity for RNA. Intriguingly, the S181E mutant, which lies in linker 1, impairs IGF2BP1 condensate formation in vitro and in cells, whereas a Y396E mutant in the second linker increases condensate size and dynamics. Structural approaches show that the first linker binds RNAs nonspecifically through its RGG/RG motif, an interaction weakened in the S181E mutant. Notably, linker 2 interacts with IGF2BP1's folded domains and these interactions are partially impaired in the Y396E mutant. Importantly, the phosphomimetic mutants impact IGF2BP1's interaction with RNAs and remodel the transcriptome in cells. Our data reveal how phosphorylation modulates low-affinity interaction networks in disordered linkers to regulate RNP condensate formation and RNA metabolism.
PXD055284	39427986	DSSBU: A novel mass spectrometry-cleavable analogue of the BS(3) cross-linker. 	DSSBU: novel cross-linker tested on bovine serum albumin and human hemoglobin	BSA, DSSBU, MS-cleavable cross-linker, XL-MS, hemoglobin	Protein cross-linking has assumed an irreplaceable role in structural proteomics. Recently, significant efforts have been made to develop novel mass spectrometry (MS)-cleavable reagents. At present, only water-insoluble MS-cleavable cross-linkers are commercially available. However, to comprehensively analyse the various chemical and structural motifs making up proteins, it is necessary to target different protein sites with varying degrees of hydrophilicity. Here we introduce the new MS-cleavable cross-linker disulfodisuccinimidyl dibutyric urea (DSSBU), which we have developed in-house for this purpose. DSSBU contains an N-hydroxysulfosuccinimide (sulfo-NHS) reactive group, so it can serve as a water-soluble counterpart to the widely used cross-linker disuccinimidyl dibutyric urea (DSBU). To investigate the applicability of DSSBU, we compared the efficacy of four similar cross-linkers: bis[sulfosuccinimidyl] suberate (BS(3)), disuccinimidyl suberate (DSS), DSBU and DSSBU with bovine serum albumin. In addition, we compared the efficacy of DSBU and DSSBU with human haemoglobin. Our results demonstrate that the sulfo-NHS group ensures the superior water solubility of DSSBU and thus negates the need for organic solvents such as dimethyl sulfoxide while preserving the effectivity of urea-based MS-cleavable crosslinkers such as DSBU. Additionally, it makes it possible to target polar regions in proteins. The data gathered are available via ProteomeXchange under identifier PXD055284. SIGNIFICANCE: We have synthesized the novel protein cross-linker DSSBU, which combines sulfo-NHS ester chemistry with a mass spectrometry-cleavable urea group. This makes DSSBU a water-soluble, MS-cleavable cross-linker that reacts with amino groups. To our knowledge, it is the first cross-linker which combines all three of these characteristics. We have tested the performance of our novel cross-linker on bovine serum albumin, a model widely used by the cross-linking mass spectrometry community, and on human haemoglobin. We have comprehensively assessed the performance of DSSBU and compared its efficacy with that of three other cross-linkers in current use (BS(3), DSS and DSBU). We conclude that our novel cross-linker surpasses its MS-non-cleavable analogue BS(3) in performance and that its water solubility eliminates the need for organic solvents while its hydrophilicity allows for the targetting of polar regions in proteins. Therefore, it will likely become a significant addition to the portfolio of N-hydroxysuccinimide ester cross-linkers.
PXD052178	39429019	Bacterial extracellular vesicles as intranasal postbiotics: Detailed characterization and interaction with airway cells. 	Proteomics of E. coli extracellular vesicles	E. coli, EcO83, extracellular vesicles	Escherichia coli A0 34/86 (EcO83) is a probiotic strain used in newborns to prevent nosocomial infections and diarrhoea. This bacterium stimulates both pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokine production and its intranasal administration reduces allergic airway inflammation in mice. Despite its benefits, there are concerns about the use of live probiotic bacteria due to potential systemic infections and gene transfer. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from EcO83 (EcO83-EVs) might offer a safer alternative to live bacteria. This study characterizes EcO83-EVs and investigates their interaction with host cells, highlighting their potential as postbiotic therapeutics. EcO83-EVs were isolated, purified, and characterised following the Minimal Information of Studies of Extracellular Vesicles (MISEV) guidelines. Ex vivo studies conducted in human nasal epithelial cells showed that EcO83-EVs increased the expression of proteins linked to oxidative stress and inflammation, indicating an effective interaction between EVs and the host cells. Further in vivo studies in mice demonstrated that EcO83-EVs interact with nasal-associated lymphoid tissue, are internalised by airway macrophages, and stimulate neutrophil recruitment in the lung. Mechanistically, EcO83-EVs activate the NF-kappaBeta signalling pathway, resulting in the nitric oxide production. EcO83-EVs demonstrate significant potential as a postbiotic alternative to live bacteria, offering a safer option for therapeutic applications. Further research is required to explore their clinical use, particularly in mucosal vaccination and targeted immunotherapy strategies.
PXD055302	39430425	ALK1 Signaling in Human Cardiac Progenitor Cells Promotes a Pro-angiogenic Secretome. 	BMP9 Secretome of hHiPC LC-MS/MS	Heart, Secretome	Pro-angiogenic paracrine/autocrine signaling impacts myocardial repair in cell-based therapies. Activin A receptor-like type 1 (ACVRL1, ALK1) signaling plays a pivotal role in cardiovascular development and maintenance, but its importance in human-derived therapeutic cardiac cells is not well understood. Here, we isolated a subpopulation of human highly proliferative cells (hHiPCs) from adult epicardial tissue and found that they express ALK1, a high affinity receptor for bone morphogenetic protein-9 (BMP9), which signals via SMAD1/5 to regulate paracrine/autocrine signaling and angiogenesis. We show that in humans, circulating BMP9 level is negatively associated with the number of epicardial hHiPC and positively associated with endothelial cell (EC) number in the adult heart, implicating the potential importance of this signaling pathway in cardiac cell fate and vascular maintenance. To investigate BMP9/ALK1 signaling in hHiPCs, we selected a primary cell population of hHiPC from each of 3 individuals and studied their responses to BMP9 and BMP10 treatment in vitro. Proteins were collected in conditioned media (CM) for mass spectrometry and cell-based assays on human ECs and hHiPCs. Proteomic analysis of the hHiPC secretome following BMP9 or BMP10 treatment demonstrates that the secreted proteins, sclerostin (SOST), meflin/immunoglobulin superfamily containing leucine rich repeat (ISLR), and insulin-like growth factor binding protein-3 (IGFBP3), are novel regulated targets of BMP9/ALK1 signaling. Lentiviral shRNA and pharmacological inhibition of ALK1 in hHiPCs suppressed transcription and secretion of SOST, ISLR, and IGFBP3 following BMP9 treatment. Moreover, the BMP9-treated secretome of hHiPC increased capillary-like tube formation of ECs and hHiPCs. Treatment of hHiPCs with recombinant SOST increased VEGF-a expression, increased tube formation and enhanced expression of EC receptor marker annexin A2 (ANXA2). These data provide the first proteomic characterization of hHiPC, identifying BMP9/ALK1-mediated target protein secretion in hHiPCs, and underscore the complex role of BMP9/ALK1 signaling in paracrine/autocrine mediated angiogenesis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD055302.
PXD050586	39432513	Mlf mediates proteotoxic response via formation of cellular foci for protein folding and degradation in Giardia. 	Mlf Mediates Proteotoxic Response via Formation of Cellular Foci for Protein Folding and Degradation	: Myeloid leukemia factor, Giardia, proteasome, protein quality control, stress response, ubiquitin-rich bodies	Myeloid leukemia factor 1 (Mlf1) was identified as a proto-oncoprotein that affects hematopoietic differentiation in humans. However, its cellular function remains elusive, spanning roles from cell cycle regulation to modulation of protein aggregate formation and participation in ciliogenesis. Given that structurally conserved homologs of Mlf1 can be found across the eukaryotic tree of life, we decided to characterize its cellular role underlying this phenotypic pleiotropy. Using a model of the unicellular eukaryote Giardia intestinalis, we demonstrate that its Mlf1 homolog (GiMlf) mainly localizes to two types of cytosolic foci: microtubular structures, where it interacts with Hsp40, and ubiquitin-rich, membraneless compartments, found adjacent to mitochondrion-related organelles known as mitosomes, containing the 26S proteasome regulatory subunit 4. Upon cellular stress, GiMlf either relocates to the affected compartment or disperses across the cytoplasm, subsequently accumulating into enlarged foci during the recovery phase. In vitro assays suggest that GiMlf can be recruited to membranes through its affinity for signaling phospholipids. Importantly, cytosolic foci diminish in the gimlf knockout strain, which exhibits extensive proteomic changes indicative of compromised proteostasis. Consistent with data from other cellular systems, we propose that Mlf acts in the response to proteotoxic stress by mediating the formation of function-specific foci for protein folding and degradation.
PXD049031	39433127	Multiplex Genomic Tagging of Mammalian ATG8s to Study Autophagy. 	A new cellular platform for studying autophagy	Autophagy, GABARAP, immunoprecipitation	Atg8 proteins play a crucial role in autophagy. There is a single Atg8 isoform in yeast, while mammals have up to seven homologs categorized into LC3s and GABARAPs. The GABARAP subfamily consists of GABARAP, GABARAPL1, and GABARAPL2/GATE16, implicated in various stages along the pathway. However, the intricacies among GABARAP proteins are complex and require a more precise delineation. Here, we introduce a new cellular platform to study autophagy using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated tagging of endogenous genes of the GABARAP subfamily with different fluorescent proteins. This platform allows robust examination of autophagy by flow cytometry of cell populations and monitoring of GABARAP homologs at single-cell resolution using fluorescence microscopy. Strikingly, the simultaneous labeling of the different endogenous GABARAPs allows the identification and isolation of autophagosomes differentially marked by these proteins. Using this system, we found that the different GABARAPs are associated with different autophagosomes. We argue that this new cellular platform will be crucial in studying the unique roles of individual GABARAP proteins in autophagy and other putative cellular processes.
PXD053746	39433155	In-depth proteomics and Phosphoproteomics reveal biomarkers and molecular pathways of chronic intermittent hypoxia in mice. 	In-depth Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Reveal Biomarkers and Molecular Pathways of Chronic Intermittent Hypoxia in Mice	Chronic Intermittent Hypoxia, Obstructive Sleep Apnea, Phosphoproteome	Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) syndrome is characterized by Chronic Intermittent Hypoxia (CIH). In this study, we employed Data-independent acquisition (DIA) Mass Spectrometry to conduct comprehensive proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of a murine model subjected to Chronic Intermittent Hypoxia (CIH), a model we had previously established. Utilizing three CIH and three normal control genioglossus samples, we gathered valuable insights into the molecular alterations associated with CIH. Our analyses identified a total of 4576 protein groups and 13,867 phosphosites. Differential analysis of the proteomic data highlighted a significant upregulation of Ras signaling (Egf, Ngf, and Fyb1) and calcium signaling (Tnn, Thbs4, and Ppp2r2d) in CIH samples, contrasting with a notable decrease in oxidative phosphorylation (Atp5mf, Atp5me, and Atp5mg). Additionally, we observed a substantial increase in the phosphorylation of PI3K-AKT signaling (Ptk2_Y861, Mapk3_T203, and Eif4b_S230) and HIF-1 signaling (Gapdh_S208, Eno3_T229, and Camk2b_T382) in CIH samples. These findings prompted a deeper investigation into the association of the characterized proteins and phosphoproteins with Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA). The comprehensive profiling revealed molecular signatures that may serve as valuable insights into the pathophysiology of chronic intermittent hypoxia and its link to obstructive sleep apnea. Our observations provide a foundation for future research endeavors, offering potential avenues for advancing our understanding and treatment strategies for these conditions. SIGNIFICANCE: The significance of this study lies in its comprehensive exploration of the molecular mechanisms underpinning Chronic Intermittent Hypoxia (CIH), a key feature of Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA). By employing Data-independent acquisition (DIA) Mass Spectrometry, this research provides an in-depth proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis, uncovering critical signaling pathways and molecular alterations associated with CIH. The identification of significant changes in Ras and calcium signaling pathways, along with increased phosphorylation in PI3K-AKT and HIF-1 signaling, offers novel insights into the pathophysiological processes involved in CIH and OSA. These findings not only enhance our understanding of the molecular basis of OSA but also pave the way for the development of targeted therapeutic strategies, ultimately contributing to better management and treatment of OSA and related conditions.
PXD056565	39433916	Interplay between acetylation and ubiquitination controls PSAT1 protein stability in lung adenocarcinoma. 	Mass spectrometry analysis in human lung adenocarcinoma	lung adenocarcinoma,human,PSAT1	Serine is essential to maintain maximal growth and proliferation of cancer cells by providing adequate intermediate metabolites and energy. Phosphoserine aminotransferase 1 (PSAT1) is a key enzyme in de novo serine synthesis. However, little is known about the mechanisms underlying PSAT1 degradation. We found that acetylation was the switch that regulated the degradation of PSAT1 in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD). Deacetylation of PSAT1 on Lys51 by histone deacetylase 7 (HDAC7) enhanced the interaction between PSAT1 and the deubiquitinase ubiquitin-specific processing protease 14 (USP14), leading to the deubiquitination and stabilization of PSAT1; while acetylation of PSAT1 promoted its interaction with the E3 ligase ubiquitination factor E4B (UBE4B), leading to proteasomal degradation. Acetylation of PSAT1 on Lys51 regulated serine metabolism and tumor proliferation in LUAD. Thus, acetylation and ubiquitination cooperatively regulated the protein homeostasis of PSAT1. In conclusion, our study reveals a key regulatory mechanism for maintaining PSAT1 protein homeostasis in LUAD.
PXD051141	39434663	Direct Mapping of Polyclonal Epitopes in Serum by HDX-MS. 	HDX of SEB and Neutralizing mAbs	HDX-MS, Hydorgen Deuterium Exchange, SEB	Elucidating the interactions that drive antigen recognition is central to understanding antibody-mediated protection and is vital for the rational design of immunogens. Often, structural knowledge of epitopes targeted by antibodies is derived from isolated studies of monoclonal antibodies, for which numerous structural techniques exist. In contrast, there are very few approaches capable of mapping the full scope of antigen surfaces targeted by polyclonal sera through the course of a natural antibody response. Here, we develop an approach using immobilized antigen coupled to hydrogen/deuterium exchange with mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) to probe epitope targeting in the context of the fully native serum environment. Using the well-characterized Staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) as a model system, we show that complex combinations of epitopes can be detected and subtle differences across different antisera can be discerned. This work reveals new insight into how neutralizing antibodies and antisera target SEB and, more importantly, establishes a novel method for directly mapping the epitope landscape of polyclonal sera.
PXD056117	39435142	Selenium supplementation elevated SELENBP1 to inhibit fibroblast activation in pulmonary arterial hypertension. 	Selenium Supplementation Elevated SELENBP1 to Inhibit Fibroblast Activation in Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension	monocrotaline-induced rat models, proteins in the pulmonary artery branches, pulmonary arterial hypertension	Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a life-threatening disease induced by abnormal activation of pulmonary adventitial fibroblasts (PAFs) in the early stage. The association between selenium deficiency and PAH is not yet fully understood. In this study, we found that the serum selenium content of PAH patients was significantly lower than that of healthy volunteers in two independent cohorts. Moreover, PAH patients with lower selenium levels may present poorer prognosis. Prophylactic selenium supplementation could effectively improve hemodynamics and pulmonary vascular remodeling in monocrotaline-induced pulmonary hypertension rat models. Mechanistically, selenium supplementation restored the level of selenium binding protein 1 (SELENBP1) which could exert an antagonistic effect on PAF activation. The rescue assay further proved that selenium supplementation worked in a SELENBP1-dependent manner. These findings demonstrated that selenium deficiency is an important risk factor in PAH, and the selenium-SELENBP1 axis represents a promising target for PAH prevention.
PXD050009	39435487	SARS-CoV-2 hijacks host CD55, CD59 and Factor H to impair antibody-dependent complement-mediated lysis. 	Proteome characterisation of SARS-CoV-2 virions derived from different cells/species	SARS-CoV-2, virion	The complement system is a vital anti-microbial defence mechanism against circulating pathogens. Excessive complement activation can have deleterious outcomes for the host and is consequently tightly modulated by a set of membrane-associated and fluid-phase regulators of complement activation (RCAs). Here, we demonstrate that severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) hijacks host cellular RCA members CD55 and CD59 and serum-derived Factor H (FH) to resist antibody-dependent complement-mediated lysis triggered by immunised human sera. Blockage of the biological functions of virion-associated CD55 and CD59 and competition of FH recruitment with functionally inactive recombinant FH-derived short consensus repeats SCR18-20 restore SARS-CoV-2 complement sensitivity in a synergistic manner. Moreover, complement-mediated virolysis is dependent on classical pathway activation and does not occur in the absence of virus-specific antibodies. Altogether, our findings present an intriguing immune escape mechanism that provides novel insights into the immunopathology observed in severe coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19).
PXD055731	39435643	Pericytes Modulate Third-Generation Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor Sensitivity in EGFR-Mutated Lung Cancer Cells Through IL32-beta5-Integrin Paracrine Signaling. 	Secretomics and proteomics analysis of the Primary turmor cell and PC cells	Lung cancer	EGFR-mutated lung cancer patients sometimes display restricted responses to third-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs), potentially attributable to undervalued input from stromal cells, notably pericytes (PCs). The study shows that PCs isolated from EGFR-mutated patients have a unique secretome profile, notably secreting IL32 and affecting signaling pathways and biological processes linked to TKI sensitivity. Clinical evidence, supported by single-cell RNA sequencing and multiplex immunostaining of tumor tissues, confirms the presence of IL32-expressing pericytes closely interacting with beta5-integrin-expressing cancer cells in EGFR-mutated patients, impacting therapeutic response and prognosis. Co-culture and conditioned medium experiments demonstrate that PCs reduce TKI effectiveness in EGFR-mutated cancer cells, a reversible phenomenon through silencing IL32 expression in PCs or depleting the IL32 receptor beta5-integrin on cancer cells, thereby restoring cancer cell sensitivity. Mechanistically, it is shown that YY1 signaling upregulates IL32 secretion in PCs, subsequently activating the beta5-integrin-Src-Akt pathway in EGFR-mutated cancer cells, contributing to their TKI sensitivity. In animal studies, co-injection of cancer cells with PCs compromises TKI effectiveness, independently of blood vessel functions, while inhibition of beta5-integrin restores tumor cell sensitivity. Overall, the findings highlight direct crosstalk between cancer cells and pericytes, impacting TKI sensitivity via IL32-beta5-integrin paracrine signaling, proposing an enhanced therapeutic approach for EGFR-mutated patients.
PXD039526	39436790	LncRNA Snhg3 aggravates hepatic steatosis via PPARgamma signaling. 	RNA-Pull down and MS for Snhg3	NAFLD, Snhg3	LncRNAs are involved in modulating the individual risk and the severity of progression in metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MASLD), but their precise roles remain largely unknown. This study aimed to investigate the role of lncRNA Snhg3 in the development and progression of MASLD, along with the underlying mechanisms. The result showed that Snhg3 was significantly downregulated in the liver of high-fat diet-induced obesity (DIO) mice. Notably, palmitic acid promoted the expression of Snhg3 and overexpression of Snhg3 increased lipid accumulation in primary hepatocytes. Furthermore, hepatocyte-specific Snhg3 deficiency decreased body and liver weight, alleviated hepatic steatosis and promoted hepatic fatty acid metabolism in DIO mice, whereas overexpression induced the opposite effect. Mechanistically, Snhg3 promoted the expression, stability and nuclear localization of SND1 protein via interacting with SND1, thereby inducing K63-linked ubiquitination modification of SND1. Moreover, Snhg3 decreased the H3K27me3 level and induced SND1-mediated chromatin loose remodeling, thus reducing H3K27me3 enrichment at the Pparg promoter and enhancing PPARgamma expression. The administration of PPARgamma antagonist T0070907 improved Snhg3-aggravated hepatic steatosis. Our study revealed a new signaling pathway, Snhg3/SND1/H3K27me3/PPARgamma, responsible for mice MASLD and indicates that lncRNA-mediated epigenetic modification has a crucial role in the pathology of MASLD.
PXD055242	39436829	Meta-Analysis and DIA-MS-Based Proteomic Investigation of COPD Patients and Asymptomatic Smokers in the Indian Population. 	Meta-Analysis and DIA-MS-based Proteomic Investigation of COPD Patients and Asymptomatic Smokers in the Indian population	: COPD, DIA, Indian population, asymptomatic smokers, healthy subjects, smokers	Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is India's second largest cause of death and is largely caused by smoking. Asymptomatic smokers develop COPD due to genetic, environmental, and molecular variables, making early screening crucial. Data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) based-proteomics offers an unbiased method to analyze proteomic profiles. This study is the first to use DIA-based proteomics to analyze individual serum samples from three distinct male cohorts: healthy individuals (n = 10), asymptomatic smokers (n = 10), and COPD patients (n = 10). This comprehensive approach identified 667 proteins with a 1% false discovery rate. Differentially expressed proteins included 40 in the normal versus asymptomatic comparison, 88 in the COPD versus normal comparison, and 40 in the COPD versus asymptomatic comparison. Among them, protein-associated genes such as PRDX6, ELANE, PRKCSH, PRTN3, and MNDA could help differentiate COPD from asymptomatic smokers, while ELANE, H3-3A, IGHE, SLC4A1, and SERPINA11 could differentiate COPD from healthy subjects. Pathway enrichment and protein-protein interaction analyses revealed significant alterations in hemostasis, immune system functions, fibrin clot formation, and post-translational protein modifications. Key proteins were validated using a parallel reaction monitoring assay. DIA data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD055242. Our findings reveal key protein classifiers in COPD patients, asymptomatic smokers, and healthy individuals, helping clinicians understand disease pathobiology and improve disease management and quality of life.
PXD055268	39438988	Combining ERAP1 silencing and entinostat therapy to overcome resistance to cancer immunotherapy in neuroblastoma. 	Combining ERAP1 silencing and entinostat therapy to overcome resistance to cancer  immunotherapy in neuroblastoma	ERAP, Immunopeptidomics, MHC, Neuroblastoma, immunotherapy	BACKGROUND: Checkpoint immunotherapy unleashes tumor control by T cells, but it is undermined in non-immunogenic tumors, e.g. with low MHC class I expression and low neoantigen burden, such as neuroblastoma (NB). Endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1) is an enzyme that trims peptides before loading on MHC class I molecules. Inhibition of ERAP1 results in the generation of new antigens able of inducing potent anti-tumor immune responses. Here, we identify a novel non-toxic combinatorial strategy based on genetic inhibition of ERAP1 and administration of the HDAC inhibitor (HDACi) entinostat that increase the immunogenicity of NB, making it responsive to PD-1 therapy. METHODS: CRISPR/Cas9-mediated gene editing was used to knockout (KO) the ERAP1 gene in 9464D NB cells derived from spontaneous tumors of TH-MYCN transgenic mice. The expression of MHC class I and PD-L1 was evaluated by flow cytometry (FC). The immunopeptidome of these cells was studied by mass spectrometry. Cocultures of splenocytes derived from 9464D bearing mice and tumor cells allowed the assessment of the effect of ERAP1 inhibition on the secretion of inflammatory cytokines and activation and migration of immune cells towards ERAP1 KO cells by FC. Tumor cell killing was evaluated by Caspase 3/7 assay and flow cytometry analysis. The effect of ERAP1 inhibition on the immune content of tumors was analyzed by FC, immunohistochemistry and multiple immunofluorescence. RESULTS: We found that inhibition of ERAP1 makes 9464D cells more susceptible to immune cell-mediated killing by increasing both the recall and activation of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells and NK cells. Treatment with entinostat induces the expression of MHC class I and PD-L1 molecules in 9464D both in vitro and in vivo. This results in pronounced changes in the immunopeptidome induced by ERAP1 inhibition, but also restrains the growth of ERAP1 KO tumors in vivo by remodelling the tumor-infiltrating T-cell compartment. Interestingly, the absence of ERAP1 in combination with entinostat and PD-1 blockade overcomes resistance to PD-1 immunotherapy and increases host survival. CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that ERAP1 inhibition combined with HDACi entinostat treatment and PD-1 blockade remodels the immune landscape of a non-immunogenic tumor such as NB, making it responsive to checkpoint immunotherapy.
PXD051930	39440976	Fpa (YlaN) is an iron(II) binding protein that functions to relieve Fur-mediated repression of gene expression in Staphylococcus aureus. 	Fpa (YlaN) is an iron(II) binding protein that functions to relieve Fur-mediated repression of gene expression in Staphylococcus aureus via a direct interaction.	Fpa, Fur, Staphylococcus aureus, YlaN, iron, sulfur	Iron (Fe) is a trace nutrient required by nearly all organisms. As a result of the demand for Fe and the toxicity of non-chelated cytosolic ionic Fe, regulatory systems have evolved to tightly balance Fe acquisition and usage while limiting overload. In most bacteria, including the mammalian pathogen Staphylococcus aureus, the ferric uptake regulator (Fur) is the primary transcriptional regulator controlling the transcription of genes that code for Fe uptake and utilization proteins. Fpa (formerly YlaN) was demonstrated to be essential in Bacillus subtilis unless excess Fe is added to the growth medium, suggesting a role in Fe homeostasis. Here, we demonstrate that Fpa is essential in S. aureus upon Fe deprivation. Null fur alleles bypassed the essentiality of Fpa. The absence of Fpa abolished the derepression of Fur-regulated genes during Fe limitation. Bioinformatic analyses suggest that fpa was recruited to Gram-positive bacteria and, once acquired, was maintained in the genome as it co-evolved with Fur. Consistent with a role for Fpa in alleviating Fur-dependent repression, Fpa and Fur interacted in vivo, and Fpa decreased the DNA-binding ability of Fur in vitro. Fpa bound Fe(II) in vitro using oxygen or nitrogen ligands with an association constant that is consistent with a physiological role in Fe homeostasis. These findings have led to a model wherein Fpa is an Fe(II) binding protein that influences Fur-dependent regulation through direct interaction.IMPORTANCEIron (Fe) is an essential nutrient for nearly all organisms. If Fe homeostasis is not maintained, Fe may accumulate in the cytosol, which can be toxic. Questions remain about how cells efficiently balance Fe uptake and usage to prevent overload. Iron uptake and proper metalation of proteins are essential processes in the mammalian bacterial pathogen Staphylococcus aureus. Understanding the gene products involved in the genetic regulation of Fe uptake and usage and the physiological adaptations that S. aureus uses to survive in Fe-depleted conditions provides insight into pathogenesis. Herein, we demonstrate that the DNA-binding activity of the ferric uptake regulator transcriptional repressor is alleviated under Fe limitation, but uniquely, in S. aureus, alleviation requires the presence of Fpa.
PXD049029	39441077	GTSF1 is required for transposon silencing in the unicellular eukaryote Paramecium tetraurelia. 	Mass spectrometry of PtGtsf1 interacted proteins in Paramecium tetraurelia	Paramecium tetraurelia, PtGtsf1	The PIWI-interacting RNA (piRNA) pathway is crucial for transposon repression and the maintenance of genomic integrity. Gametocyte-specific factor 1 (GTSF1), a PIWI-associated protein indispensable for transposon repression, has been recently shown to potentiate the catalytic activity of PIWI in many metazoans. Whether the requirement of GTSF1 extends to PIWI proteins beyond metazoans is unknown. In this study, we identified a homolog of GTSF1 in the unicellular eukaryote Paramecium tetraurelia (PtGtsf1) and found that its role as a PIWI-cofactor is conserved. PtGtsf1 interacts with PIWI (Ptiwi09) and Polycomb Repressive Complex 2 and is essential for PIWI-dependent DNA elimination of transposons during sexual development. PtGtsf1 is crucial for the degradation of PIWI-bound small RNAs that recognize the organism's own genomic sequences. Without PtGtsf1, self-matching small RNAs are not degraded and results in an accumulation of H3K9me3 and H3K27me3, which may disturb transposon recognition. Our results demonstrate that the PIWI-GTSF1 interaction also exists in unicellular eukaryotes with a role in transposon silencing.
PXD053065	39441431	Chemosensory function of Varroa gnathosoma: transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. 	Chemosensory function of Varroa gnathosoma: Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses	chemosensation, gnathosoma, varroa	In this study, we evaluated the role of the gnathosoma (mouthparts) in chemosensing of the most devastating honey bee parasite, Varroa destructor mite. Through transcriptomic analysis, we compared the expression of putative chemosensory genes between the body parts containing the main chemosensory organs (the forelegs), gnathosoma and the rest of the body devoid of these two body parts. Furthermore, we checked the presence of chemosensory-related transcripts in the proteome of the gnathosoma. Our comparative transcriptomic analysis revealed the presence of 83 transcripts with known characteristic conserved domains belonging to eight chemosensory gene families in the three Varroa transcriptomes. Among these transcripts, 11 were significantly upregulated in the mite's forelegs, compared to 8 and 10 in the gnathosoma and body devoid of both organs, respectively. Whilst the gnathosoma and the forelegs share similar expression of some putative lipid carrier proteins, membrane-bound receptors, and associated proteins, they also differ in the expression profiles of some transcripts belonging to these protein families. This suggests two functional chemosensory organs that may differ in their chemosensory function according to specific characteristics of compounds they detect. Moreover, the higher expression of some chemosensory transcripts in the body devoid of forelegs and gnathosoma compared to the gnathosoma alone, may suggest the presence of additional function of these transcripts or alternatively presence of additional external or internal chemosensory organs. Insights into the functional annotation of a highly expressed gustatory receptor present in both organs using RNA interference (RNAi) are also revealed.
PXD054246	39442081	Detection and Quantification of Drug-Protein Adducts in Human Liver. 	Detection and Quantification of Drug-Protein Adducts in Human Liver	Adduct, CYP, CYP2C19, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP3A4, CYP3A5, Limelight, Magnum, P450, P450-Reductase, PeptideProphet, Raloxifene, Reactive Metabolite, VMC, Xenobiotic, comet	Covalent protein adducts formed by drugs or their reactive metabolites are risk factors for adverse reactions, and inactivation of cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes. Characterization of drug-protein adducts is limited due to lack of methods identifying and quantifying covalent adducts in complex matrices. This study presents a workflow that combines data-dependent and data-independent acquisition (DDA and DIA) based liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to detect very low abundance adducts resulting from CYP mediated drug metabolism in human liver microsomes (HLMs). HLMs were incubated with raloxifene as a model compound and adducts were detected in 78 proteins, including CYP3A and CYP2C family enzymes. Experiments with recombinant CYP3A and CYP2C enzymes confirmed adduct formation in all CYPs tested, including CYPs not subject to time-dependent inhibition by raloxifene. These data suggest adducts can be benign. DIA analysis showed variable adduct abundance in many peptides between livers, but no concomitant decrease of unadducted peptides. This study sets a new standard for adduct detection in complex samples, offering insights into the human adductome resulting from reactive metabolite exposure. The methodology presented will aid mechanistic studies to identify, quantify and differentiate between adducts that result in adverse drug reactions and those that are benign.
PXD032305	39442693	High-throughput and high-sensitivity biomarker monitoring in body fluid by fast LC SureQuant(TM) IS targeted quantitation. 	High-throughput and high-sensitivity biomarker monitoring in body fluid by fast LC SureQuant IS targeted quantitation	IS-PRM, SureQuant, biofluids, biomarker quantification, high throughput, targeted proteomics	Targeted proteomics methods have been greatly improved and refined over the last decade and are becoming increasingly the method of choice in protein and peptide quantitative assays. Despite the tremendous progress, targeted proteomics assays still suffer from inadequate sensitivity for lower abundant proteins and throughput, especially in complex biological samples. These attributes are essential for establishing targeted proteomics methods at the forefront of clinical use. Here, we report an assay utilizing the SureQuant(TM) internal standard triggered targeted method on a latest generation mass spectrometer coupled with an EvoSep One liquid chromatography platform, which displays high sensitivity and a high throughput of 100 samples per day (SPD). We demonstrate the robustness of this method by quantifying proteins spanning six orders of magnitude in human wound fluid exudates, a biological fluid that exhibits sample complexity and composition similar to plasma. Among the targets quantified were low-abundance proteins such at tumor necrosis factor A (TNFA) and interleukin 1-beta (IL1B), highlighting the value of this method in the quantification of trace amounts of invaluable biomarkers that were until recently hardly accessible by targeted proteomics methods. Taken together, this method extends the toolkit of targeted proteomics assays and will help to drive forward mass spectrometry-based proteomics biomarker quantification.
PXD042099	39443477	Soluble form of Lingo2, an autism spectrum disorder-associated molecule, functions as an excitatory synapse organizer in neurons. 	Secretome protein enrichment with click sugars (SPECS) analysis on primary neurons cultured from embryos derived from pregnant mice treated with or without valproic acid	SPECS, primary neuron, valproic acid	Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) is a developmental disorder characterized by impaired social communication and repetitive behaviors. In recent years, a pharmacological mouse model of ASD involving maternal administration of valproic acid (VPA) has become widely used. Newborn pups in this model show an abnormal balance between excitatory and inhibitory (E/I) signaling in neurons and exhibit ASD-like behavior. However, the molecular basis of this model and its implications for the pathogenesis of ASD in humans remain unknown. Using quantitative secretome analysis, we found that the level of leucine-rich repeat and immunoglobulin domain-containing protein 2 (Lingo2) was upregulated in the conditioned medium of VPA model neurons. This upregulation was associated with excitatory synaptic organizer activity. The secreted form of the extracellular domain of Lingo2 (sLingo2) is produced by the transmembrane metalloprotease ADAM10 through proteolytic processing. sLingo2 was found to induce the formation of excitatory synapses in both mouse and human neurons, and treatment with sLingo2 resulted in an increased frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents in human neurons. These findings suggest that sLingo2 is an excitatory synapse organizer involved in ASD, and further understanding of the mechanisms by which sLingo2 induces excitatory synaptogenesis is expected to advance our understanding of the pathogenesis of ASD.
PXD043874	39443544	Profiling of urinary extracellular vesicle protein signatures from patients with cribriform and intraductal prostate carcinoma in a cross-sectional study. 	Elucidation of urinary extracellular vesicle protein signatures from patients with cribriform and intraductal prostate carcinoma	cribriform, intraductal prostate carcinoma, liquid chromatography mass spectrometry, urinary extracellular vesicles	Prognostic tests and treatment approaches for optimized clinical care of prostatic neoplasms are an unmet need. Prostate cancer (PCa) and derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) proteome changes occur during initiation and progression of the disease. PCa tissue proteome has been previously characterized, but screening of tissue samples constitutes an invasive procedure. Consequently, we focused this study on liquid biopsies, such as urine samples. More specifically, urinary small extracellular vesicle and particles proteome profiles of 100 subjects were analyzed using liquid chromatography coupled to high-resolution mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). We identified 171 proteins that were differentially expressed between intraductal prostate cancer/cribriform (IDC/Crib) and non-IDC/non-Crib after correction for multiple testing. However, the strong correlation between IDC/Crib and Gleason Grade complicates the disentanglement of the underlying factors driving this association. Nevertheless, even after accounting for multiple testing and adjusting for ISUP (International Society of Urological Pathology) grading, two proteins continued to exhibit significant differential expression between IDC/Crib and non-IDC/non-Crib. Functional enrichment analysis based on cancer hallmark proteins disclosed a clear pattern of androgen response down-regulation in urinary EVs from IDC/Crib compared to non-IDC/non-Crib. Interestingly, proteome differences between IDC and cribriform were more subtle, suggesting high proteome heterogeneity. Overall, the urinary EV proteome reflected partly the prostate pathology.
PXD052794	39443613	Preliminary proteomic analysis of mouse lung tissue treated with cyclophosphamide and Venetin-1. 	The effect of Venetin-1 against cyclophosphamide-induced lung toxicity in mice	Cyclophosphamide, SWATH, earthworm, immunosuppression, lungs	Cyclophosphamide (CPAm) is a widely used chemotherapeutic agent that exhibits potent anti-cancer properties but is often associated with debilitating side effects. Despite its efficacy, the management of CPAm-induced toxicities remains a significant clinical challenge. There has been growing interest in exploring complementary and alternative therapies to mitigate these adverse effects in recent years, and this may be a chance for the earthworm-derived preparation, Venetin-1. Its rich composition of bioactive compounds has demonstrated promising pharmacological properties, including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and immunomodulatory effects. These properties suggest its potential to counteract various systemic toxicities induced by CPAm. We conducted a comprehensive study to investigate the effect of Venetin-1 on cyclophosphamide-induced toxicity. Mice were administered CPAm for four days, followed by application of the earthworm preparation in two doses (50 mg/kg and 100 mg/kg b.w). Importantly, the preparation did not cause any side effects in all mice, ensuring the safety of the intervention. We then determined global changes in the proteome using proteomics and quantitative SWATH-MS analysis, which is a robust and reliable method. This allowed us to identify up- and downregulated proteins in each studied group, providing valuable insights into the mechanism of action of Venetin-1. As shown by the results, Venetin-1 had a significant effect on the proteome of mouse lung tissue. It was possible to determine quantitative changes in 400 proteins, and the analysis after administration of Venetin-1 showed a change in the global proteomic profile from upregulated to down-regulated. The stimulating properties of the preparation concerning the complement system were also confirmed in a separate validation experiment. Venetin-1 shows promise in reducing the harmful effects of cyclophosphamide on lung tissue. It encourages tissue regeneration, reduces inflammation, supports autophagy, and boosts the immune system. However, more research is needed to thoroughly elucidate and describe the benefits of Venetin-1.
PXD054179	39443796	Nuclear release of eIF1 restricts start-codon selection during mitosis. 	Nuclear release of eIF1 globally increases stringency of start codon selection to preserve mitotic arrest physiology	Translation, cell cycle, mitosis, ribosomes	Regulated start-codon selection has the potential to reshape the proteome through the differential production of upstream open reading frames, canonical proteins, and alternative translational isoforms(1-3). However, conditions under which start codon selection is altered remain poorly defined. Here, using transcriptome-wide translation-initiation-site profiling(4), we reveal a global increase in the stringency of start-codon selection during mammalian mitosis. Low-efficiency initiation sites are preferentially repressed in mitosis, resulting in pervasive changes in the translation of thousands of start sites and their corresponding protein products. This enhanced stringency of start-codon selection during mitosis results from increased association between the 40S ribosome and the key regulator of start-codon selection, eIF1. We find that increased eIF1-40S ribosome interaction during mitosis is mediated by the release of a nuclear pool of eIF1 upon nuclear envelope breakdown. Selectively depleting the nuclear pool of eIF1 eliminates the change to translational stringency during mitosis, resulting in altered synthesis of thousands of protein isoforms. In addition, preventing mitotic translational rewiring results in substantially increased cell death and decreased mitotic slippage in cells that experience a mitotic delay induced by anti-mitotic chemotherapies. Thus, cells globally control stringency of translation initiation, which has critical roles during the mammalian cell cycle in preserving mitotic cell physiology.
PXD049283	39444693	Induced degradation of SNAP-fusion proteins. 	ct of PROTAC #89, which targets an endogenously SNAP-tagged clathrin light chain, on the HAP1 cell proteome	HAP1, PROTAC, clathrin	Self-labeling protein tags are an efficient means to visualize, manipulate, and isolate engineered fusion proteins with suitable chemical probes. The SNAP-tag, which covalently conjugates to benzyl-guanine and -chloropyrimidine derivatives is used extensively in fluorescence microscopy, given the availability of suitable SNAP-ligand-based probes. Here, we extend the applicability of the SNAP-tag to targeted protein degradation. We developed a set of SNAP PROteolysis TArgeting Chimeras (SNAP-PROTACs), which recruit the VHL or CRBN-ubiquitin E3 ligases to induce the degradation of SNAP-fusion proteins. Endogenous tagging enabled the visualization and the selective depletion of a SNAP-clathrin light chain fusion protein using SNAP-PROTACs. The addition of PROTACs to the SNAP-tag reagent toolbox facilitates the comprehensive analysis of protein function with a single gene tagging event.
PXD046130	39445049	Engineering a cleaved, prefusion-stabilized influenza B virus hemagglutinin by identification and locking of all six pH switches. 	Intact mass LC-MS analysis of Flu B HA1 and HA2 proteins	Flu B, HA1, HA2, intact mass	Vaccine components based on viral fusion proteins require high stability of the native prefusion conformation for optimal potency and manufacturability. In the case of influenza B virus hemagglutinin (HA), the stem's conformation relies on efficient cleavage. In this study, we identified six pH-sensitive regions distributed across the entire ectodomain where protonated histidines assume either a repulsive or an attractive role. Substitutions in these areas enhanced the protein's expression, quality, and stability in its prefusion trimeric state. Importantly, this stabilization enabled the production of a cleavable HA0, which is further processed into HA1 and HA2 by furin during exocytic pathway passage, thereby facilitating correct folding, increased stability, and screening for additional stabilizing substitutions in the core of the metastable fusion domain. Cryo-EM analysis at neutral and low pH revealed a previously unnoticed pH switch involving the C-terminal residues of the natively cleaved HA1. This switch keeps the fusion peptide in a clamped state at neutral pH, averting premature conformational shift. Our findings shed light on new strategies for possible improvements of recombinant or genetic-based influenza B vaccines.
PXD048694	39445827	Tetrameric INTS6-SOSS1 complex facilitates DNA:RNA hybrid autoregulation at double-strand breaks. 	INTS6-SOSS1 complex facilitates DNA:RNA hybrid autoregulation at double- strand breaks	INT6 complex, INTS6, INTS6SETX	DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) represent a lethal form of DNA damage that can trigger cell death or initiate oncogenesis. The activity of RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) at the break site is required for efficient DSB repair. However, the regulatory mechanisms governing the transcription cycle at DSBs are not well understood. Here, we show that Integrator complex subunit 6 (INTS6) associates with the heterotrimeric sensor of ssDNA (SOSS1) complex (comprising INTS3, INIP and hSSB1) to form the tetrameric SOSS1 complex. INTS6 binds to DNA:RNA hybrids and promotes Protein Phosphatase 2A (PP2A) recruitment to DSBs, facilitating the dephosphorylation of RNAPII. Furthermore, INTS6 prevents the accumulation of damage-associated RNA transcripts (DARTs) and the stabilization of DNA:RNA hybrids at DSB sites. INTS6 interacts with and promotes the recruitment of senataxin (SETX) to DSBs, facilitating the resolution of DNA:RNA hybrids/R-loops. Our results underscore the significance of the tetrameric SOSS1 complex in the autoregulation of DNA:RNA hybrids and efficient DNA repair.
PXD052074	39446303	Atrial cardiomyopathy resulting from loss of plakophilin-2 expression: Response to adrenergic stimulation and implications for the exercise response. 	RyR2 phosphorylation profile in PKP2cKO mice	Immunoprecipitation, Phosphorylation, RyR2	Atrial arrhythmias occur in 20-40% of patients with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC) and are associated with an increased risk of sustained ventricular arrhythmias and inappropriate implantable cardioverter-defibrillator shocks. The pathophysiology of atrial arrhythmias in ARVC remains unclear. Most cases of gene-positive ARVC are linked to pathogenic variants in the desmosomal gene plakophilin-2 (PKP2). Here, we test the hypothesis that loss of PKP2 expression leads to pro-arrhythmic changes in atrial cardiomyocytes. Atrial cells/tissue were obtained from a cardiac-specific, tamoxifen-activated model of PKP2 deficiency (PKP2cKO). By contrast to PKP2cKO ventricular myocytes, PKP2cKO atrial cardiomyocytes presented no significant differences in intracellular calcium (Ca(2+) i) transient dynamics, sarcoplasmic reticulum load or action potential morphology. PKP2cKO atrial cardiomyocytes showed elevated reactive oxygen species levels, increased frequency and amplitude of Ca(2+) sparks, and increased diastolic [Ca(2+)]i compared to control; the latter two parameters were further increased by isoproterenol exposure and reversed by exposure to ryanodine receptor blocker dantrolene. We speculate that these isoproterenol-dependent effects may impact on the exercise-related atrial arrhythmia risk in ARVC patients. Despite absence of changes in Ca(2+) i transient dynamics, PKP2cKO atrial cardiomyocytes showed enhanced sarcomere shortening and impaired sarcomere relaxation. Orthogonal transcriptomic analysis of human(GTEx) and PKP2cKO atrial tissue led to identification of 41 transcripts depending on PKP2 expression. Biochemical follow-up confirmed reduced abundance of sarcomeric protein myosin binding protein C, potentially playing a role in cellular shortening and relaxation changes observed. Our findings provide novel insights into the role of PKP2 in atrial myocardium with potential implications to therapeutic management of atrial fibrillation in patients with PKP2-related ARVC. KEY POINTS: Atrial arrhythmias occur in a large group of patients with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC), a cardiac disease mostly caused by pathogenic variants in the desmosomal gene plakophilin-2 (PKP2). Exercise is considered to be an independent risk factor for arrhythmias consequent to PKP2 deficiency. We show that loss of PKP2 expression affects cellular calcium handling and electrophysiology differently in left atrial vs. ventricular myocardium and causes extensive atrial fibrosis. PKP2-deficient atrial cardiomyocytes present increased spontaneous sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium release events, further enhanced by isoproterenol exposure and reversible by a ryanodine receptor blocker (dantrolene). In addition, PKP2-deficient atrial myocytes exhibit impaired relaxation and enhanced sarcomere shortening, most probably related to reduced abundance of myosin binding protein C. We speculate that cellular effects reported upon isoproterenol impact on the exercise-related atrial arrhythmia risk in ARVC patients. We further propose that therapeutic approaches aimed at mitigating ventricular damage may be effective to treat the atrial disease in ARVC.
PXD045537	39446960	Multi-omics landscape and molecular basis of radiation tolerance in a tardigrade. 	Proteomic analysis of Hypsibius henanensis sp.nov. suffered from 12C6+ heavy ion radiation based on label-free technology	Hypsibius henanensis sp.nov., heavy ion irradiation	Tardigrades are captivating organisms known for their resilience in extreme environments, including ultra-high-dose radiation, but the underlying mechanisms of this resilience remain largely unknown. Using genome, transcriptome, and proteome analysis of Hypsibius henanensis sp. nov., we explored the molecular basis contributing to radiotolerance in this organism. A putatively horizontally transferred gene, DOPA dioxygenase 1 (DODA1), responds to radiation and confers radiotolerance by synthesizing betalains-a type of plant pigment with free radical-scavenging properties. A tardigrade-specific radiation-induced disordered protein, TRID1, facilitates DNA damage repair through a mechanism involving phase separation. Two mitochondrial respiratory chain complex assembly proteins, BCS1 and NDUFB8, accumulate to accelerate nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD(+)) regeneration for poly(adenosine diphosphate-ribosyl)ation (PARylation) and subsequent poly(adenosine diphosphate-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1)-mediated DNA damage repair. These three observations expand our understanding of mechanisms of tardigrade radiotolerance.
PXD056593	39447086	Identification of ANXA1 as a Novel Upstream Negative Regulator of Notch1 Function in AML. 	Identification of ANXA1 as A Novel Upstream Negative Regulator of Notch1 Function in AML	Acute myeloid leukemia, Annexin A1, Notch1, Peptide inhibitors	Abnormal Notch1 expression has an important role in tumorigenesis. However, upstream control mechanisms for Notch1 are still insufficiently understood. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is one of the most common and lethal blood malignancies with limited possibilities for treatment. Thus, new therapeutic targets are urgently needed to improve current ineffective therapies. Herein, high Annexin A1 (ANXA1) expression is found correlated with hyperproliferation of AML cells, and then ANXA1 is identified as a novel negative regulator of Notch1 function in AML. Mechanistically, ANXA1 directly bound to the intracellular domain of Notch1 (NICD) to target this tumor suppressor for degradation. Furthermore, NICD executed its tumor suppressive function through activation of the p15 promoter. Thus, ablation of the Notch1-p15-mediated tumor suppression by ANXA1 provided a novel mechanism of AML proliferation. In human AML patients, a mutual exclusive relation is discovered between ANXA1 and Notch1/p15, corroborating mechanistic discovery. On the basis of these results, it is reasonably speculated that targeting ANXA1 would provide an effective approach for treatment of AML. In support of this new therapeutic paradigm, provided proof-of-concept data by antagonizing ANXA1 using NICD inhibitory peptides.
PXD056528	39447324	MALDI MSI Protocol for Spatial Bottom-Up Proteomics at Single-Cell Resolution. 	Bottom-up spatial proteomics MALDI MSI	MALDI MSI, spatial proteomics	Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) started with spatial mapping of peptides and proteins. Since then, numerous bottom-up protocols have been developed. However, achievable spatial resolution and sample preparation with many wet steps hindered the development of single cell-level workflows for bottom-up spatial proteomics. This study presents a protocol optimized for MALDI-MSI measurements of single cells within the context of their 2D culture. Sublimation of CHCA, followed by a dip in ice-cold ammonium phosphate monobasic (AmP), produced peptide-rich mass spectra while maintaining matrix crystal sizes around 400 nm. This enables MALDI-MSI imaging of proteins in single cells grown on an ITO slide with a throughput of approximately 7800 cells per day. 89 peptide-like features corresponding to a single MDA-MB-231 breast cancer cell were detected. Furthermore, by combining the MALDI-MSI data with LC-MS/MS data obtained on cell pellets, we have successfully identified 24 peptides corresponding to 17 proteins, including actin, vimentin, and transgelin-2.
PXD052190	39448584	NEK4 modulates circadian fluctuations of emotional behaviors and synaptogenesis in male mice. 	The bipolar disorder GWAS risk gene NEK4 modulates circadian fluctuations of murine emotional behaviors and synaptogenesis	Bipolar disorder, circadian fluctuations, dendritic spine morphogenesis, emotional behaviors, genome-wide association study, synaptogenesis	GWASs have linked the 3p21.1 locus, which is associated with the expression levels of NEK4, to bipolar disorder. Here, we use integrative analyses of GWAS statistics and eQTL annotations to establish that elevated NEK4 expression in the hippocampus is associated with an increased risk of bipolar disorder. To further study this association, we generate transgenic male mice that conditionally overexpress NEK4 in the pyramidal neurons of the adult forebrain, or use AAV to overexpress NEK4 in the dorsal hippocampus. Compared to the control mice, male mice of both strains exhibit a shift from a diurnal anxiety state to a nocturnal normal or anxiolytic-like state. Overexpression of NEK4 also affects the circadian fluctuations in dendritic spine morphology and synaptic structure. Furthermore, we show that treatment with lithium ameliorates the effects of NEK4 overexpression in male mice. We then perform phosphoproteomic analyses to demonstrate that the diurnal and nocturnal phosphoproteomic profiles of male control and NEK4 overexpressing mice are different. These results suggest that male mice with different NEK4 expression levels may recapitulate some of the core features observed in patients with bipolar disorder, indicating that interruption of the homeostatic dynamics of synapses may underlie the emotional swings in bipolar disorder.
PXD040998	39448645	Epigenetic modulation via the C-terminal tail of H2A.Z. 	EPIGENETIC MODULATION IN LIVE CELLS USING A PEPTIDE OF THE C-TERMINAL UNSTRUCTURED TAIL OF H2A.Z	epigenetics, histone, nucleosome stability	H2A.Z-nucleosomes are present in both euchromatin and heterochromatin and it has proven difficult to interpret their disparate roles in the context of their stability features. Using an in situ assay of nucleosome stability and DT40 cells expressing engineered forms of the histone variant we show that native H2A.Z, but not C-terminally truncated H2A.Z (H2A.ZincrementC), is released from nucleosomes of peripheral heterochromatin at unusually high salt concentrations. H2A.Z and H3K9me3 landscapes are reorganized in H2A.ZincrementC-nuclei and overall sensitivity of chromatin to nucleases is increased. These tail-dependent differences are recapitulated upon treatment of HeLa nuclei with the H2A.Z-tail-peptide (C9), with MNase sensitivity being increased genome-wide. Fluorescence correlation spectroscopy revealed C9 binding to reconstituted nucleosomes. When introduced into live cells, C9 elicited chromatin reorganization, overall nucleosome destabilization and changes in gene expression. Thus, H2A.Z-nucleosomes influence global chromatin architecture in a tail-dependent manner, what can be modulated by introducing the tail-peptide into live cells.
PXD032223	39449274	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Brassica Napus Reveals Intersections Between Nutrient Deficiency Responses. 	Systems-level nutrient stress analysis of soil grown Brassica napus shoots and roots by quantitative proteomics	BoxCarDIA, Brassica napus, nutrient stress, quantitative proteomics, roots, shoots	Macronutrients such as nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), potassium (K) and sulphur (S) are critical for plant growth and development. Field-grown canola (Brassica napus L.) is supplemented with fertilizers to maximize plant productivity, while deficiency in these nutrients can cause significant yield loss. A holistic understanding of the interplay between these nutrient deficiency responses in a single study and canola cultivar is thus far lacking, hindering efforts to increase the nutrient use efficiency of this important oil seed crop. To address this, we performed a comparative quantitative proteomic analysis of both shoot and root tissue harvested from soil-grown canola plants experiencing either nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium or sulphur deficiency. Our data provide critically needed insights into the shared and distinct molecular responses to macronutrient deficiencies in canola. Importantly, we find more conserved responses to the four different nutrient deficiencies in canola roots, with more distinct proteome changes in aboveground tissue. Our results establish a foundation for a more comprehensive understanding of the shared and distinct nutrient deficiency response mechanisms of canola plants and pave the way for future breeding efforts.
PXD053117	39449499	Protein Extraction Methods Suitable for Muscle Tissue Proteomic Analysis. 	Protein Extraction methods suitable for muscle tissue proteomic analysis	muscle tissue, myopathies., protein denaturation, two-dimensional electrophoresis	Muscle tissue is one of the most dynamic and plastic tissues of the mammalian body and covers different roles, such as force generation and metabolic control. Muscular proteomics provides an important opportunity to reveal the molecular mechanisms behind muscle pathophysiology. To ensure successful proteomic analysis, it is necessary to have an efficient and reproducible protein extraction method. This study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of two different extraction protocols of muscle samples for two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. In particular, mouse muscle proteins were extracted by an SDS-based buffer (Method A) and by a UREA/CHAPS/DTE/TRIS solution (Method B). The efficacies of the methods were assessed by performing an image analysis of the 2DE gels and by statistical and multivariate analyses. The 2DE gels in both preparations showed good resolution and good spot overlapping. Methods A and B produced 2DE gels with different means of total spots, higher for B. Image analysis showed different patterns of protein abundance between the protocols. The results showed that the two methods extract and solubilize proteins with different chemical-physical characteristics and different cellular localizations. These results attest the efficacy and reproducibility of both protein extraction methods, which can be parallelly applied for comprehensive proteomic profiling of muscle tissue.
PXD047227	39449500	Towards Characterization of Hass Avocado Peel and Pulp Proteome during Postharvest Shelf Life. 	Molecular and structural features of Hass Avocado's peel as major modulators of its postharvest shelf life	Avocado, TMT	In recent years, avocados have gained worldwide popularity as a nutritive food. This trend is causing a rise in the production of this fruit, which is accompanied by several problems associated with monocultural practices. Despite massive economic gains, limited molecular and structural information has been generated about avocado ripening. In fact, limited studies have attempted to unravel the proteome complexity dynamics of avocado fruit. We therefore conducted a comparative proteomics study on avocado peel and pulp during the postharvest shelf life using tandem mass tag synchronous precursor selection triple-stage mass spectrometry. We identified 3161 and 1128 proteins in the peel and pulp, respectively. Peels exhibited major over-accumulation of proteins associated with water deprivation and oxidative stress, along with abscisic acid biosynthesis. Ethylene, jasmonic acid, phenylpropanoid, and flavonoid biosynthesis pathways were activated. Structurally, we observed the accumulation of lignin and a reduction in cuticular thickness, which coincides with the reduction in the levels of long-chain acyl-coenzyme A synthetase and a marginal increase in 10,16-dihydroxyhexadecanoic acid. Our study sheds light on the association of proteome modulation with the structural features of Hass avocado. Its detailed characterization will provide an alternative for better preservation during the postharvest period.
PXD053505	39450271	Discovery and design of molecular glue enhancers of CDK12-DDB1 interactions for targeted degradation of cyclin K. 	Discovery and design of molecular glue enhancers of CDK12-DDB1 interactions for targeted degradation of cyclin K	CDK12, Cyclin K, Molecular Glue Degraders	The CDK12 inhibitor SR-4835 promotes the proteasomal degradation of cyclin K, contingent on the presence of CDK12 and the CUL4-RBX1-DDB1 E3 ligase complex. The inhibitor displays molecular glue activity, which correlates with its enhanced ability to inhibit cell growth. This effect is achieved by facilitating the formation of a ternary complex that requires the small molecule SR-4835, CDK12, and the adaptor protein DDB1, leading to the subsequent ubiquitination and degradation of cyclin K. We have successfully solved the structure of the ternary complex, enabling the de novo design of molecular glues that transform four different CDK12 scaffold inhibitors, including the clinical pan-CDK inhibitor dinaciclib, into cyclin K degraders. These results not only deepen our understanding of CDK12's role in cell regulation but also underscore significant progress in designing molecular glues for targeted protein degradation in cancers associated with dysregulated cyclin K activity.
PXD015297	39450948	A Novel Role for FERM Domain-Containing Protein 3 (FRMD3) in CKD. 	FERM domain protein 3 Kidney Biopsy	Kidney Human FERM domain protein 3	BACKGROUND: Currently there are limited methods to link disease severity and risk of disease progression in Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD). To better understand this potential relationship, we interrogated the renal transcriptomic profile of individuals with CKD with measures of CKD severity and identified FERM-domain containing protein 3 (FRMD3) as a candidate gene for follow-up study. METHODS: RNA-seq was used to profile the transcriptome of CKD biopsies from the North Dublin Renal BioBank the results of which were correlated with clinical parameters. The potential function of FRMD3 was explored by interrogating the FRMD3 interactome and assessing the impact of lentiviral mediated FRMD3 knock down on human renal proximal tubule epithelial cells by assessing cell viability, metabolic activity, and structural markers. RESULTS: We identified a subset of 93 genes which are significantly correlated with estimated glomerular filtration rate and percentage tubulointerstitial fibrosis at time of biopsy and with CKD progression 5 years post-biopsy. These results were validated against transcriptomic data from an external cohort of 432 nephrectomy samples. One of the top-ranking genes from this subset, FRMD3, has previously been associated with the risk of developing diabetic kidney disease. Interrogating the interactome of FRMD3 in tubule epithelial cells revealed interactions with cytoskeletal components of cell-cell junctions. Knockdown of FRMD3 expression in tubule epithelial cells resulted in increased pro-apoptotic activity within the cells as well as dysregulation of E-Cadherin. CONCLUSIONS: We have identified a panel of kidney-specific transcripts correlated with severity and progression of kidney disease, and from this have identified a possible role for FRMD3 in tubule cell structure and health.
PXD055377	39451262	Comparative Analysis of Extracellular Vesicles from Cytotoxic CD8(+) alphabeta T Cells and gammadelta T Cells. 	Comparative analysis of intra- and extracellular vesicles from cytotoxic CD8+ alphabeta T cells and gammadelta T cells	CD8+ T cells, cytotoxic T cells, cytotoxic effector proteins, cytotoxic granules, exosomes, extracellular vesicles (EVs), lysosome-related effector vesicles (LREVs), proteomic profiling, alphabeta T cells, gammadelta T cells	BACKGROUND: Although belonging to different branches of the immune system, cytotoxic CD8(+) alphabeta T cells and gammadelta T cells utilize common cytolytic effectors including FasL, granzymes, perforin and granulysin. The effector proteins are stored in different subsets of lysosome-related effector vesicles (LREVs) and released to the immunological synapse upon target cell encounter. Notably, in activated cells, LREVs and potentially other vesicles are continuously produced and released as extracellular vesicles (EVs). Presumably, EVs serve as mediators of intercellular communication in the local microenvironment or at distant sites. METHODS: EVs of activated and expanded cytotoxic CD8(+) alphabeta T cells or gammadelta T cells were enriched from culture supernatants by differential and ultracentrifugation and characterized by nanoparticle tracking analyses and Western blotting. For a comparative proteomic profiling, EV preparations from both cell types were isobaric labeled with tandem mass tags (TMT10plex) and subjected to mass spectrometry analysis. RESULTS: 686 proteins were quantified in EV preparations of cytotoxic CD8(+) alphabeta T cells and gammadelta T cells. Both populations shared a major set of similarly abundant proteins, while much fewer proteins presented higher abundance levels in either CD8(+) alphabeta T cells or gammadelta T cells. To our knowledge, we provide the first comparative analysis of EVs from cytotoxic CD8(+) alphabeta T cells and gammadelta T cells.
PXD054665	39452600	Proteomic Analysis of Human Serum Proteins Adsorbed onto Collagen Barrier Membranes. 	Adsorption of human serum proteins of collagen membranes	guided bone regeneration, human serum	Collagen barrier membranes are frequently used in guided tissue and bone regeneration. The aim of this study was to analyze the signature of human serum proteins adsorbed onto collagen membranes using a novel protein extraction method combined with mass spectrometry. Native porcine-derived collagen membranes (Geistlich Bio-Gide((R)), Wolhusen, Switzerland) were exposed to pooled human serum in vitro and, after thorough washing, subjected to protein extraction either in conjunction with protein enrichment or via a conventional surfactant-based method. The extracted proteins were analyzed via liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry. Bioinformatic analysis of global profiling, gene ontology, and functional enrichment of the identified proteins was performed. Overall, a total of 326 adsorbed serum proteins were identified. The enrichment and conventional methods yielded similar numbers of total (315 vs. 309), exclusive (17 vs. 11), and major bone-related proteins (18 vs. 14). Most of the adsorbed proteins (n = 298) were common to both extraction groups and included several growth factors, extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins, cell adhesion molecules, and angiogenesis mediators involved in bone regeneration. Functional analyses revealed significant enrichment of ECM, exosomes, immune response, and cell growth components. Key proteins [transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGFbeta1), insulin-like growth factor binding proteins (IGFBP-5, -6, -7)] were exclusively detected with the enrichment-based method. In summary, native collagen membranes exhibited a high protein adsorption capacity in vitro. While both extraction methods were effective, the enrichment-based method showed distinct advantages in detecting specific bone-related proteins. Therefore, the use of multiple extraction methods is advisable in studies investigating protein adsorption on biomaterials.
PXD054994	39452750	BONCAT-iTRAQ Labelling Reveals Molecular Markers of Adaptive Responses in Toxoplasma gondii to Pyrimethamine Treatment. 	Molecular markers of adaptive responses in Toxoplasma gondii to Pyrimethamine treatment	BONCAT, Toxoplasma gondii, iTRAQ, pyrimethamine, quantitative proteomics	We employed a BONCAT-iTRAQ labelling approach to investigate newly synthesised proteins (NSPs) in Toxoplasma gondii subjected to varying concentrations of the antifolate drug pyrimethamine. Our results reveal that numerous NSPs exhibited altered expression levels in response to the drug, with significant upregulation observed at higher concentrations. Key proteins involved in protein synthesis, stress responses, energy metabolism, and cytoskeletal dynamics were identified, indicating that T. gondii undergoes complex adaptive responses to pyrimethamine treatment. While some of the identified pathways reflect a generic stress response, this study provides important molecular markers and mechanistic insights specific to the parasite's adaptation strategies. These findings contribute to understanding how T. gondii modulates its proteome in response to drug-induced stress and lay the groundwork for further investigations into potential therapeutic targets.
PXD036980	39454000	Mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation drives senescence. 	DNA damage response signaling to mitochondria drives senescence		Cellular senescence is a stress-induced irreversible cell cycle arrest involved in tumor suppression and aging. Many stresses, such as telomere shortening and oncogene activation, induce senescence by damaging nuclear DNA. However, the mechanisms linking DNA damage to senescence remain unclear. Here, we show that DNA damage response (DDR) signaling to mitochondria triggers senescence. A genome-wide small interfering RNA screen implicated the outer mitochondrial transmembrane protein BNIP3 in senescence induction. We found that BNIP3 is phosphorylated by the DDR kinase ataxia telangiectasia mutated (ATM) and contributes to an increase in the number of mitochondrial cristae. Stable isotope labeling metabolomics indicated that the increase in cristae enhances fatty acid oxidation (FAO) to acetyl-coenzyme A (acetyl-CoA). This promotes histone acetylation and expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p16(INK4a). Notably, pharmacological activation of FAO alone induced senescence both in vitro and in vivo. Thus, mitochondrial energy metabolism plays a critical role in senescence induction and is a potential intervention target to control senescence.
PXD046945	39454958	The nuclear transportation of CHRONO regulates the circadian rhythm. 	Potential proteins interated with CHRONO in human U2OS cells	CHRONO, IP-MS, U2OS cell	The pace of the endogenous circadian clock is important for organisms to maintain homeostasis. CHRONO has been shown to be a core component of the mammalian clock and has recently been implicated to function in several important physiological aspects. To function properly, CHRONO needs to enter the nucleus to repress transcription. We have previously shown that the N-terminus of CHRONO is required for its nuclear entry. However, how CHRONO enters the nucleus and regulates the circadian clock remains unknown. Here, we report that a novel non-classical nuclear localization signal (NLS) in the N-terminus of CHRONO is responsible for its nuclear entry. Multiple nuclear transporters are identified that facilitate the nuclear import of CHRONO. We show that the Arg63 is the critical amino acid of the NLS. Using prime editing technology, we precisely edit the Arg63 to Ala at the genomic loci and demonstrate that this mutation prolongs the circadian period, which is similar to knockdown of CHRONO. By using the CHRONO knockout and R63A mutant cells, we also investigated the changes in the cytoplasmic/nuclear distribution of BMAL1. We show that BMAL1 localizes more in the cytoplasm in the deficiency of CHRONO nuclear entry. These results provide a model for CHRONO nuclear entry using a network of importins involved in the regulation of the circadian period.
PXD050180	39455705	The Atlantic Cod MHC I compartment has the properties needed for cross-presentation in the absence of MHC II. 	The Atlantic cod MHC I compartment has the properties needed for cross-presentation in the absence of MHC II	Atlantic cod, MHC I, cross-presentation, endosomal pathway	Atlantic cod has a peculiar immune system, characterized by the loss of Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) class II pathway, and an extreme expansion of the MHC class I gene repertoire. This has led to the hypothesis that some of the MHC I variants have replaced MHC II by presenting exogenous-peptides in a process similar to cross-presentation. In mammals, MHC I loads endogenous antigens in the endoplasmic reticulum, but we recently found that different Atlantic cod MHC I gene variants traffic to endolysosomes. There, they colocalize with Tapasin and other components of the peptide-loading complex, indicating a plausible peptide-loading system outside the endoplasmic reticulum. In this study, we further characterize the identity of the Atlantic cod MHC I compartment (cMIC). We found that, similarly to mammalian MHC II compartment, cMIC contains late endosomal markers such as Rab7, LAMP1 and CD63. Furthermore, we identified Hsp90b1 (also known as grp94) and LRP1 (also known as CD91) as interactors of MHC I by mass spectrometry. As these two proteins are involved in cross-presentation in mammals, this further suggests that Atlantic cod MHC I might use a similar mechanism to present exogenous peptides, thus, compensating for the absence of MHC II.
PXD042371	39455851	miR-124 coordinates metabolic regulators acting at early stages of human neurogenesis. 	miR-124 coordinates metabolic regulators acting at early stages of human neurogenesis	miRNA, nerogenesis	Metabolic dysregulation of neurons is associated with diverse human brain disorders. Metabolic reprogramming occurs during neuronal differentiation, but it is not fully understood which molecules regulate metabolic changes at the early stages of neurogenesis. In this study, we report that miR-124 is a driver of metabolic change at the initiating stage of human neurogenesis. Proteome analysis has shown the oxidative phosphorylation pathway to be the most significantly altered among the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in the immature neurons after the knockdown of miR-124. In agreement with these proteomics results, miR-124-depleted neurons display mitochondrial dysfunctions, such as decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and cellular respiration. Moreover, morphological analyses of mitochondria in early differentiated neurons after miR-124 knockdown result in smaller and less mature shapes. Lastly, we show the potential of identified DEPs as novel metabolic regulators in early neuronal development by validating the effects of GSTK1 on cellular respiration. GSTK1, which is upregulated most significantly in miR-124 knockdown neurons, reduces the oxygen consumption rate of neural cells. Collectively, our data highlight the roles of miR-124 in coordinating metabolic maturation at the early stages of neurogenesis and provide insights into potential metabolic regulators associated with human brain disorders characterized by metabolic dysfunctions.
PXD056932	39456139	Impact of SDF-1 and AMD3100 on Hair Follicle Dynamics in a Chronic Stress Model. 	Impact of SDF-1 and AMD3100 on Hair Follicle Dynamics in a Chronic Stress Model	Chronic Stress	Chronic stress is a common cause of hair loss, involving inflammatory responses and changes in cellular signaling pathways. This study explores the mechanism of action of the SDF-1/CXCR4 signaling axis in chronic stress-induced hair loss. The research indicates that SDF-1 promotes hair follicle growth through the PI3K/Akt and JAK/STAT signaling pathways. Transcriptome sequencing analysis was conducted to identify differentially expressed genes in the skin of normal and stressed mice, with key genes SDF-1/CXCR4 selected through machine learning and a protein-protein interaction network established. A chronic stress mouse model was created, with injections of SDF-1 and AMD3100 administered to observe hair growth, weight changes, and behavioral alterations and validate hair follicle activity. Skin SDF-1 concentrations were measured, differentially expressed genes were screened, and pathways were enriched. Activation of the PI3K/Akt and JAK/STAT signaling pathways was assessed, and siRNA technology was used in vitro to inhibit the expression of SDF-1 or CXCR4. SDF-1 promoted hair follicle activity, with the combined injection of SDF-1 and AMD3100 weakening this effect. The activation of the PI3K/Akt and JAK/STAT signaling pathways was observed in the SDF-1 injection group, confirmed by Western blot and immunofluorescence. Silencing SDF-1 through siRNA-mediated inhibition reduced cell proliferation and migration abilities. SDF-1 promotes hair growth in chronic stress mice by activating the PI3K/Akt and JAK/STAT pathways, an effect reversible by AMD3100. The SDF-1/CXCR4 axis may serve as a potential therapeutic target for stress-induced hair loss.
PXD053569	39456174	A Moderate Water Deficit Induces Profound Changes in the Proteome of Developing Maize Ovaries. 	Proteome changes in response to water deficit in developing maize ovules	kernel, kernel abortion, maize, ovule, ovule development, water deficit, water stress	Water deficit is a major cause of yield loss for maize (Zea mays), leading to ovary abortion when applied at flowering time. To help understand the mechanisms involved in this phenomenon, the proteome response to water deficit has been analysed in developing ovaries at the silk emergence stage and five days later. Differential analysis, abundance pattern clustering and co-expression networks were performed in order to draw a general picture of the proteome changes all along ovary development and under the effect of water deficit. The results show that even mild water deficit has a major impact on ovary proteome, but this impact is very different from a response to stress. A part of the changes can be related to a slowdown of ovary development, while another part cannot. In particular, ovaries submitted to water deficit show an increase in proteins involved in protein biosynthesis and in vesicle transport together with a decrease in proteins involved in amino acid metabolism and proteolysis. According to the functions of increased proteins, the changes may be linked to auxin, brassinosteroids and jasmonate signalling but not abscisic acid.
PXD040187	39456175	Myoblast-Derived Galectin 3 Impairs the Early Phases of Osteogenesis Affecting Notch and Akt Activity. 	MUSCLE-DERIVED GALECTIN 3 IS A NEW MEDIATOR OF MUSCLE TO BONE CROSSTALK	Bone Remodeling, Galectin 3, Muscle to bone crosstalk	Galectin-3 (Gal-3) is a pleiotropic lectin produced by most cell types, which regulates multiple cellular processes in various tissues. In bone, depending on its cellular localization, Gal-3 has a dual and opposite role. If, on the one hand, intracellular Gal-3 promotes bone formation, on the other, its circulating form affects bone remodeling, antagonizing osteoblast differentiation and increasing osteoclast activity. From an analysis of the secretome of cultured differentiating myoblasts, we interestingly found the presence of Gal-3. After that, we confirmed that Gal-3 was expressed and released in the extracellular environment from myoblast cells during their differentiation into myotubes, as well as after mechanical strain. An in vivo analysis revealed that Gal-3 was triggered by trained exercise and was specifically produced by fast muscle fibers. Speculating a role for this peptide in the muscle-to-bone cross talk, a direct co-culture in vitro system, simultaneously combining media that were obtained from differentiated myoblasts and osteoblast cells, confirmed that Gal-3 is a mediator of osteoblast differentiation. Molecular and proteomic analyses revealed that the secreted Gal-3 modulated the biochemical processes occurring in the early phases of bone formation, in particular impairing the activity of the STAT3 and PDK1/Akt signaling pathways and, at the same time, triggering that one of Notch. Circulating Gal-3 also affected the expression of the most common factors involved in osteogenetic processes, including BMP-2, -6, and -7. Intriguingly, Gal-3 was able to interfere with the ability of differentiating osteoblasts to interact with the components of the extracellular bone matrix, a crucial condition required for a proper osteoblast differentiation. All in all, our evidence lays the foundation for further studies to present this lectin as a novel myokine involved in muscle-to-bone crosstalk.
PXD052665	39456337	Proteomic Analysis of the Major Alkali-Soluble Inca Peanut (Plukenetia volubilis) Proteins. 	Proteomic analysis of the major alkali-soluble Sacha Inchi (Plukenetia volubilis) proteins	Blast2GO, PEAKS., SDS-PAGE, Sachi Inchi, alkali-soluble proteins	Sacha Inchi (Plukenetia volubilis) oil press-cake (SIPC) represents a new source of proteins of high biological value, with promissory food applications. However, knowledge of these proteins remains limited. In this study, a Sacha Inchi protein concentrate (SPC) was extracted from the SIPC, and proteomic analysis was performed to identify the major alkaline-soluble proteins. The electrophoretic profile highlighted the efficacy of alkaline pH and moderate temperature to extract the major proteins, from which a group of proteins, not previously reported, were registered. LC-MS/MS analyses produced abundant high-quality fragmentation spectra. Utilizing the Euphorbiaceae database (DB), 226 proteins were identified, with numerous well-assigned spectra remaining unidentified. PEAKS Studio v11.5 software generated 1819 high-quality de novo peptides. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD052665. Gene ontology (GO) classification allowed the identification of sequenced proteins associated with biological processes, molecular functions, and cellular components in the seed. Consequently, the principal alkali-soluble proteins from SPC were characterized through derived functional analysis, covering 24 seed-storage-, 27 defense-, and 12 carbohydrate- and lipid-metabolism-related proteins, crucial for human nutrition due to their sulfur-containing amino acids, antioxidant properties, and oil yields, respectively. This research makes a significant contribution to the current understanding of the Sacha Inchi proteome and offers valuable insights for its potential applications in the food industry.
PXD051040	39457412	Effects of Cryptorchidism on the Semen Quality of Giant Pandas from the Perspective of Seminal Plasma Proteomics. 	Proteomic profiles of giant panda spermatozoa seminal plasma	giant pandas, seminal plasma	Giant pandas are an endangered species with low reproductive rates. Cryptorchidism, which can negatively affect reproduction, is also often found in pandas. Seminal plasma plays a crucial role in sperm-environment interactions, and its properties are closely linked to conception potential in both natural and assisted reproduction. The research sought to identify seminal fluid protein content variations between normal and cryptorchid giant pandas. Methods: Using a label-free MS-based method, the semen proteomes of one panda with cryptorchidism and three normal pandas were studied, and the identified proteins were compared and functionally analyzed. Results: Mass spectrometry identified 2059 seminal plasma proteins, with 361 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Gene ontology (GO) analysis revealed that these DEPs are mainly involved in the phosphate-containing compound metabolic, hydrolase activity, and kinase activity areas (p <= 0.05). The KEGG functional enrichment analysis revealed that the top 20 pathways were notably concentrated in the adipocyte lipolysis and insulin metabolism pathway, with a significance level of p <= 0.05. Further analysis through a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network identified nine key proteins that may play crucial roles, including D2GXH8 (hexokinase Fragment), D2HSQ6 (protein tyrosine phosphatase), and G1LHZ6 (Calmodulin 2). Conclusions: We suspect that the high abundance of D2HSQ6 in cryptorchid individuals is associated with metabolic pathways, especially the insulin signal pathway, as a typical proteomic feature related to its pathological features. These findings offer insight into the ex situ breeding conditions of this threatened species.
PXD052965	39460794	Selective regulation of aspartyl intramembrane protease activity by calnexin. 	Selective regulation of aspartyl intramembrane protease activity by calnexin	Calnexin, Co-IP, SPPL2C, Signal Peptide Peptidase-Like 2c, Testis	Signal peptide peptidase-like 2c (SPPL2c) is a testis-specific aspartyl intramembrane protease that contributes to male gamete function both by catalytic and non-proteolytic mechanisms. Here, we provide an unbiased characterisation of the in vivo interactome of SPPL2c identifying the ER chaperone calnexin as novel binding partner of this enzyme. Recruitment of calnexin specifically required the N-glycosylation within the N-terminal protease-associated domain of SPPL2c. Importantly, mutation of the single glycosylation site of SPPL2c or loss of calnexin expression completely prevented SPPL2c-mediated intramembrane proteolysis of all tested substrates. By contrast and despite rather promiscuous binding of calnexin to other SPP/SPPL proteases, expression of the chaperone was exclusively required for SPPL2c-mediated proteolysis. Despite some impact on the stability of SPPL2c most presumably due to assistance in folding of the luminal domain of the protease, calnexin appeared to be recruited rather constitutively to the protease thereby boosting its catalytic activity. In summary, we describe a novel, highly specific mode of intramembrane protease regulation, highlighting the need to systematically approach control mechanisms governing the proteolytic activity of other members of the aspartyl intramembrane protease family.
PXD055553	39461958	The Dsc ubiquitin ligase complex identifies transmembrane degrons to degrade orphaned proteins at the Golgi. 	The Dsc ubiquitin ligase complex identifies transmembrane degrons to degrade orphaned proteins at the Golgi	Dsc complex, ESCRT, Golgi, degron, lipids, quality control, ubiquitin	The Golgi apparatus is essential for protein sorting, yet its quality control mechanisms are poorly understood. Here we show that the Dsc ubiquitin ligase complex uses its rhomboid pseudo-protease subunit, Dsc2, to assess the hydrophobic length of alpha-helical transmembrane domains (TMDs) at the Golgi. Thereby the Dsc complex likely interacts with orphaned ER and Golgi proteins that have shorter TMDs and ubiquitinates them for targeted degradation. Some Dsc substrates will be extracted by Cdc48 for endosome and Golgi associated proteasomal degradation (EGAD), while others will undergo ESCRT dependent vacuolar degradation. Some substrates are degraded by both, EGAD- or ESCRT pathways. The accumulation of Dsc substrates entails a specific increase in glycerophospholipids with shorter and asymmetric fatty acyl chains. Hence, the Dsc complex mediates the selective degradation of orphaned proteins at the sorting center of cells, which prevents their spreading across other organelles and thereby preserves cellular membrane protein and lipid composition.
PXD056631	39462005	Decoding the mechanical characteristics of the human anterior cruciate ligament entheses through graduated mineralization interfaces. 	Decoding the Femoral and Tibial Entheses of the Human Anterior Cruciate Ligament	ACL-femur, ACL-tibia, Enthesis, graded graduated interface tissue, micromechanics, nanoscale heterogeneity of HAp	The anterior cruciate ligament is anchored to the femur and tibia via specialized interfaces known as entheses. These play a critical role in ligament homeostasis and joint stability by transferring forces, varying in magnitude and direction between structurally and functionally dissimilar tissues. However, the precise structural and mechanical characteristics underlying the femoral and tibial entheses and their intricate interplay remain elusive. In this study, two thin-graduated mineralization regions in the femoral enthesis (~21 mum) and tibial enthesis (~14 mum) are identified, both exhibiting distinct biomolecular compositions and mineral assembly patterns. Notably, the femoral enthesis interface exhibits progressively maturing hydroxyapatites, whereas the mineral at the tibial enthesis interface region transitions from amorphous calcium phosphate to hydroxyapatites with increasing crystallinity. Proteomics results reveal that Matrix Gla protein uniquely enriched at the tibial enthesis interface, may stabilize amorphous calcium phosphate, while C-type lectin domain containing 11 A, enriched at the femoral enthesis interface, could facilitate the interface mineralization. Moreover, the finite element analysis indicates that the femoral enthesis model exhibited higher resistance to shearing, whereas the tibial enthesis model contributes to tensile resistance, suggesting that the discrepancy in biomolecular expression and the corresponding mineral assembly heterogeneities collectively contribute to the superior mechanical properties of both the femoral enthesis and tibial enthesis models. These findings provide novel perspectives on the structure-function relationships of anterior cruciate ligament entheses, paving the way for improved management of anterior cruciate ligament injury and regeneration.
PXD046033	39462388	Proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles derived from canine mammary tumour cell lines identifies protein signatures specific for disease state. 	Proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles derived from canine mammary tumour cell lines	cancer, dog, exosomes	BACKGROUND: Canine mammary tumours (CMT) are among the most common types of tumours in female dogs. Diagnosis currently requires invasive tissue biopsies and histological analysis. Tumour cells shed extracellular vesicles (EVs) containing RNAs and proteins with potential for liquid biopsy diagnostics. We aimed to identify CMT subtype-specific proteome profiles by comparing the proteomes of EVs isolated from epithelial cell lines derived from morphologically normal canine mammary tissue, adenomas, and carcinomas. METHODS: Whole-cell protein lysates (WCLs) and EV-lysates were obtained from five canine mammary cell lines: MTH53A (non-neoplastic); ZMTH3 (adenoma); MTH52C (simple carcinoma); 1305, DT1406TB (complex carcinoma); and their proteins identified by LC-MS/MS analyses. Gene Ontology analysis was performed on differentially abundant proteins from each group to identify up- and down-regulated biological processes. To establish CMT subtype-specific proteomic profiles, weighted gene correlation network analysis (WGCNA) was carried out. RESULTS: WCL and EVs displayed distinct protein abundance signatures while still showing the same increase in adhesion, migration, and motility-related proteins in carcinoma-derived cell lines, and of RNA processing and RNA splicing factors in the adenoma cell line. WGCNA identified CMT stage-specific co-abundant EV proteins, allowing the identification of adenoma and carcinoma EV signatures not seen in WCLs. CONCLUSIONS: EVs from CMT cell lines exhibit distinct protein profiles reflecting malignancy state, allowing us to identify potential biomarkers for canine mammary carcinomas, such as biglycan. Our dataset could therefore potentially serve as a basis for the development of a less invasive clinical diagnostic tool for the characterisation of CMT.
PXD052245	39462787	A Novel High-Throughput Immunoaffinity LC-MS/MS Assay for P-III-NP and Other Fragments of Type III Procollagen in Human Serum. 	A Novel High-Throughput Immunoaffinity LC-MS/MS Assay for P III-NP and other Fragments of Type III Procollagen in Human Serum	P-III-NP, collagen turnover, single-point calibrator	The amino-terminal propeptide of type III procollagen (P-III-NP) is used with IGF-I to detect the illicit use of growth hormone and to monitor growth hormone therapy. However, the only currently available assays for P-III-NP are immunoassays, which are not well harmonized. In addition, other fragments of type III procollagen may better evaluate collagen turnover. We aimed to develop a high-throughput assay using immunoaffinity enrichment coupled to ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to quantify peptides belonging to three different regions of type III procollagen in human serum simultaneously. To facilitate higher throughput, we transferred the assay from microcentrifuge tubes to a 96-well plate format with partially automated pipetting. The method was linear (Pearson's R >= 0.994) over an estimated concentration range of 1.35-13.3 nM, 0.04-2.28 nM, and 0.26-5.1 nM for each surrogate peptide of P-III-NP, collagen degradation products, and the carboxyl-terminal propeptide, respectively. Intra-day and inter-day imprecision were both < 13.6%, and the results of robustness testing were also encouraging. The method was successfully applied to capillary blood samples obtained using Tasso+ microsampling devices. Modest correlation of P-III-NP concentration was observed between our new method and a WADA-approved immunoassay (N = 40, Pearson's R = 0.789) with a significant bias of -87.8%. Our method simultaneously quantifies four peptides belonging to three regions of type III procollagen in human serum. High bias between assays highlights the need for common higher-order calibrators or reference materials to help improve the comparability of results across laboratories.
PXD049469	39462793	Chronic polypharmacy, monotherapy, and deprescribing: Understanding complex effects on the hepatic proteome of aging mice. 	Chronic polypharmacy, monotherapy, and deprescribing: Understanding complex effects on the hepatic proteome of aging mice	Aging, Citalopram, DIA, Deprescribing, Drug Response, LC-MS, Liver, Metoprolol, Oxybutynin, Oxycodone, Polypharmacy, Simvastatin	Polypharmacy (use of >=5 concurrent medications) is highly prevalent among older adults to manage chronic diseases and is linked to adverse geriatric outcomes, including physical and cognitive functional impairments, falls, frailty, hospitalization, and mortality. Deprescribing (withdrawal) is a potential strategy to manage polypharmacy. The broad molecular changes by which polypharmacy causes harm and deprescribing may be beneficial are unknown and unfeasible to study rigorously in tissue from geriatric patients. Therefore, in a randomized controlled trial, we administered therapeutic doses of commonly used chronic medications (oxycodone, oxybutynin, citalopram, simvastatin, or metoprolol) as monotherapy or concurrently (polypharmacy) from middle-age (12 months) to old-age (26 months) to male C57BL/6J (B6) mice and deprescribed (gradually withdrew) treatments in a subset from age 21 months. We compared drug-related hepatic effects by applying proteomics along with transcriptomics and histology. We found that monotherapy effects on hepatic proteomics were limited but significant changes were seen with polypharmacy (93% unique to polypharmacy). Polypharmacy altered the hepatic expression of proteins involved in immunity, and in drug, cholesterol, and amino acid metabolism, accompanied by higher serum drug levels than monotherapies. Deprescribing not only reversed some effects but also caused irreversible and novel changes in the hepatic proteome. Furthermore, our study identified several hepatic protein co-expressed modules that are associated with clinically relevant adverse geriatric outcomes, such as mobility, frailty, and activities of daily living. This study highlights the complex molecular changes following aging, chronic polypharmacy, and deprescribing. Further exploration of these mechanistic pathways may inform management of polypharmacy and deprescribing in older adults.
PXD046258	39462997	Malformin C preferentially kills glioblastoma stem-like cells via concerted induction of proteotoxic stress and autophagic flux blockade. 	Fungal extract screening reveals malformin C to preferentially kill glioblastoma cells via concerted induction of proteotoxic stress and autophagic flux blockade	Glioblastoma, stem cells, target deconvolution	Glioblastoma is a highly aggressive brain tumor for which there is no cure. The dire prognosis of this disease is largely attributable to a high level of heterogeneity, including the presence of a subpopulation of tumor-initiating glioblastoma stem-like cells (GSCs), which are refractory to chemo- and radiotherapy. Here, in an unbiased marine-derived fungal extract screen, together with bioguided dereplication based on high-resolution mass spectrometry, we identified malformin C to preferentially induce cell death in patient-derived GSCs and explore the potential of this cyclic peptide as a therapeutic agent for glioblastoma. Malformin C significantly reduced tumor growth in an in vivo xenograft model of glioblastoma. Using transcriptomics and chemoproteomics, we found that malformin C binds to many proteins, leading to their aggregation, and rapidly induces the unfolded protein response, including autophagy, in GSCs. Crucially, chemical inhibition of translation using cycloheximide rescued malformin C-induced cell death in GSCs, demonstrating that the proteotoxic effect of the compound is necessary for its cytotoxicity. At the same time, malformin C appears to accumulate in lysosomes, disrupting autophagic flux, and driving cells to death. Supporting this, malformin C synergizes with chloroquine, an inhibitor of autophagy. Strikingly, we observed that autophagic flux is differentially regulated in GSCs compared with normal astrocytes. The sensitivity of GSCs to malformin C highlights the relevance of proteostasis and autophagy as a therapeutic vulnerability in glioblastoma.
PXD051718	39463834	Loss of Diphthamide Increases DNA Replication Stress in Mammalian Cells by Modulating the Translation of RRM1. 	SILAC quantification for proteome of human HEK293 cells	HEK293 cells, SILAC	Diphthamide (DPH) is a highly conserved post-translational modification exclusively present in eukaryotic translation elongation factor 2 (eEF2), with its loss leading to embryonic lethality in mice and developmental disorders in humans. In this study, we unveil the role of diphthamide in mammalian cell DNA damage stress, with a particular emphasis on DNA replication stress. We developed a systematic strategy to identify human proteins affected by diphthamide with a combination of computational profiling and quantitative proteomics. Through this approach, we determine that the translation of RRM1 is modulated by diphthamide via -1 frameshifting. Importantly, our results reveal that the dysregulation of RRM1 translation in DPH-deficient cells is causally linked to elevated DNA replication stress. These findings provide a potential explanation for how diphthamide deficiency leads to cancer and developmental defects in humans.
PXD041137	39466775	Nanoparticle-based itaconate treatment recapitulates low-cholesterol/low-fat diet-induced atherosclerotic plaque resolution. 	Immunometabolism in resolving atherosclerosis guides the development of nanometabolite therapy	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, aorta, organoids, stable isotope metabolomics	Current pharmacologic treatments for atherosclerosis do not completely protect patients; additional protection can be achieved by dietary modifications, such as a low-cholesterol/low-fat diet (LCLFD), that mediate plaque stabilization and inflammation reduction. However, this lifestyle modification can be challenging for patients. Unfortunately, incomplete understanding of the underlying mechanisms has thwarted efforts to mimic the protective effects of a LCLFD. Here, we report that the tricarboxylic acid cycle intermediate itaconate (ITA), produced by plaque macrophages, is key to diet-induced plaque resolution. ITA is produced by immunoresponsive gene 1 (IRG1), which we observe is highly elevated in myeloid cells of vulnerable plaques and absent from early or stable plaques in mice and humans. We additionally report development of an ITA-conjugated lipid nanoparticle that accumulates in plaque and bone marrow myeloid cells, epigenetically reduces inflammation via H3K27ac deacetylation, and reproduces the therapeutic effects of LCLFD-induced plaque resolution in multiple atherosclerosis models.
PXD045898	39467626	Comparative Proteomics of ccRCC Cell Lines to Identify Kidney Cancer Progression Factors. 	LC-MS/MS proteomic profiling study of ccRCC cell-lines	SILAC, ccRCC, proteomic profiling	BACKGROUND/AIM: Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is the most common type of kidney cancer, accounting for approximately 75% of kidney cancers. The objective of this study was to identify novel progression markers for ccRCC based on proteomics, with the goal of stage determination and early diagnosis of kidney cancer patients. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We performed quantitative global proteomics coupled with Stable Isotope Labeling by Amino Acids in Cell Culture (SILAC) and high-resolution tandem mass spectrometry on kidney-derived cells, including HEK-293, 786-O (primary ccRCC), and Caki-1 (metastatic ccRCC) cells, to investigate the novel progression factors of ccRCC. RESULTS: In this study, a total of 1,106 proteins were quantified. The Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analyses were conducted for differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) that were increased in ccRCC cells compared to HEK-293 cells. Ultimately, 99 DEPs including 75 up-regulated and 24 down-regulated proteins, that were significantly altered in both ccRCC cells, were identified. Among DEPs, vimentin was identified as the most significantly changed protein. Its increased expression in ccRCC was verified through immunoblotting in ccRCC cell lines and immunohistochemistry in kidney tumors. CONCLUSION: From the global proteomics data detected in ccRCC, we propose 99 DEPs including vimentin as progression factors.
PXD047941	39468028	The link between amyloid beta and ferroptosis pathway in Alzheimer's disease progression. 	The link between Amyloid beta and ferroptosis pathway in Alzheimer's disease	Neurodegeneration, amyloid beta, brain organoid, iron dysregulation, lipid peroxidation	Alzheimer's disease (AD) affects millions of people worldwide and represents the most prevalent form of dementia. Treatment strategies aiming to interfere with the formation of amyloid beta (Abeta) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), the two major AD hallmarks, have shown modest or no effect. Recent evidence suggests that ferroptosis, a type of programmed cell death caused by iron accumulation and lipid peroxidation, contributes to AD pathogenesis. The existing link between ferroptosis and AD has been largely based on cell culture and animal studies, while evidence from human brain tissue is limited. Here we evaluate if Abeta is associated with ferroptosis pathways in post-mortem human brain tissue and whether ferroptosis inhibition could attenuate Abeta-related effects in human brain organoids. Performing positive pixel density scoring on immunohistochemically stained post-mortem Brodmann Area 17 sections revealed that the progression of AD pathology was accompanied by decreased expression of nuclear receptor co-activator 4 and glutathione peroxidase 4 in the grey matter. Differentiating between white and grey matter, allowed for a more precise understanding of the disease's impact on different brain regions. In addition, ferroptosis inhibition prevented Abeta pathology, decreased lipid peroxidation and restored iron storage in human AD iPSCs-derived brain cortical organoids at day 50 of differentiation. Differential gene expression analysis of RNAseq of AD organoids compared to isogenic controls indicated activation of the ferroptotic pathway. This was also supported by results from untargeted proteomic analysis revealing significant changes between AD and isogenic brain organoids. Determining the causality between the development of Abeta plaques and the deregulation of molecular pathways involved in ferroptosis is crucial for developing potential therapeutic interventions.
PXD055823	39468053	Proteomic approach to identify host cell attachment proteins provides protective Pseudomonas aeruginosa vaccine antigen FtsZ. 	A proteomic approach to identify vaccine candidates based on host cell attachment provides a novel protective Pseudomonas aeruginosa vaccine antigen: cell division protein, FtsZ	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, antigens, vaccine	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic Gram-negative pathogen that causes severe nosocomial infections in susceptible individuals due to the emergence of multidrug-resistant strains. There are no approved vaccines against P. aeruginosa infections nor candidates in active clinical development, highlighting the need for novel candidates and strategies. Using a cell-blot proteomic approach, we reproducibly identified 49 proteins involved in interactions with human lung epithelial cells across four P. aeruginosa strains. Among these were cell division protein FtsZ and outer membrane protein OpmH. Escherichia coli BL21 cells overexpressing recombinant FtsZ or rOpmH showed a 66- and 15-fold increased ability to attach to 16HBE14o(-) cells, further supporting their involvement in host cell attachment. Both antigens led to proliferation of NK and CD8(+) cytotoxic T cells, significant increases in the production of IFN-gamma, IL-17A, TNF and IL-4 in immunised mice and elicited strong antigen-specific serological IgG1 and IgG2c responses. Immunisation with FtsZ significantly reduced bacterial burden in the lungs by 1.9-log CFU and dissemination to spleen by 1.8-log CFU. The protective antigen candidate, FtsZ, would not have been identified by traditional approaches relying on either virulence mechanisms or sequence-based predictions, opening new avenues in the development of an anti-P. aeruginosa vaccine.
PXD042089	39468329	Deep quantification of substrate turnover defines protease subsite cooperativity. 	Deep quantification of substrate turnover defines protease subsite cooperativity. Working title: Massively parallel mapping of dipeptidyl peptidase cleavage sites reveals substrate motifs	DPF-3, DPP4, HeLa digest, TMT, dipeptidyl peptidase, einprot, hiMAPS, multiplexing, proteome discoverer, sequence motif	Substrate specificity determines protease functions in physiology and in clinical and biotechnological applications, yet quantitative cleavage information is often unavailable, biased, or limited to a small number of events. Here, we develop qPISA (quantitative Protease specificity Inference from Substrate Analysis) to study Dipeptidyl Peptidase Four (DPP4), a key regulator of blood glucose levels. We use mass spectrometry to quantify >40,000 peptides from a complex, commercially available peptide mixture. By analyzing changes in substrate levels quantitatively instead of focusing on qualitative product identification through a binary classifier, we can reveal cooperative interactions within DPP4's active pocket and derive a sequence motif that predicts activity quantitatively. qPISA distinguishes DPP4 from the related C. elegans DPF-3 (a DPP8/9-orthologue), and we relate the differences to the structural features of the two enzymes. We demonstrate that qPISA can direct protein engineering efforts like the stabilization of GLP-1, a key DPP4 substrate used in the treatment of diabetes and obesity. Thus, qPISA offers a versatile approach for profiling protease and especially exopeptidase specificity, facilitating insight into enzyme mechanisms and biotechnological and clinical applications.
PXD055478	39470273	Phages ZC01 and ZC03 require type-IV pilus for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection and have a potential for therapeutic applications. 	Phages ZC01 and ZC03 require Type-IV Pilus for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection and have a potential for therapeutic applications	PA14, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Type-4 pilus, phage receptor, phage therapy	There has been a growing interest in bacteriophages as therapeutic agents to treat multidrug-resistant bacterial infections. The present work aimed at expanding the microbiological and molecular characterization of lytic phages ZC01 and ZC03 and investigating their efficacy in the control of Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection in an invertebrate animal model. These two phages were previously isolated from composting using P. aeruginosa strain PA14 as the enrichment host and had their genomes sequenced. ZC01 and ZC03 present, respectively, siphovirus and podovirus morphotypes. ZC01 was recently classified into the genus Abidjanvirus, while ZC03 belongs to Zicotriavirus genus of the Schitoviridae N4-like viruses. Through proteomics analysis, we identified virion structural proteins of ZC01 and ZC03, including a large virion-associated RNA polymerase that is characteristic of N4-like viruses, some hypothetical proteins whose annotation should be changed to virion structural proteins and a putative peptidoglycan hydrolase. Phages ZC01 and ZC03 exhibit a limited yet distinct host range, with moderate to high efficiency of plating (EOP) values observed for a few P. aeruginosa clinical isolates. Phage susceptibility assays in PA14 mutant strains point to the type-IV pilus (T4P) as the primary receptor for phages ZC01 and ZC03, and the major pilin (PilAPA14) is the T4P component recognized by these phages. Moreover, both phages significantly increase survival of Galleria mellonella larvae infected with PA14 strain. Taken together, these results underpin the therapeutic potential of these phages to treat infections by P. aeruginosa and lay the groundwork for a more detailed investigation of phage-bacteria-specific recognition mechanisms.IMPORTANCEPhage therapy is gaining increasing interest in cases of difficult-to-treat bacterial human infections, such as carbapenem-resistant Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In this work, we investigated the molecular mechanism underlying the interaction of the lytic phages ZC01 and ZC03 with the highly virulent P. aeruginosa PA14 strain and their efficacy to treat PA14 infection in Galleria mellonella larvae, a commonly used invertebrate model for phage therapy. We depicted the protein composition of ZC01 and ZC03 viral particles and identified pilin A, the major component of type-4 pilus, as the receptor recognized by these phages. Our findings indicate that phages ZC01 and ZC03 may be further used for developing therapies to treat multidrug-resistant P. aeruginosa infections.
PXD050420	39470734	EGFR-mediated HSP70 phosphorylation facilitates PCNA association with chromatin and DNA replication. 	EGFR-TKI-down-regulated proteins in HCC827 cells	Human EGFR mutated lung cancer cells	Efficient DNA replication requires highly coordinated programs for the timely recruitment of protein complexes to DNA replication forks. Defects in this process result in replication stress, which in turn activates cell cycle checkpoints, suppresses cell proliferation and induces apoptosis. In response to persistent cell growth signals that speed up DNA replication processes, cells accelerate the recruitment of DNA replication proteins to avoid DNA replication stress. The mechanisms by which cell growth signals induce processes to facilitate the recruitment of DNA replication proteins onto the replication sites remain unclear. Here, we report that the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) phosphorylates heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) for DNA replication. Such a modification promotes nuclear localization and chromatin association of HSP70, which interacts with the DNA replication coordinator, proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA). HSP70 subsequently facilitates the loading of PCNA onto chromatin. Knockdown or chemical inhibition of HSP70 suppresses PCNA association with chromatin and impairs DNA synthesis and Okazaki fragment maturation, leading to replicative DNA double-strand breaks and apoptosis. Furthermore, chemical inhibition of HSP70 potentiates EGFR-tyrosine kinase inhibitor-induced tumor reduction in vivo. This work expands our understanding of oncogenesis-induced DNA replication processes and provides a foundation for improved treatments for EGFR-mutated lung cancer by simultaneously targeting HSP70.
PXD055933	39472429	Regulation of minimal spindle midzone organization by mitotic kinases. 	PRC1 phosphorylation by CDK1 and PLK1	CDK1, PLK1, PRC1	During cell division, the microtubule cytoskeleton undergoes dramatic cell cycle-driven reorganizations of its architecture. Coordinated by changes in the phosphorylation patterns of a multitude of microtubule associated proteins, the mitotic spindle first self-assembles to capture the chromosomes and then reorganizes in anaphase as the chromosomes are segregated. A key protein for this reorganization is PRC1 which is differentially phosphorylated by the mitotic kinases CDK1 and PLK1. How the phosphorylation state of PRC1 orchestrates spindle reorganization is not understood mechanistically. Here, we reconstitute in vitro the transition between metaphase and anaphase-like microtubule architectures triggered by the changes in PRC1 phosphorylation. We find that whereas PLK1 regulates its own recruitment by PRC1, CDK1 controls the affinity of PRC1 for antiparallel microtubule binding. Dephosphorylation of CDK1-phosphorylated PRC1 is required and sufficient to trigger the reorganization of a minimal anaphase midzone in the presence of the midzone length controlling kinesin KIF4A. These results demonstrate how phosphorylation-controlled affinity changes regulate the architecture of active microtubule networks, providing new insight into the mechanistic underpinnings of the cell cycle-driven reorganization of the central spindle during mitosis.
PXD040772	39472547	Comparative small molecule screening of primary human acute leukemias, engineered human leukemia and leukemia cell lines. 	Large scale screens of small molecules using multiple sources of human acute leukemia cells reveal novel targeting strategies	acute leukemia	Targeted therapeutics for high-risk cancers remain an unmet medical need. Here we report the results of a large-scale screen of over 11,000 molecules for their ability to inhibit the survival and growth in vitro of human leukemic cells from multiple sources including patient samples, de novo generated human leukemia models, and established human leukemic cell lines. The responses of cells from de novo models were most similar to those of patient samples, both of which showed striking differences from the cell-line responses. Analysis of differences in subtype-specific therapeutic vulnerabilities made possible by the scale of this screen enabled the identification of new specific modulators of apoptosis, while also highlighting the complex polypharmacology of anti-leukemic small molecules such as shikonin. These findings introduce a new platform for uncovering new therapeutic options for high-risk human leukemia, in addition to reinforcing the importance of the test sample choice for effective drug discovery.
PXD051941	39472556	Quantitative chemical proteomics reveals that phenethyl isothiocyanate covalently targets BID to promote apoptosis. 	Quantitative chemical proteomics profile target proteins of ITCs	Chemical proteomics, HF-X, Isothiocyanates, SILAC	Naturally occurring isothiocyanates (ITCs) found in cruciferous vegetables, such as benzyl isothiocyanate (BITC), phenethyl isothiocyanate (PEITC), and sulforaphane (SFN), have attracted significant research interest for their promising anti-cancer activity in vitro and in vivo. While the induction of apoptosis is recognized to play a key role in the anti-cancer effects of ITCs, the specific protein targets and associated upstream events underlying ITC-induced apoptosis remain unknown. In this study, we present a set of chemical probes that are derived from BITC, PEITC, and SFN and equipped with bioorthogonal alkynyl handles to systematically profile the target proteins of ITCs in live cancer cells. Using a competition-based quantitative chemical proteomics approach, we identify a range of candidate target proteins of ITCs enriched in biological processes such as apoptosis. We show that BID, an apoptosis regulator of the Bcl-2 family, is covalently modified by ITCs on its N-terminal cysteines. Functional characterization demonstrates that covalent binding to N-terminal cysteines of BID by PEITC results in conformational changes of the protein and disruption of the self-inhibitory interaction between N- and C-terminal regions of BID, thus unleashing the highly active C-terminal segment to exert downstream pro-apoptotic effects. Consistently, PEITC promotes the cleavage and mitochondrial translocation of BID, leading to a strong induction of apoptosis. We further show that mutation of N-terminal cysteines impairs the N- and C-terminal interaction of BID, relieving the self-inhibition and enhancing its apoptotic activity. Overall, our chemical proteomics profiling and functional studies not only reveal BID as the principal target of PEITC in mediating upstream events for the induction of apoptosis, but also uncover a novel molecular mechanism involving N-terminal cysteines within the first helix of BID in regulating its pro-apoptotic potential.
PXD056371	39472581	Human adipose and umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles mitigate photoaging via TIMP1/Notch1. 	Proteomics of human adipose and umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles	extracellular vesicles, mesenchymal stem cell	UVB radiation induces oxidative stress, DNA damage, and inflammation, leading to skin wrinkling, compromised barrier function, and an increased risk of carcinogenesis. Addressing or preventing photoaging may offer a promising therapeutic avenue for these conditions. Recent research indicated that mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) exhibit significant therapeutic potential for various skin diseases. Given that extracellular vesicles (EV) can deliver diverse cargo to recipient cells and elicit similar therapeutic effects, we investigated the roles and underlying mechanisms of both adipose-derived MSC-derived EV (AMSC-EV) and umbilical cord-derived MSC-derived EV (HUMSC-EV) in photoaging. Our findings indicated that in vivo, treatment with AMSC-EV and HUMSC-EV resulted in improvements in wrinkles and skin hydration while also mitigating skin inflammation and thickness alterations in both the epidermis and dermis. Additionally, in vitro studies using human keratinocytes (HaCaTs), human dermal fibroblast cells (HDFs), and T-Skin models revealed that AMSC-EV and HUMSC-EV attenuated senescence, reduced levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and DNA damage, and alleviated inflammation induced by UVB. Furthermore, EV treatment enhanced cell viability and migration capacity in the epidermis and promoted extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling in the dermis in photoaged cell models. Mechanistically, proteomics results showed that TIMP1 was highly expressed in both AMSC-EV and HUMSC-EV and could exert similar effects as MSC-EV. In addition, we found that EV and TIMP1 could inhibit Notch1 and downstream targets Hes1, P16, P21, and P53. Collectively, our data suggests that both AMSC-EV and HUMSC-EV attenuate skin photoaging through TIMP1/Notch1.
PXD044817	39472692	METTL3 confers oxaliplatin resistance through the activation of G6PD-enhanced pentose phosphate pathway in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	The interactive proteins of G6PD immunoprecipitated via anti-flag beads in Huh7 cells	Hepatocellular carcinoma, cell line	Oxaliplatin-based therapeutics is a widely used treatment approach for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients; however, drug resistance poses a significant clinical challenge. Epigenetic modifications have been implicated in the development of drug resistance. In our study, employing siRNA library screening, we identified that silencing the m(6)A writer METTL3 significantly enhanced the sensitivity to oxaliplatin in both in vivo and in vitro HCC models. Further investigations through combined RNA-seq and non-targeted metabolomics analysis revealed that silencing METTL3 impeded the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP), leading to a reduction in NADPH and nucleotide precursors. This disruption induced DNA damage, decreased DNA synthesis, and ultimately resulted in cell cycle arrest. Mechanistically, METTL3 was found to modify E3 ligase TRIM21 near the 3'UTR with N(6)-methyladenosine, leading to reduced RNA stability upon recognition by YTHDF2. TRIM21, in turn, facilitated the degradation of the rate-limiting enzyme of PPP, G6PD, through the ubiquitination-proteasome pathway. Importantly, high expression of METTL3 was significantly associated with adverse prognosis and oxaliplatin resistance in HCC patients. Notably, treatment with the specific METTL3 inhibitor, STM2457, significantly improved the efficacy of oxaliplatin. These findings underscore the critical role of the METTL3/TRIM21/G6PD axis in driving oxaliplatin resistance and present a promising strategy to overcome chemoresistance in HCC.
PXD041693	39475232	Metabolic interplay between Proteus mirabilis and Enterococcus faecalis facilitates polymicrobial biofilm formation and invasive disease. 	Metabolic interplay between Proteus mirabilis and Enterococcus faecalis facilitates polymicrobial biofilm formation and invasive disease	Enterococcus faecalis, IonStar, Proteus mirabilis, biofilm, quantitative proteomics	Biofilms play an important role in the development and pathogenesis of catheter-associated urinary tract infection (CAUTI). Proteus mirabilis and Enterococcus faecalis are common CAUTI pathogens that persistently co-colonize the catheterized urinary tract and form biofilms with increased biomass and antibiotic resistance. In this study, we uncover the metabolic interplay that drives biofilm enhancement and examine the contribution to CAUTI severity. Through compositional and proteomic biofilm analyses, we determined that the increase in biofilm biomass stems from an increase in the protein fraction of the polymicrobial biofilm. We further observed an enrichment in proteins associated with ornithine and arginine metabolism in polymicrobial biofilms compared with single-species biofilms. We show that arginine/ornithine antiport by E. faecalis promotes arginine biosynthesis and metabolism in P. mirabilis, ultimately driving the increase in polymicrobial biofilm protein content without affecting viability of either species. We further show that disrupting E. faecalis ornithine antiport alters the metabolic profile of polymicrobial biofilms and prevents enhancement, and this defect was complemented by supplementation with exogenous ornithine. In a murine model of CAUTI, ornithine antiport did not contribute to E. faecalis colonization but was required for the increased incidence of urinary stone formation and bacteremia that occurs during polymicrobial CAUTI with P. mirabilis. Thus, disrupting metabolic interplay between common co-colonizing species may represent a viable strategy for reducing risk of bacteremia.IMPORTANCEChronic infections often involve the formation of antibiotic-resistant biofilm communities that include multiple different microbes, which pose a challenge for effective treatment. In the catheterized urinary tract, potential pathogens persistently co-colonize for long periods of time and the interactions between them can lead to more severe disease outcomes. In this study, we identified the metabolite L-ornithine as a key mediator of disease-enhancing interactions between two common and challenging pathogens, Enterococcus faecalis and Proteus mirabilis. Disrupting ornithine-mediated interactions may therefore represent a strategy to prevent polymicrobial biofilm formation and decrease risk of severe disease.
PXD054277	39476757	Characterization of Ksg1 protein kinase-dependent phosphoproteome in the fission yeast S. pombe. 	Characterization of Ksg1 protein kinase-dependent phosphoproteome in the fission yeast S. pombe	Ksg1, S.pombe, kinase, phosphoproteome	Ksg1 is an essential protein kinase of the fission yeast S. pombe that belongs to the AGC kinase family and is homologous to the mammalian PDPK1 kinase. Previous studies have shown that Ksg1 functions in the nutrient-sensing TOR signaling pathway and is involved in the phosphorylation and activation of other AGC kinases, thereby affecting various downstream targets related to metabolism, cell division, stress response, and gene expression. To date, the molecular function of Ksg1 has been analyzed using its temperature sensitive mutants or mutants expressing its truncated isoforms, which are not always suitable for functional studies of Ksg1 and the identification of its targets. To overcome these limitations, we employed a chemical genetic strategy and used a conditional ksg1(as) mutant sensitive to an ATP analog. Combining this mutant with quantitative phosphoproteomics analysis, we identified 1986 phosphosites that were differentially phosphorylated when Ksg1(as) kinase was inhibited by an ATP analog. We found that proteins whose phosphorylation was dysregulated after inhibition of Ksg1(as) kinase were mainly represented by those involved in the regulation of cytokinesis, contractile ring contraction, cell division, septation initiation signaling cascade, intracellular protein kinase cascade, barrier septum formation, protein phosphorylation, intracellular signal transduction, cytoskeleton organization, cellular response to stimulus, or in RNA, ncRNA and rRNA processing. Importantly, proteins with significantly down-regulated phosphorylation were specifically enriched for R-X-X-S and R-X-R-X-X-S motifs, which are typical consensus substrate sequences for phosphorylation by the AGC family of kinases. The results of this study provide a basis for further analysis of the role of the Ksg1 kinase and its targets in S. pombe and may also be useful for studying Ksg1 orthologs in other organisms.
PXD040101	39478468	Quantitative proteomics and multi-omics analysis identifies potential biomarkers and the underlying pathological molecular networks in Chinese patients with multiple sclerosis. 	LC-MSMS analysis of plasma from multiple sclerosis-affected patients	Differentially expressed protein, Multiple sclerosis, Plasma, Potential biomarker, Proteomic profile	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disorder caused by chronic inflammatory reactions in the central nervous system. Currently, little is known about the changes of plasma proteomic profiles in Chinese patients with MS (CpwMS) and its relationship with the altered profiles of multi-omics such as metabolomics and gut microbiome, as well as potential molecular networks that underlie the etiology of MS. To uncover the characteristics of proteomics landscape and potential multi-omics interaction networks in CpwMS, Plasma samples were collected from 22 CpwMS and 22 healthy controls (HCs) and analyzed using a Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics approach. Our results showed that the plasma proteomics pattern was significantly different in CpwMS compared to HCs. A total of 90 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), such as LAMP1 and FCG2A, were identified in CpwMS plasma comparing to HCs. Furthermore, we also observed extensive and significant correlations between the altered proteomic profiles and the changes of metabolome, gut microbiome, as well as altered immunoinflammatory responses in MS-affected patients. For instance, the level of LAMP1 and ERN1 were significantly and positively correlated with the concentrations of metabolite L-glutamic acid and pro-inflammatory factor IL-17 (Padj < 0.05). However, they were negatively correlated with the amounts of other metabolites such as L-tyrosine and sphingosine 1-phosphate, as well as the concentrations of IL-8 and MIP-1alpha. This study outlined the underlying multi-omics integrated mechanisms that might regulate peripheral immunoinflammatory responses and MS progression. These findings are potentially helpful for developing new assisting diagnostic biomarker and therapeutic strategies for MS.
PXD050693	39479752	The Lipid Droplet Protein DHRS3 Is a Regulator of Melanoma Cell State. 	The lipid droplet protein DHRS3 is a regulator of melanoma cell state	DHRS3, lipid droplet, melanoma	Lipid droplets are fat storage organelles composed of a protein envelope and lipid-rich core. Regulation of this protein envelope underlies differential lipid droplet formation and function. In melanoma, lipid droplet formation has been linked to tumor progression and metastasis, but it is unknown whether lipid droplet proteins play a role. To address this, we performed proteomic analysis of the lipid droplet envelope in melanoma. We found that lipid droplet proteins were differentially enriched in distinct melanoma states; from melanocytic to undifferentiated. DHRS3, which converts all-trans-retinal to all-trans-retinol, is upregulated in the MITF(LO)/undifferentiated/neural crest-like melanoma cell state and reduced in the MITF(HI)/melanocytic state. Increased DHRS3 expression is sufficient to drive MITF(HI)/melanocytic cells to a more undifferentiated/invasive state. These changes are due to retinoic acid-mediated regulation of melanocytic genes. Our data demonstrate that melanoma cell state can be regulated by expression of lipid droplet proteins which affect downstream retinoid signaling.
PXD045259	39481378	IRGQ-mediated autophagy in MHC class I quality control promotes tumor immune evasion. 	Tumor immune evasion mediated through IRGQ-directed autophagy		The autophagy-lysosome system directs the degradation of a wide variety of cargo and is also involved in tumor progression. Here, we show that the immunity-related GTPase family Q protein (IRGQ), an uncharacterized protein to date, acts in the quality control of major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC class I) molecules. IRGQ directs misfolded MHC class I toward lysosomal degradation through its binding mode to GABARAPL2 and LC3B. In the absence of IRGQ, free MHC class I heavy chains do not only accumulate in the cell but are also transported to the cell surface, thereby promoting an immune response. Mice and human patients suffering from hepatocellular carcinoma show improved survival rates with reduced IRGQ levels due to increased reactivity of CD8+ T cells toward IRGQ knockout tumor cells. Thus, we reveal IRGQ as a regulator of MHC class I quality control, mediating tumor immune evasion.
PXD049115	39481382	COLD6-OSM1 module senses chilling for cold tolerance via 2',3'-cAMP signaling in rice. 	COLD6-OSM1 module senses chilling for the tolerance via 2',3'-cAMP signal in rice	COLD6, OSM1, chilling resilience, cold perception, rice, temperature adaption	While it is known that temperature sensors trigger calcium (Ca(2+)) signaling to confer cold tolerance in cells, less is known about sensors that couple with other secondary messengers. Here, we identify a cold sensor complex of CHILLING-TOLERANCE DIVERGENCE 6 (COLD6) and osmotin-like 1 (OSM1), which triggers 2',3'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (2',3'-cAMP) production to enhance cold tolerance in rice. COLD6, which is encoded by a major quantitative trait locus (QTL) gene, interacts with the rice G protein alpha subunit (RGA1) at the plasma membrane under normal conditions. Upon exposure to chilling, cold-induced OSM1 binds to COLD6, kicking out RGA1 from interaction. This triggers an elevation of 2',3'-cAMP levels for enhancing chilling tolerance. Genetic data show that COLD6 negatively regulates cold tolerance and functionally depends on OSM1 in chilling stress. COLD6 alleles were selected during rice domestication. Knockout and natural variation of COLD6 in hybrid rice enhanced chilling tolerance, hinting design potential for breeding. This highlighted a module triggering 2',3'-cAMP to improve chilling tolerance in crops.
PXD041964	39482354	Caspase-2 is a condensate-mediated deubiquitinase in protein quality control. 	Caspase-2 is a condensate-mediated deubiquitinase in protein quality control	caspase-2, deubiquitinase, protein quality control	Protein ubiquitination plays a critical role in protein quality control in response to cellular stress. The excessive accumulation of ubiquitinated conjugates can be detrimental to cells and is recognized as a hallmark of multiple neurodegenerative diseases. However, an in-depth understanding of how the excessive ubiquitin chains are removed to maintain ubiquitin homeostasis post stress remains largely unclear. Here we found that caspase-2 (CASP2) accumulates in a ubiquitin and proteasome-positive biomolecular condensate, which we named ubstressome, following stress and functions as a deubiquitinase to remove overloaded ubiquitin chains on proteins prone to misfolding. Mechanistically, CASP2 binds to the poly-ubiquitinated conjugates through its allosteric ubiquitin-interacting motif-like region and decreases overloaded ubiquitin chains in a protease-dependent manner to promote substrate degradation. CASP2 deficiency in mice results in excessive accumulation of poly-ubiquitinated TAR DNA-binding protein 43, leading to motor defects. Our findings uncover a stress-evoked deubiquitinating activity of CASP2 in the maintenance of cellular ubiquitin homeostasis, which differs from the well-known roles of caspase in apoptosis and inflammation. These data also reveal unrecognized protein quality control functions of condensates in the removal of stress-induced ubiquitin chains.
PXD055011	39482453	Temporal dynamics of immune cell patterns in bladder cancer patients receiving Bacillus Calmette-Guerin therapy. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of tumor tissues before and during Bacillus Calmette-Gurin instillation in bladder cancer	Bacillus Calmette-Gurin, bladder cancer	BACKGROUND: Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) is capable of enhancing the infiltration of immune cells into the tumour. However the temporal dynamics of immune cell patterns in patients receiving BCG instillation remains unclear. METHODS: Ninety-six patients who underwent intravesical BCG therapy, comprising 46 responders and 50 non-responders, were retrospectively enroled to explore the evolving immune landscape. This study involved a detailed examination of sequential samples collected before, during, and after BCG treatment to assess BCG's influence on the immune microenvironment, employing techniques such as immunohistochemistry, fluorescent multiplex immunohistochemistry, and mass spectrometry techniques. RESULTS: Our study found that initial BCG instillation leads to enhanced immune cell infiltration, correlating with treatment efficacy, with responders exhibiting more pronounced increases. Non-responders experience a rise in immune cell infiltration and PD-L1 expression during the first instillation, which returns to baseline after treatment. In non-responders, BCG re-challenge fail to further increase immune cell infiltration into the tumour or improve patient outcomes. Strikingly, proteomics data revealed that GBP1 expression was induced by BCG treatment in non-responders. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings demonstrated the induction of tumour PD-L1 expression by BCG in non-responders, and therefore provide insights for the combination of BCG and anti-PD1/anti-PD-L1 therapy.
PXD052022	39482464	Proteome-scale recombinant standards and a robust high-speed search engine to advance cross-linking MS-based interactomics. 	Dataset used to guide the development of Scout and bechmark XL-MS search engines	FDR, PPI, XL-MS, benchmarking, cross-linking, search engine	Advancing data analysis tools for proteome-wide cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS) requires ground-truth standards that mimic biological complexity. Here we develop well-controlled XL-MS standards comprising hundreds of recombinant proteins that are systematically mixed for cross-linking. We use one standard dataset to guide the development of Scout, a search engine for XL-MS with MS-cleavable cross-linkers. Using other, independent standard datasets and published datasets, we benchmark the performance of Scout and existing XL-MS software. We find that Scout offers an excellent combination of speed, sensitivity and false discovery rate control. The results illustrate how our large recombinant standard can support the development of XL-MS analysis tools and evaluation of XL-MS results.
PXD053674	39482856	Proximity-dependent biotinylation reveals an interaction between ubiquitin-specific peptidase 46 and centrosome-related proteins. 	Proximity-dependent biotinylation reveals an interaction between ubiquitin-specific peptidase 46 and centrosome-related proteins	BioID	Protein ubiquitination extensively modulates protein functions and controls various biological processes, such as protein degradation, signal transduction, transcription, and DNA repair. Ubiquitination is a reversible post-translational modification, and deubiquitinating enzymes cleave ubiquitin from proteins. Ubiquitin-specific peptidase 46 (USP46), a deubiquitinase, is highly expressed in the brain and regulates neural functions. Deleting lysine 92 (DeltaK92) in USP46 reduces murine depression-like behavior in the tail suspension test. However, the molecular basis for USP46's role in regulating neural function has not yet been fully understood. Here we employed a proximity-dependent biotinylation approach to characterize the USP46 protein interaction partners. Using homology-independent targeted integration (HITI), a genome editing technique, we established knockin cell lines that stably express USP46 wildtype- or DeltaK92-biotin ligase fusion protein. We identified 286 candidate interaction partners, including well-known binding partners of USP46. Although there were no obvious differences in the interactome of USP46 between wildtype and DeltaK92, a gene ontology analysis revealed that centrosome-related proteins were significantly enriched in the proximal proteins of USP46. Several centrosome-related proteins were bound to USP46 in Neuro2a cells, but their protein expression levels were not affected in the brains of USP46-deficient mice. These results uncover a potential relationship between USP46 and centrosome regulation independently of protein stabilization.
PXD054190	39483176	Label-based comparative proteomics of oral mucosal tissue to understand progression of precancerous lesions to oral squamous cell carcinoma. 	Label-based comparative proteomics to understand progression of precancerous lesions to oral squamous cell carcinoma	erythroplakia, label-based proteomics, leukoplakia, oral squamous cell carcinoma	Introduction: Oral squamous cell carcinomas typically arise from precancerous lesions such as leukoplakia and erythroplakia. These lesions exhibit a range of histological changes from hyperplasia to dysplasia and carcinoma in situ, during their transformation to malignancy. The molecular mechanisms driving this multistage transition remain incompletely understood. To bridge this knowledge gap, our current study utilizes label based comparative proteomics to compare protein expression profiles across different histopathological grades of leukoplakia, erythroplakia, and oral squamous cell carcinoma samples, aiming to elucidate the molecular changes underlying lesion evolution. Methodology: An 8-plex iTRAQ proteomics of 4 biological replicates from 8 clinical phenotypes of leukoplakia and erythroplakia, with hyperplasia, mild dysplasia, moderate dysplasia; along with phenotypes of well differentiated squamous cell carcinoma and moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma was carried out using the Orbitrap Fusion Lumos mass spectrometer. Raw files were processed with Maxquant, and statistical analysis across groups was conducted using MetaboAnalyst. Statistical tools such as ANOVA, PLS-DA VIP scoring, and correlation analysis were employed to identify differentially expressed proteins that had a linear expression variation across phenotypes of hyperplasia to cancer. Validation was done using Bioinformatic tools such as ClueGO + Cluepedia plugin in Cytoscape to extract functional annotations from gene ontology and pathway databases. Results and discussion: A total of 2685 protein groups and 12,397 unique peptides were identified, and 61 proteins consistently exhibited valid reporter ion corrected intensities across all samples. Of these, 6 proteins showed linear varying expression across the analysed sample phenotypes. Collagen type VI alpha 2 chain (COL6A2), Fibrinogen beta chain (FGB), and Vimentin (VIM) were found to have increased linear expression across pre-cancer phenotypes of leukoplakia to cancer, while Annexin A7 (ANXA7) was seen to be having a linear decreasing expression. Collagen type VI alpha 2 chain (COL6A2) and Annexin A2 (ANXA2) had increased linear expression across precancer phenotypes of erythroplakia to cancer. The mass spectrometry proteomics data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchanger Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the data set identifier PXD054190. These differentially expressed proteins mediate cancer progression mainly through extracellular exosome; collagen-containing extracellular matrix, hemostasis, platelet aggregation, and cell adhesion molecule binding. Conclusion: Label-based proteomics is an ideal platform to study oral cancer progression. The differentially expressed proteins provide insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the progression of oral premalignant lesions to malignant phenotypes. The study has translational value for early detection, risk stratification, and potential therapeutic targeting of oral premalignant lesions and in its prevention to malignant forms.
PXD056511	39486496	USP14 inhibition enhances Parkin-independent mitophagy in iNeurons. 	USP14 inhibition enhances Parkin-independent mitophagy in iNeurons	Autophagy, MARCH5/MITOL, Mitophagy, PINK1, Parkin, UPS, USP14	Loss of proteostasis is well documented during physiological aging and depends on the progressive decline in the activity of two major degradative mechanisms: the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and the autophagy-lysosomal pathway. This decline in proteostasis is exacerbated in age-associated neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's Disease (PD). In PD, patients develop an accumulation of aggregated proteins and dysfunctional mitochondria, which leads to ROS production, neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. We recently reported that inhibition of the deubiquitinating enzyme USP14, which is known to enhance both the UPS and autophagy, increases lifespan and rescues the pathological phenotype of two Drosophila models of PD. Studies on the effects of USP14 inhibition in mammalian neurons have not yet been conducted. To close this gap, we exploited iNeurons differentiated from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs), and investigated the effect of inhibiting USP14 in these cultured neurons. Quantitative global proteomics analysis performed following genetic ablation or pharmacological inhibition of USP14 demonstrated that USP14 loss of function specifically promotes mitochondrial autophagy in iNeurons. Biochemical and imaging data also showed that USP14 inhibition enhances mitophagy. The mitophagic effect of USP14 inhibition proved to be PINK1/Parkin- independent, instead relying on expression of the mitochondrial E3 Ubiquitin Ligase MITOL/MARCH5. Notably, USP14 inhibition normalized the mitochondrial defects of Parkin KO human neurons.
PXD056343	39486573	From LAL-D to MASLD: Insights into the role of LAL and Kupffer cells in liver inflammation and lipid metabolism. 	From LAL-D to MASLD: Insights into the role of LAL and Kupffer cells in liver inflammation and lipid metabolism	timsTOF Pro 2	Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD) is a prevalent liver pathology worldwide, closely associated with obesity and metabolic disorders. Increasing evidence suggests that macrophages play a crucial role in the development of MASLD. Several human studies have shown an inverse correlation between circulating lysosomal acid lipase (LAL) activity and MASLD. LAL is the sole enzyme known to degrade cholesteryl esters (CE) and triacylglycerols in lysosomes. Consequently, these substrates accumulate when their enzymatic degradation is impaired due to LAL deficiency (LALD). This study aimed to investigate the role of hepatic LAL activity and liver-resident macrophages (i.e., Kupffer cells (KC)) in MASLD. To this end, we analyzed lipid metabolism in hepatocyte-specific (hep)Lal-/- mice and depleted KC with clodronate treatment. When fed a high-fat/high-cholesterol diet (HF/HCD), hepLal-/- mice exhibited CE accumulation and an increased number of macrophages in the liver and significant hepatic inflammation. KC were depleted upon clodronate administration, whereas infiltrating/proliferating CD68-expressing macrophages were less affected. This led to exacerbated hepatic CE accumulation and dyslipidemia, as evidenced by increased LDL-cholesterol concentrations. Along with proteomic analysis of liver tissue, these findings indicate that hepatic LAL-D in HF/HCD-fed mice leads to macrophage infiltration into the liver and that KC depletion further exacerbates hepatic CE concentrations and dyslipidemia.
PXD047262	39487357	Combined transcriptome and proteome profiling reveal cell-type-specific functions of Drosophila garland and pericardial nephrocytes. 	Combined transcriptome and proteome profiling indicate cell-type-specific functions of Drosophila garland and pericardial nephrocytes	Ageing, Drosophila melanogaster, kidney model, labyrinth channels, nephrocytes, nephropathies, slit diaphragms, transcriptome	Drosophila nephrocytes are specialised cells that share critical functional, morphological, and molecular features with mammalian podocytes. Accordingly, nephrocytes represent a preferred invertebrate model for human glomerular disease. Here, we established a method for cell-specific isolation of the two types of Drosophila nephrocytes, garland and pericardial cells, from animals of different developmental stages and ages. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics and RNA-Seq-based transcriptomics were applied to characterise the proteome and transcriptome of the respective cells in an integrated and complementary manner. We observed characteristic changes in the proteome and transcriptome due to cellular ageing. Furthermore, functional enrichment analyses suggested that larval and adult nephrocytes, as well as garland and pericardial nephrocytes, fulfil distinct physiological functions. In addition, the pericardial nephrocytes were characterised by transcriptomic and proteomic profiles suggesting an atypical energy metabolism with very low oxidative phosphorylation rates. Moreover, the nephrocytes displayed typical signatures of extensive immune signalling and showed an active antimicrobial response to an infection. Factor-specific comparisons identified novel candidate proteins either expressed and secreted by the nephrocytes or sequestered by them. The data generated in this study represent a valuable basis for a more specific application of the Drosophila model in analysing renal cell function in health and disease.
PXD053440	39487396	Serum proteomics for the identification of biomarkers to flag predilection of COVID19 patients to various organ morbidities. 	Serum proteomics for the identification of biomarkers to flag predilection of COVID-19 patients to various organ morbidities	COVID19, biomarkers, clinical proteomics, coagulation factors, complement factors, differential protein expression, organ morbidity	BACKGROUND: COVID19 is a pandemic that has affected millions around the world since March 2020. While many patients recovered completely with mild illness, many patients succumbed to various organ morbidities. This heterogeneity in the clinical presentation of COVID19 infection has posed a challenge to clinicians around the world. It is therefore crucial to identify specific organ-related morbidity for effective treatment and better patient outcomes. We have carried out serum-based proteomic experiments to identify protein biomarkers that can flag organ dysfunctions in COVID19 patients. METHODS: COVID19 patients were screened and tested at various hospitals across New Delhi, India. 114 serum samples from these patients, with and without organ morbidities were collected and annotated based on clinical presentation and treatment history. Of these, 29 samples comprising of heart, lung, kidney, gastrointestinal, liver, and neurological morbidities were considered for the discovery phase of the experiment. Proteins were isolated, quantified, trypsin digested, and the peptides were subjected to liquid chromatography assisted tandem mass spectrometry analysis. Data analysis was carried out using Proteome Discoverer software. Fold change analysis was carried out on MetaboAnalyst. KEGG, Reactome, and Wiki Pathway analysis of differentially expressed proteins were carried out using the STRING database. Potential biomarker candidates for various organ morbidities were validated using ELISA. RESULTS: 254 unique proteins were identified from all the samples with a subset of 12-31 differentially expressed proteins in each of the clinical phenotypes. These proteins establish complement and coagulation cascade pathways in the pathogenesis of the organ morbidities. Validation experiments along with their diagnostic parameters confirm Secreted Protein Acidic and Rich in Cysteine, Cystatin C, and Catalase as potential biomarker candidates that can flag cardiovascular disease, renal disease, and respiratory disease, respectively. CONCLUSIONS: Label free serum proteomics shows differential protein expression in COVID19 patients with morbidity as compared to those without morbidity. Identified biomarker candidates hold promise to flag organ morbidities in COVID19 for efficient patient care.
PXD056030	39488736	Unique structural attributes of the PSI-NDH supercomplex in Physcomitrium patens. 	Analysis of photosynthetic protein supercomplexes from Physcomitrella patens	Exploris, PSI, PSII, Physcomitrium patens, supercomplexes, timsTOF Pro	Cyclic electron transport around photosystem I (PSI) is essential for the protection of the photosynthetic apparatus in plants under diverse light conditions. This process is primarily mediated by Proton Gradient Regulation 5 protein/Proton Gradient Regulation 5-like photosynthetic phenotype 1 protein (PGR5/PGRL1) and NADH dehydrogenase-like complex (NDH). In angiosperms, NDH interacts with two PSI complexes through distinct monomeric antennae, LHCA5 and LHCA6, which is crucial for its higher stability under variable light conditions. This interaction represents an advanced evolutionary stage and offers limited insight into the origin of the PSI-NDH supercomplex in evolutionarily older organisms. In contrast, the moss Physcomitrium patens (Pp), which retains the lhca5 gene but lacks the lhca6, offers a glimpse into an earlier evolutionary stage of the PSI-NDH supercomplex. Here we present structural evidence of the Pp PSI-NDH supercomplex formation by single particle electron microscopy, demonstrating the unique ability of Pp to bind a single PSI in two different configurations. One configuration closely resembles the angiosperm model, whereas the other exhibits a novel PSI orientation, rotated clockwise. This structural flexibility in Pp is presumably enabled by the variable incorporation of LHCA5 within PSI and is indicative of an early evolutionary adaptation that allowed for greater diversity at the PSI-NDH interface. Our findings suggest that this variability was reduced as the structural complexity of the NDH complex increased in vascular plants, primarily angiosperms. This study not only clarifies the evolutionary development of PSI-NDH supercomplexes but also highlights the dynamic nature of the adaptive mechanisms of plant photosynthesis.
PXD056388	39488828	Alternative splicing of VRF1 acts as a molecular switch to regulate stress-induced early flowering. 	Alternative Splicing of VRF1 Acts as a Molecular Switch to Regulate Stress-Induced Early Flowering	phosphorylation	Plants frequently evade extreme environmental stress by initiating early flowering, yet the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Here, through extensive mutant screening, we identify a vegetative growth to reproductive growth transition factor (vrf1) mutant, which exhibits a deficiency in drought escape. Alternative splicing of VRF1 generates four isoforms, of which two encode functional proteins, VRF1-AS1 and VRF1-AS3. The proportions of VRF1-AS1 and VRF1-AS3 are modulated by environmental factors, serving as a molecular switch mediating the transition from tolerance to early flowering, irrespective of their absolute abundance. VRF1-AS1 and VRF1-AS3 competitively bind to MKK1, resulting in MKK1 phosphorylation at different sites, which opens two distinct regulatory pathways. The role of VRF1 is conserved across various conditions, and 66 Arabidopsis ecotypes suggest its central function in stress avoidance through premature flowering. In summary, our findings show that plants respond precisely and effectively to dynamic environmental changes by modulating their isoform ratios.
PXD053738	39489196	Redox proteomic analysis of H2O2 -treated Jurkat cells and effects of bicarbonate and knockout of peroxiredoxins 1 and 2. 	Redox proteomic analysis of H2O2 -treated Jurkat cells and effects of bicarbonate and  peroxiredoxins 1 and 2	thiol redox proteomic changes	Oxidation of thiol proteins and redox signaling occurs in cells exposed to H2O2 but mechanisms are unclear. We used redox proteomics to seek evidence of oxidation of specific proteins either by a mechanism involving reaction of H2O2 with CO2/bicarbonate to give the more reactive peroxymonocarbonate, or via a relay involving peroxiredoxins (Prdxs). Changes in oxidation state of specific Cys-SH residues on treating Jurkat T lymphoma cells with H2O2 were measured by isotopically labeling reduced thiols and analysis by mass spectrometry. The effects of bicarbonate and of knocking out either Prdx1 or Prdx2 were examined. Approximately 14,000 Cys-peptides were detected, of which ~ 1% underwent 2-10 fold loss in thiol content with H2O2. Those showing the most oxidation were not affected by the presence of bicarbonate or knockout of either Prdx. Consistent with previous evidence that bicarbonate potentiates inactivation of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, the GAPDH active site Cys residues were significantly more sensitive to H2O2 when bicarbonate was present. Several other proteins were identified as promising candidates for further investigation. Although we identified some potential protein candidates for Prdx- dependent oxidation, most of the significant differences between KO and WT cells were seen in proteins for which H2O2 unexpectedly increased their CysSH content over untreated cells. We conclude that facilitation of protein oxidation by bicarbonate or Prdx-mediated relays is restricted to a small number of proteins and is insufficient to explain the majority of the oxidation of cell thiols that occurs in response to H2O2.
PXD055763	39489738	VCP enhances autophagy-related osteosarcoma progression by recruiting USP2 to inhibit ubiquitination and degradation of FASN. 	VCP enhances autophagy-related osteosarcoma progression by recruiting USP2 to inhibit ubiquitination and degradation of FASN		Osteosarcoma (OS) is a highly aggressive malignant tumor with a high rate of disability and mortality rates, and dysregulated autophagy is a crucial factor in cancer. However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate autophagy in OS remain unclear. This study aimed to explore key molecules that affect autophagy in OS and their regulatory mechanisms. We found that fatty acid synthase (FASN) was significantly increased in activated autophagy models of OS and promoted OS proliferation in an autophagy-dependent manner, as detected by LC3 double-labeled fluorescence confocal microscopy, western blotting, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), and cell functional experiments. Furthermore, co-immunoprecipitation combined with mass spectrometry (Co-IP/MS), ubiquitination modification, molecular docking, and protein truncation methods were used to identify FASN-interacting proteins and analyze their effects on OS. Valosin-containing protein (VCP) enhanced the FASN stability by recruiting ubiquitin specific peptidase-2 (USP2) to remove the K48-linked ubiquitin chains from FASN; domain 2 of VCP and the amino acid sequence () of USP2 were critical for their interactions. Gain- and loss-of-function experiments showed that the inhibition of FASN or USP2 attenuated the stimulatory effect of VCP overexpression on autophagy and the malignant phenotypes of OS cells in vitro and in vivo. Notably, micro-CT indicated that VCP induced severe bone destruction in nude mice, which was abrogated by FASN or USP2 downregulation. In summary, VCP recruits USP2 to stabilize FASN by deubiquitylation, thereby activating autophagy and promoting OS progression. The identification of the VCP/USP2/FASN axis, which mediates autophagy regulation, provides important insights into the underlying mechanisms of OS and offers potential diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for patients with OS.
PXD053678	39491529	Integrative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Profiling Reveals the Salt-Responsive Mechanisms in Two Rice Varieties (Oryza Sativa subsp. Japonica and Indica). 	High-throughput proteomic and phosphoproteomic approaches revealing the salt-responsive mechanisms in two different rice varieties	Calcium signaling, Indica subspecies, MME, Oryza sativa, Phosphoproteome, Salinity-stress, Tolerance	Salinity stress induces ionic and osmotic imbalances in rice plants that in turn negatively affect the photosynthesis rate, resulting in growth retardation and yield penalty. Efforts have, therefore, been carried out to understand the mechanism of salt tolerance, however, the complexity of biological processes at proteome levels remains a major challenge. Here, we performed a comparative proteome and phosphoproteome profiling of microsome enriched fractions of salt-tolerant (cv. IR73; indica) and salt-susceptible (cv. Dongjin/DJ; japonica) rice varieties. This approach led to the identification of 5856 proteins, of which 473 and 484 proteins showed differential modulation between DJ and IR73 sample sets, respectively. The phosphoproteome analysis led to the identification of a total of 10,873 phosphopeptides of which 2929 and 3049 phosphopeptides showed significant differences in DJ and IR73 sample sets, respectively. The integration of proteome and phosphoproteome data showed activation of ABA and Ca(2+) signaling components exclusively in the salt-tolerant variety IR73 in response to salinity stress. Taken together, our results highlight the changes at proteome and phosphoproteome levels and provide a mechanistic understanding of salinity stress tolerance in rice.
PXD053321	39491647	O-GlcNAcylation of RPA2 at S4/S8 antagonizes phosphorylation and regulates checkpoint activation during replication stress. 	O-GlcNAcylation of RPA2 at S4/S8 antagonizes phosphorylation and regulates checkpoint activation during replication stress	O-GlcNAcylation, RPA2	O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) is the most abundant mono-saccharide modification occurring in the cytoplasm, nucleus and mitochondria. Recent advent of the mass spectrometry technology has enabled identification of abundant O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) substrates in diverse biological processes, such as cell cycle progression, replication and DNA damage response. Herein we report the O-GlcNAcylation of Replication Protein A2 (RPA2), a component of the heterotrimeric RPA complex pivotal for DNA metabolism. We found that RPA2 interacts with OGT, and a topoisomerase II inhibitor, etoposide, diminishes the association. Using higher-energy collisional dissociation mass spectrometry, we mapped RPA2 O-GlcNAc sites to be Ser-4/Ser-8, which are well-known PIKK-dependent RPA2 phosphorylation sites involved in checkpoint activation upon replication stress. We further demonstrated that Ser-4/Ser-8 O-GlcNAcylation antagonizes phosphorylation and impairs downstream Chk1 activation. Moreover, RPA2 O-GlcNAcylation sustains H2AX phosphorylation upon etoposide treatment, and promotes inappropriate cell cycle progression, indicative of checkpoint defects. Our work not only unveils a new OGT substrate, but also underscores the distinct roles of OGT in replication versus replication stress.
PXD048895	39492659	Sex Differences in Response to Diet Enriched with Glutathione Precursors in the Aging Heart. 	Sex Differences in Response to Glutathione Precursors in the Aging Heart	aging, extracellular matrix, heart, mitochondria, sex differences	Common features of the aging heart are dysregulated metabolism, inflammation, and fibrosis. Elevated oxidative stress is another hallmark of cardiac aging that can exacerbate each of these conditions. We hypothesize that by increasing natural antioxidant levels (glutathione), we will improve cardiac function. Twenty-one-month-old mice were fed Glycine and N-Acetyl Cysteine (GlyNAC) (glutathione precursors)-supplemented or control diets for 12 weeks. Heart function was monitored longitudinally, and the exercise performance was determined at the end of the study. We found that the GlyNAC diet was beneficial for old male but not old female mice, leading to an increase of Ndufb8 expression (a subunit of the mitochondrial respiratory chain complex), and higher enzymatic activity for CPT1b and CrAT, two carnitine acyltransferases that are critical to cardiomyocyte metabolism. Although no quantifiable change of collagen turnover was detected, hearts from GlyNAC-fed old males exhibited a slight but significant enrichment in Fmod, a protein that can inhibit collagen fibril formation, possibly reducing extracellular matrix (ECM) stiffness and thus improving diastolic function. Cardiac diastolic function was modestly improved in males but not females, and surprisingly GlyNAC-fed female mice showed a decline in exercise performance. In summary, our work supports the concept that aged male and female hearts are phenotypically different. These basic differences may affect the response to pharmacological and diet interventions, including antioxidants.
PXD056219	39493878	Exploring heparin's protective mechanism against AGEs induced endothelial injury. 	Protective mechanisms of heparin against AGEs-induced endothelial injury	AGEs, Diabetes, Heparin, Human Umbilical Vein Endothelial Cells (HUVECs)	Advanced glycation end products (AGEs) in diabetes can cause endothelial damage. Heparin, widely known as a recognized anticoagulant, is also a multifunctional therapeutic drug. This study investigated whether heparin could ameliorate AGEs-induced endothelial injury. Remarkably, heparin effectively attenuated this cellular damage and assumed a reparative role. Furthermore, heparin inhibited the AGEs-RAGE-NFkappaB axis, thereby mitigating endothelial inflammatory injury. Comprehensive proteome and knockdown experiments suggested that heparin may exert a positive influence on cell growth and further alleviate pathological damage by upregulating the expression of LYAR (cell growth-regulating nucleolar protein). Diabetic mouse model was also used to further verify the changes of endothelial tissue in diabetic state and heparin intervention. In summary, these findings demonstrate that heparin has the potential to ameliorate AGEs-induced endothelial injury, opening new avenues for exploring the expanded therapeutic roles of heparin and its potential application in the management of diabetes and its associated complications.
PXD049234	39494508	ALS-associated FUS mutation reshapes the RNA and protein composition of stress granules. 	Stress Granules FUS WT e FUS P525L	ALS, RNA-binding proteins, Stress Granules, aggregation, neurodegeneration	Stress granules (SG) are part of a cellular protection mechanism where untranslated messenger RNAs and RNA-binding proteins are stored upon conditions of cellular stress. Compositional variations due to qualitative or quantitative protein changes can disrupt their functionality and alter their structure. This is the case of different forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) where a causative link has been proposed between the cytoplasmic de-localization of mutant proteins, such as FUS (Fused in Sarcoma), and the formation of cytotoxic inclusions. Here, we describe the SG transcriptome in neuroblastoma cells and define several features for RNA recruitment in these condensates. We demonstrate that SG dynamics and RNA content are strongly modified by the incorporation of mutant FUS, switching to a more unstructured, AU-rich SG transcriptome. Moreover, we show that mutant FUS, together with its protein interactors and their target RNAs, are responsible for the reshaping of the mutant SG transcriptome with alterations that can be linked to neurodegeneration. Our data describe the molecular differences between physiological and pathological SG in ALS-FUS conditions, showing how FUS mutations impact the RNA and protein composition of these condensates.
PXD061638	39494541	The PRIDE database at 20 years: 2025 update. 	Astral-DIA Proteomics Deciphers the Molecular Landscape of Human Spermatozoa: A Comprehensive Quantitative Proteomic Characterization of Sperm Function and Fertility Potential	Astral-DIA, Human Spermatozoa, Sperm Function	The PRoteomics IDEntifications (PRIDE) database (https://www.ebi.ac.uk/pride/) is the world's leading mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics data repository and one of the founding members of the ProteomeXchange consortium. This manuscript summarizes the developments in PRIDE resources and related tools for the last three years. The number of submitted datasets to PRIDE Archive (the archival component of PRIDE) has reached on average around 534 datasets per month. This has been possible thanks to continuous improvements in infrastructure such as a new file transfer protocol for very large datasets (Globus), a new data resubmission pipeline and an automatic dataset validation process. Additionally, we will highlight novel activities such as the availability of the PRIDE chatbot (based on the use of open-source Large Language Models), and our work to improve support for MS crosslinking datasets. Furthermore, we will describe how we have increased our efforts to reuse, reanalyze and disseminate high-quality proteomics data into added-value resources such as UniProt, Ensembl and Expression Atlas.
PXD050768	39497064	Extracellular vesicles from microglial cells activated by abnormal heparan sulfate oligosaccharides from Sanfilippo patients impair neuronal dendritic arborization. 	Extracellular vesicles derived from MPSIII microglia cell model impair neurite growth	EVs, GAG, MPSIII, microglia cells, timsTOF Pro2	BACKGROUND: In mucopolysaccharidosis type III (MPS III, also known as Sanfilippo syndrome), a pediatric neurodegenerative disorder, accumulation of abnormal glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) induces severe neuroinflammation by triggering the microglial pro-inflammatory cytokines production via a TLR4-dependent pathway. But the extent of the microglia contribution to the MPS III neuropathology remains unclear. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) mediate intercellular communication and are known to participate in the pathogenesis of adult neurodegenerative diseases. However, characterization of the molecular profiles of EVs released by MPS III microglia and their effects on neuronal functions have not been described. METHODS: Here, we isolated EVs secreted by the microglial cells after treatment with GAGs purified from urines of Sanfilippo patients (sfGAGs-EVs) or from age-matched healthy subjects (nGAGs-EVs) to explore the EVs' proteins and small RNA profiles using LC-MS/MS and RNA sequencing. We next performed a functional assay by immunofluorescence following nGAGs- or sfGAGs-EVs uptake by WT primary cortical neurons and analyzed their extensions metrics after staining of betaIII-tubulin and MAP2 by confocal microscopy. RESULTS: Functional enrichment analysis for both proteomics and RNA sequencing data from sfGAGs-EVs revealed a specific content involved in neuroinflammation and neurodevelopment pathways. Treatment of cortical neurons with sfGAGs-EVs induced a disease-associated phenotype demonstrated by a lower total neurite surface area, an impaired somatodendritic compartment, and a higher number of immature dendritic spines. CONCLUSIONS: This study shows, for the first time, that GAGs from patients with Sanfilippo syndrome can induce microglial secretion of EVs that deliver a specific molecular message to recipient naive neurons, while promoting the neuroinflammation, and depriving neurons of neurodevelopmental factors. This work provides a framework for further studies of biomarkers to evaluate efficiency of emerging therapies.
PXD056591	39497619	Isolation and Comprehensive Analysis of Cochlear Tissue-Derived Small Extracellular Vesicles. 	Isolation and Comprehensive Analysis of Cochlear Tissue-derived Small Extracellular Vesicles	Cochlear tissue-derived small extracellular vesicles, Label-free proteomic profiling	Small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) act as a critical mediator in intercellular communication. Compared to sEVs derived from in vitro sources, tissue-derived sEVs can reflect the in vivo signals released from specific tissues more accurately. Currently, studies on the role of sEVs in the cochlea have relied on studying sEVs from in vitro sources. This study evaluates three cochlear tissue digestion and cochlear tissue-derived sEV (CDsEV) isolation methods, and first proposes that the optimal approach for isolating CDsEVs using collagenase D and DNase I combined with sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Furthermore, it comprehensively investigates CDsEV contents and cell origins. Small RNA sequencing and proteomics are performed to analyze the miRNAs and proteins of CDsEVs. The miRNAs and proteins of CDsEVs are crucial for maintaining normal auditory function. Among them, FGFR1 in CDsEVs may mediate the survival of cochlear hair cells via sEVs. Finally, the joint analysis of single CDsEV sequencing and single-cell RNA sequencing data is utilized to trace cellular origins of CDsEVs. The results show that different types of cochlear cells secrete different amounts of CDsEVs, with Koelliker's organ cells and supporting cells secrete the most. The findings are expected to enhance the understanding of CDsEVs in the cochlea.
PXD051283	39500328	Non-invasive lipid panel of MASLD fibrosis transition underscores the role of lipoprotein sulfatides in hepatic immunomodulation. 	Non-invasive lipid panel of MASLD fibrosis transition underscores the role of lipoprotein sulfatides in hepatic immunomodulation	MASLD, Non-insasive, lipoprotein, sulfatides	There exists a pressing need for a non-invasive panel that differentiates mild fibrosis from non-fibrosis in metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). In this work, we applied quantitative lipidomics and sterolomics on sera from the PERSONS cohort with biopsy-based histological assessment of liver pathology. We trained a lasso regression model using quantitative omics data and clinical variables, deriving a combinatorial panel of lipids and clinical indices that differentiates mild fibrosis (>F1, n = 324) from non-fibrosis (F0, n = 195), with an area under receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) at 0.775 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.735-0.816). Circulating sulfatides (SLs) emerged as central lipids distinctly associated with fibrosis pathogenesis in MASLD. Lipidomics analysis of lipoprotein fractions revealed a redistribution of circulating SLs from high-density lipoproteins (HDLs) onto low-density lipoproteins (LDLs) in MASLD fibrosis. We further verified that patient LDLs with reduced SL content triggered a smaller activation of type II natural killer T lymphocytes, compared with control LDLs. Our results suggest that hepatic crosstalk with systemic immunity mediated by lipoprotein metabolism underlies fibrosis progression at early-stage MASLD.
PXD052099	39501047	Spatiotemporal protein interactome profiling through condensation-enhanced photocrosslinking. 	Spatial-temporal protein interactome profiling via condensation enhanced crosslinking	Biomolecular condensates, Photo-crosslinking, Protein-protein interaction	Resolving protein-protein interactions (PPIs) inside biomolecular condensates is crucial for elucidating their functions and regulation mechanisms. The transient nature of condensates and the multiple localizations of clients, however, have rendered it challenging to determine compartment-specific PPIs. Here we developed a condensation-enhanced, spatially directed, metabolic incorporation-assisted photocrosslinking strategy-termed DenseMAP-for spatiotemporally resolved dissection of the direct protein interactome within condensates. By leveraging our condensation-enhanced photocrosslinker and the spatially directed biotin tagging, DenseMAP enabled stress-granule-specific interactome mapping of the N(6)-methyladenosine readers YTHDF1 and YTHDF2, and uncovered the functional role of phosphorylation on the SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein in regulating virus replication. Further applying DenseMAP for direct interactome mapping of the subcompartmental scaffold protein NPM1 deciphered nucleolar granular component proteome, and unveiled the critical role of SUMOylation in controlling nucleolar proteome homeostasis. DenseMAP provides a platform technology for analysing functional PPI networks within subcellular and subcompartmental condensates under diverse physiological and/or pathological settings.
PXD044254	39502510	Comparative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Analyses Reveal Molecular Signatures of Myocardial Infarction and Transverse Aortic Constriction in Aged Mouse Models. 	Phosphoproteomic Analysis Reveals Molecular Signatures of Myocardial Infarction and Transverse Aortic Constriction in Aged Mouse Models	Aging, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Hypertension, Myocardial infarction, Phosphoproteome, ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP)	In the elderly population, coronary heart disease (CHD) often coexists with hypertension. However, excessive blood pressure reduction can paradoxically increase the incidence of adverse events. Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying hypertension and CHD in aged populations is crucial for developing targeted therapies and improving clinical outcomes. In this study, we constructed myocardial infarction (MI) and transverse aortic constriction (TAC) modelsY in aged mice to simulate the disease states of CHD and hypertension, respectively. Using integrated proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses, we investigated the molecular signatures associated with MI and TAC in these models. Our aim was to identify key molecules involved in these conditions and to understand their unique and shared characteristics. Through our comprehensive proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis, we identified a total of 1583 proteins and 232 phosphorylated proteins. We observed significant upregulation of heart disease markers such as Myh7, Xirp2, and Acta1, indicating the successful establishment of the MI and TAC models. The overlapped differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and differentially phosphorylated proteins (DPPs) in MI and TAC were involved in heart failure-related processes including cardiac muscle contraction and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, further supporting the validity of the models. Among the DEPs, Ppme1 was upregulated in the TAC model but downregulated in the MI model, while Sec31a and Gm56451 displayed the opposite expression patterns. Among the DPPs, Ablim1 and Atp2a2 were found to be significantly upregulated in the TAC model, whereas their expression was markedly reduced in the MI model. In addition, five other DPPs, including REV_Q3TAY5, Cbx3, PITPNB, Eif4b, and A0A1Y7VP73, were elevated in the MI model but decreased in the TAC model. In conclusion, these findings suggest that MI and TAC not only share certain molecular features but also retain their unique characteristics, providing potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
PXD050573	39505910	AMFR-mediated Flavivirus NS2A ubiquitination subverts ER-phagy to augment viral pathogenicity. 	ZIKV-infected human lung cancer cells	ZIKV, lung cancer cells	Flaviviruses strategically utilize the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) in their replication cycles. However, the role of ER autophagy (ER-phagy) in viral replication process remains poorly understood. Here, we reveal that prolonged Zika virus (ZIKV) infection results from the degradation of ER-phagy receptor FAM134B, facilitated by viral NS2A protein. Mechanistically, ER-localized NS2A undergoes K48-linked polyubiquitination at lysine (K) 56 by E3 ligase AMFR. Ubiquitinated NS2A binds to FAM134B and AMFR orchestrates the degradation of NS2A-FAM134B complexes. AMFR-catalyzed NS2A ubiquitination not only targets FAM134B degradation but also hinders the FAM134B-AMFR axis. Notably, a recombinant ZIKV mutant (ZIKV-NS2AK56R), lacking ubiquitination and ER-phagy inhibition, exhibits attenuation in ZIKV-induced microcephalic phenotypes in human brain organoids and replicates less efficiently, resulting in weakened pathogenesis in mouse models. In this work, our mechanistic insights propose that flaviviruses manipulate ER-phagy to modulate ER turnover, driving viral infection. Furthermore, AMFR-mediated flavivirus NS2A ubiquitination emerges as a potential determinant of viral pathogenecity.
PXD052326	39505925	Lysosomal enzyme binding to the cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor is regulated allosterically by insulin-like growth factor 2. 	Conformational Changes in sCIMPR upon binding with IGF-2	HRPF, IGF2, sCIMPR	The cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor (CI-MPR) is clinically significant in the treatment of patients with lysosomal storage diseases because it functions in the biogenesis of lysosomes by transporting mannose 6-phosphate (M6P)-containing lysosomal enzymes to endosomal compartments. CI-MPR is multifunctional and modulates embryonic growth and fetal size by downregulating circulating levels of the peptide hormone insulin-like growth factor 2 (IGF2). The extracellular region of CI-MPR comprises 15 homologous domains with binding sites for M6P-containing ligands located in domains 3, 5, 9, and 15, whereas IGF2 interacts with residues in domain 11. How a particular ligand affects the receptor's conformation or its ability to bind other ligands remains poorly understood. To address these questions, we purified a soluble form of the receptor from newborn calf serum, carried out glycoproteomics to define the N-glycans at its 19 potential glycosylation sites, probed its ability to bind lysosomal enzymes in the presence and absence of IGF2 using surface plasmon resonance, and assessed its conformation in the presence and absence of IGF2 by negative-staining electron microscopy and hydroxyl radical protein footprinting studies. Together, our findings support the hypothesis that IGF2 acts as an allosteric inhibitor of lysosomal enzyme binding by inducing global conformational changes of CI-MPR.
PXD017192	39508840	Phosphoproteomic Response to Epidermal Growth Factor in Native Rat Inner Medullary Collecting Duct. 	Epidermal Growth Factor-Induced Protein Phosphorylation Changes in Rat Inner Medullary Collecting Duct	ERBB, MAPK, kidney, protein kinase, vasopressin, water	Epidermal growth factor (EGF) has important effects in the renal collecting duct to regulate salt and water transport. To identify elements of EGF-mediated signaling in the rat renal inner medullary collecting duct (IMCD), we carried out phosphoproteomics analysis. Biochemically isolated rat IMCD suspensions were treated with 1 muM of EGF or vehicle for 30 min. We performed comprehensive quantitative phosphoproteomics using TMT-labeling of tryptic peptides followed by protein mass spectrometry. We present a data resource reporting all detected phosphorylation sites and their changes in response to EGF. For a total of 29,881 unique phosphorylation sites, 135 sites were increased and 119 sites were decreased based on stringent statistical analysis. The data are provided to users at https://esbl.nhlbi.nih.gov/Databases/EGF-phospho/. Analysis demonstrated that EGF signals through canonical EGF pathways in the renal IMCD. Analysis of KEGG pathways in which EGF-regulated phosphoproteins are over-represented in native rat IMCD cells confirmed mapping to RAF-MEK-ERK signaling, but also pointed to a role for EGF in the regulation of protein translation. A large number of phosphoproteins regulated by EGF contained PDZ domains that are key elements of epithelial polarity determination. We also provide a collecting duct EGF-network map as a user accessible web resource at https://esbl.nhlbi.nih.gov/Databases/EGF-network/. Overall, the phosphoproteomic data presented provide a useful resource for experimental design and modeling of signaling in the renal collecting duct.
PXD054060	39508845	HLA class II neoantigen presentation for CD4(+) T cell surveillance in HLA class II-negative colorectal cancer. 	HLA class II ligandome of colon cancer tissues for neoantigen identification	HLA ligandome analysis, proteogenomics	Neoantigen-reactive CD4(+) T cells play a key role in the anti-tumor immune response. However, the majority of epithelial tumors are negative for HLA class II (HLA-II) surface expression, and less is known about the processing of HLA-II antigens. Here, we directly identified naturally presented HLA-II neoantigens in HLA-II negative colorectal cancer (CRC) tissue using a proteogenomic approach. The neoantigens were immunogenic and induced patient CD4(+) T cells with a Th1-like memory phenotype that produced IFN-gamma, IL2 and TNF-alpha. Multiplex immunohistochemistry (IHC) demonstrated an interaction between Th cells and HLA-II-positive antigen-presenting cells (APCs) at the invasive margin and within the tertiary lymphoid structures (TLS). In our CRC cohort, the density of stromal APCs was associated with HLA-II antigen presentation in the tumor microenvironment (TME), and the number of TLS was positively correlated with the number of somatic mutations in the tumors. These results demonstrate the presence of neoantigen-specific CD4(+) surveillance in HLA-II-negative CRC and suggest a potential role for macrophages and dendritic cells (DCs) at the invasive margin and in TLS for antigen presentation. Stromal APCs in the TME can potentially be used as a source for HLA-II neoantigen identification.
PXD050400	39508866	PARylation of GCN5 by PARP1 mediates its recruitment to DSBs and facilitates both HR and NHEJ Repair. 	GCN5 interactome in U87MG Control, IR and doxorubicin treated conditions	GCN5, U87MG, doxorubicin, irradiation	Efficient DNA double strand break (DSB) repair is necessary for genomic stability and determines efficacy of DNA damaging cancer therapeutics. Spatiotemporal dynamics and post-translational modifications of repair proteins at DSBs dictate repair efficacy. Here, we identified a non-canonical function of GCN5 in regulating both HR and NHEJ repair post genotoxic stress. Mechanistically, genotoxic stress induced GCN5 recruitment to DSBs. GCN5 PARylation by PARP1 was essential for its recruitment, acetyltransferase activity and DSB repair function. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) identified DNA-PKcs as part of GCN5 interactome. In-vitro acetyltransferase assays revealed that GCN5 acetylates DNA-PKcs at K3241 residue, a prerequisite for DNA-PKcs S2056 phosphorylation and DSB recruitment. Alongside, ChIP-qPCR revealed GCN5 mediates transcription of PRKDC via H3K27Ac acetylation in its promoter region (- 710 to - 554). Genetic perturbation of GCN5 also decreased CHEK1, NBN1, TP53BP1, POL-L transcription and abrogated ATM, BRCA1 activation. Accordingly, GCN5 loss led to persistent gamma-H2AX foci formation, compromised in-vivo HR-NHEJ and caused GBM radio-sensitization. Importantly, PARP1 inhibition phenocopied GCN5 loss. Together, this study identifies an untraversed DSB repair function of GCN5 and provides mechanistic insights into transcriptional as well as post-translational regulation of pivotal HR-NHEJ factors. Alongside, it highlights the translational importance of PARP1-GCN5 axis in mediating GBM radio-resistance.
PXD051323	39509607	Tunable Activated Esters Enable Lysine-Selective Protein Labeling and Profiling. 	Tunable activated esters for lysine labeling in proteome	activated esters, lysine modification	Lysine residues on protein surfaces are abundant and often found in enzyme active sites, making them critical targets for studying undruggable proteins. However, the varied microenvironment surrounding lysine residues results in a wide range of pKa values, complicating site-specific covalent binding. In this study, we address the challenges posed by the diverse reactivity of amino side chains by modulating the amide reaction activity of heteroaromatic activated esters. By fine-tuning the type, position, and number of heteroatoms, we successfully rationalized the regulation of their amide reaction activity, leading to the design of probes for selective lysine labeling within the proteome for profiling purposes. Systematic optimization of these esters' reactivity and selectivity has yielded a series of effective probes suitable for both in vitro and cellular applications. These findings significantly enhance our understanding of protein functions and mechanisms, facilitated by the precise identification and analysis of protein labeling and profiling.
PXD056577	39510185	The non-canonical RNA binding protein RAN stabilizes the mRNA of intranuclear stress granule assembly factor G3BP1 in nasopharyngeal carcinoma. 	RAN, TDP43 and G3BP1 mRNA form a complex	G3BP1 mRNA, RAN, TDP43	RNA binding proteins play critical roles in tumor progression by participating in the post-transcriptional regulation of RNA. However, the levels and function of RBPs in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) remain elusive. Here we identified a non-canonical RNA binding protein RAN that has the most significant role in NPC progression by a small siRNA pool screening. Functionally, RAN facilitates NPC proliferation and metastasis in vitro and in vivo. High levels of RAN are associated with poor prognosis of NPC patients and can be performed as a prognostic biomarker. Mechanistically, RAN increases the nucleus import of TDP43 and enhances TDP43 nuclear distribution. On the other hand, RAN is directly bound to the coding sequence of G3BP1 mRNA and serves as an adapter to facilitate TDP43 interacting with G3BP1 mRNA 3' untranslated region. These contribute to increasing G3BP1 mRNA stability in the nucleus and lead to up-regulation of G3BP1, which further enhances AKT and ERK signaling and ultimately promotes NPC proliferation and metastasis. These findings reveal that RAN stabilizes intranuclear G3BP1 mRNA by dual mechanisms: recruiting TDP43 into the nucleus and enhancing its interaction with G3BP1 mRNA, suggesting a critical role of RAN in NPC progression and providing a new regulation framework of RBP-RNA.
PXD026984	39510795	TMED inhibition suppresses cell surface PD-1 expression and overcomes T cell dysfunction. 	TMED10 INHIBITION SUPPRESSES CELL-SURFACE PD-1 EXPRESSION AND REVERSES T CELL DYSFUNCTION	LC-MS, PD-1, T-cell dysfunction, TMED10, melanoma	BACKGROUND: Blockade of the programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) immune checkpoint (ICB) is revolutionizing cancer therapy, but little is known about the mechanisms governing its expression on CD8 T cells. Because PD-1 is induced during activation of T cells, we set out to uncover regulators whose inhibition suppresses PD-1 abundance without adversely impacting on T cell activation. METHODS: To identify PD-1 regulators in an unbiased fashion, we performed a whole-genome, fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS)-based CRISPR-Cas9 screen in primary murine CD8 T cells. A dual-readout design using the activation marker CD137 allowed us to uncouple genes involved in PD-1 regulation from those governing general T cell activation. RESULTS: We found that the inactivation of one of several members of the TMED/EMP24/GP25L/p24 family of transport proteins, most prominently TMED10, reduced PD-1 cell surface abundance, thereby augmenting T cell activity. Another client protein was cytotoxic T lymphocyte-associated protein 4 (CTLA-4), which was also suppressed by TMED inactivation. Treatment with TMED inhibitor AGN192403 led to lysosomal degradation of the TMED-PD-1 complex and reduced PD-1 abundance in tumor-infiltrating CD8 T cells (TIL) in mice, thus reversing T cell dysfunction. Clinically corroborating these findings, single-cell RNA analyses revealed a positive correlation between TMED expression in CD8 TIL, and both a T cell dysfunction signature and lack of ICB response. Similarly, patients receiving a TIL product with high TMED expression had a shorter overall survival. CONCLUSION: Our results uncover a novel mechanism of PD-1 regulation, and identify a pharmacologically tractable target whose inhibition suppresses PD-1 abundance and T cell dysfunction.
PXD051625	39511243	A mass spectrometry-based peptidomic dataset of the spermosphere in common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) seeds. 	Characterization of the peptidome in the spermosphere of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris)	Biotic interactions, Common bean, Germination, Peptides, Seeds, Spermosphere	The spermosphere, a dynamic microenvironment surrounding germinating seeds, is shaped by the complex interactions between natural compounds exuded by seeds and seed-associated microbial communities. While peptides exuded by plants are known to influence microbiota diversity, little is known about those specifically exuded by seeds. In this study, we characterised the peptidome profile of the spermosphere for the first time using seeds from eight genotypes of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) grown in two contrasting production regions. An untargeted LC-MS/MS peptidomic analysis revealed 3,258 peptides derived from 414 precursor proteins of common bean in the spermosphere. This comprehensive peptidomic dataset provides valuable insights into the characteristics of peptides exuded by common bean seeds in the spermosphere. It can be used to identify peptides with potential antimicrobial or other biological activities, advancing our understanding of the functional roles of seed-exuded peptides in the spermosphere.
PXD042569	39511251	Protein degradation kinetics measured by microinjection and live-cell fluorescence microscopy. 	N-terminal modification of eGFP by LC-MSMS	Acetylation, N-degron, PTM, eGFP	We have developed a method combining microinjection and automated fluorescence microscopy to continuously assess the degradation rate, subcellular localization and intracellular concentration of protein analytes at the single-cell level. Cells are unperturbed and grown in unaltered environmental conditions and show high viability. The injection of analytes at defined ratios and concentrations allows for a clearly defined starting point of degradation, without the entanglement of biosynthesis/uptake, often encountered in existing methods. The possibility to evaluate, add, or remove post-translational modifications prior to injection represents a powerful tool to assess minute protein degradation rate changes with high precision and allowed us to determine the absolute degradation rates caused by N-degron pathway engagement, with a focus on the role of acetylation. The low degradation rate of eGFP was found to be caused by inefficient N-terminal proteasomal unfolding. We moreover quantified the surprisingly strong influences of commonly used peptide tags and detected high variation between fluorescent proteins with regard to both protein degradation and subcellular localization. Furthermore, we have validated the use of chemically coupled dyes as robust reporters for protein degradation, and elucidated the significance of their membrane-permeability, thereby extending the applicability of our method to any protein of interest.
PXD053310	39511334	Protein-RNA interaction dynamics reveal key regulators of oncogenic KRAS-driven cancers. 	Protein-RNA interaction dynamics downstream of KRAS activation reveals key regulators  of oncogenic KRAS driven cancers.	Lung, RBP	KRAS is one of the most frequently mutated oncogenes across various cancers. Oncogenic KRAS mutations rewire cellular signaling, leading to significant alterations in gene expression. RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) play a pivotal role in gene expression regulation by post-transcriptionally controlling various aspects of RNA metabolism. It has become clear that interactions between RBPs and RNA are frequently dysregulated in numerous cancers. However, how oncogenic KRAS mutations reshape the post-transcriptional regulatory network mediated by RBPs remains poorly understood. In this study, we systematically dissected oncogenic KRAS-driven alterations of RNA-RBP networks. We identified 35 cancer-associated RBPs with either increased or decreased RNA binding upon oncogenic KRAS activation, including PDCD11, which is essential for the viability of KRAS mutant cancers, and ELAVL2, which regulates cell migration in KRAS mutant lung cancers. Our study serves as a crucial resource for elucidating RBP regulatory networks in KRAS mutant cancers and may provide new avenues for therapeutic strategies targeting KRAS mutant malignancies.
PXD046930	39511483	Upregulation of ENAH by a PI3K/AKT/beta-catenin cascade promotes oral cancer cell migration and growth via an ITGB5/Src axis. 	iTRAQ-based identification of oral cancer progression-related proteins with tumor tissues from oral cancer patients and patient-derived xenograft mouse models	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, iTRAQ, oral cavity squamous cell carcinoma, patient-derived xenografts, tumor tissue	BACKGROUND: Oral cancer accounts for 2% of cancer-related deaths globally, with over 90% of cases being oral cavity squamous cell carcinomas (OSCCs). Approximately 50% of patients with OSCC succumb to the disease within 5 years, primarily due to the advanced stage at which it is typically diagnosed. This underscores an urgent need to identify proteins related to OSCC progression to develop effective diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. METHODS: To identify OSCC progression-related proteins, we conducted integrated proteome and transcriptome analyses on cancer tissues from patients and patient-derived xenograft (PDX) model mice. We investigated the role of protein-enabled homolog (ENAH), identified as an OSCC progression-associated protein, through proliferation, transwell migration, and invasion assays in OSCC cells. The mechanisms underlying ENAH-mediated functions were elucidated using gene knockdown and ectopic expression techniques in OSCC cells. RESULTS: ENAH was identified as a candidate associated with OSCC progression based on integrated analyses, which showed increased ENAH levels in primary OSCC tissues compared with adjacent noncancerous counterparts, and sustained overexpression in the cancer tissues of PDX models. We confirmed that level of ENAH is increased in OSCC tissues and that its elevated expression correlates with poorer survival rates in patients with OSCC. Furthermore, the upregulation of ENAH in OSCC cells results from the activation of the GSK3beta/beta-catenin axis by the EGFR/PI3K/AKT cascade. ENAH expression enhances cell proliferation and mobility by upregulating integrin beta5 in oral cancer cells. CONCLUSIONS: The upregulation of ENAH through a PI3K/AKT/beta-catenin signaling cascade enhances oral cancer cell migration and growth via the ITGB5/Src axis. These findings offer a new interpretation of the ENAH function in the OSCC progression and provide crucial information for developing new OSCC treatment strategies.
PXD056794	39511688	Transcriptomic and de novo proteomic analyses of organotypic entorhino-hippocampal tissue cultures reveal changes in metabolic and signaling regulators in TTX-induced synaptic plasticity. 	Transcriptomic and de novo proteomic analyses of organotypic entorhino-hippocampal tissue cultures reveal changes in metabolic and signaling regulators in TTX-induced synaptic plasticity	homeostatic synaptic plasticity, organotypic tissue culture, transcriptome	Understanding the mechanisms of synaptic plasticity is crucial for elucidating how the brain adapts to internal and external stimuli. A key objective of plasticity is maintaining physiological activity states during perturbations by adjusting synaptic transmission through negative feedback mechanisms. However, identifying and characterizing novel molecular targets orchestrating synaptic plasticity remains a significant challenge. This study investigated the effects of tetrodotoxin (TTX)-induced synaptic plasticity within organotypic entorhino-hippocampal tissue cultures, offering insights into the functional, transcriptomic, and proteomic changes associated with network inhibition via voltage-gated sodium channel blockade. Our experiments demonstrate that TTX treatment induces substantial functional plasticity of excitatory synapses, as evidenced by increased miniature excitatory postsynaptic current (mEPSC) amplitudes and frequencies in both dentate granule cells and CA1 pyramidal neurons. Correlating transcriptomic and proteomic data, we identified novel targets for future research into homeostatic plasticity, including cytoglobin, SLIT-ROBO Rho GTPase Activating Protein 3, Transferrin receptor, and 3-Hydroxy-3-Methylglutaryl-CoA Synthase 1. These data provide a valuable resource for future studies aiming to understand the orchestration of homeostatic plasticity by metabolic pathways in distinct cell types of the central nervous system.
PXD056585	39512422	Controlled TPCA-1 delivery engineers a pro-tenogenic niche to initiate tendon regeneration by targeting IKKbeta/NF-kappaB signaling. 	The influence of IL-1beta and TNF-alpha on the tenogenic differentiation of human periodontal ligament stem cells via global proteomic analysis	IIL-1beta, TNF-alpha, hPDLScs, inflammation, tenogenesis	Tendon repair remains challenging due to its poor intrinsic healing capacity, and stem cell therapy has emerged as a promising strategy to promote tendon regeneration. Nevertheless, the inflammatory environment following acute tendon injuries disrupts stem cell differentiation, leading to unsatisfied outcomes. Our study recognized the critical role of NF-kappaB signaling in activating inflammation and suppressing tenogenic differentiation of stem cells after acute tendon injury via multiomics analysis. TPCA-1, a selective inhibitor of IKKbeta/NF-kappaB signaling, efficiently restored the impaired tenogenesis of stem cells in the inflammatory environment. By developing a microsphere-incorporated hydrogel system for stem cell delivery and controlled release of TPCA-1, we successfully engineered a pro-tenogenic niche to initiate tenogenesis for tendon regeneration. Collectively, we recognize NF-kappaB signaling as a critical target to tailor a pro-tenogenic niche and propose the combined delivery of stem cells and TPCA-1 as a potential strategy for acute tendon injuries.
PXD055986	39513265	Myocardial Posttranscriptional Landscape in Peripartum Cardiomyopathy. 	Proteomic and metabolomic profiling in human peripartum cardiomyopathy	heart, metabolome, multi-omics, peripartum cardiomyopathy, pregnancy	BACKGROUND: Pregnancy imposes significant cardiovascular adaptations, including progressive increases in plasma volume and cardiac output. For most women, this physiological adaptation resolves at the end of pregnancy, but some women develop pathological dilatation and ultimately heart failure late in pregnancy or in the postpartum period, manifesting as peripartum cardiomyopathy (PPCM). Despite the mortality risk of this form of heart failure, the molecular mechanisms underlying PPCM have not been extensively examined in human hearts. METHODS: Protein and metabolite profiles from left ventricular tissue of end-stage PPCM patients (N=6-7) were compared with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM; N=5-6) and nonfailing donors (N=7-18) using unbiased quantitative mass spectrometry. All samples were derived from the Sydney Heart Bank. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD055986. Differential protein expression and metabolite abundance and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway analyses were performed. RESULTS: Proteomic analysis identified 2 proteins, SBSPON (somatomedin B and thrombospondin type 1 domain-containing protein precursor) and TNS3 (tensin 3), that were uniquely downregulated in PPCM. SBSPON, an extracellular matrix protein, and TNS3, involved in actin remodeling and cell signaling, may contribute to impaired tissue remodeling and fibrosis in PPCM. Metabolomic analysis revealed elevated levels of homogentisate and deoxycholate and reduced levels of lactate and alanine in PPCM, indicating disrupted metabolic pathways and glucose utilization. Both PPCM and DCM shared pathways related to inflammation, immune responses, and signal transduction. However, thyroid hormone signaling was notably reduced in PPCM, affecting contractility and calcium handling through altered expression of PLN (phospholamban) and Sarcoendoplasmic Reticulum Calcium ATPase (SERCA). Enhanced endoplasmic reticulum stress and altered endocytosis pathways in PPCM suggested additional mechanisms of energy metabolism disruption. CONCLUSIONS: The present study reveals unique posttranslational molecular features of the PPCM myocardium, which mediates cellular and metabolic remodeling, and holds promise as potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
PXD054847	39513657	The Mechanism of TRIM21 Inhibiting the Invasion and Migration of ccRCC by Stabilizing ASS1. 	The mechanism of TRIM21 inhibiting the invasion and migration of ccRCC by stabilizing ASS1	Argininosuccinate synthase 1, Clear cell renal cell carcinoma, Tripartite motif-containing protein 21, Ubiquitination modification, Urea cycle dysregulation	Clear cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is characterized by its aggressive invasion and metastasis, presenting significant clinical challenges. Gaining insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying its progression is crucial for the development of effective therapeutic strategies. Addressing a critical knowledge gap in understanding ccRCC tumorigenesis, this study aims to elucidate the expression patterns of TRIM21 in ccRCC, unravel its impact on ccRCC patient prognosis, and investigate the regulatory role of TRIM21 in ASS1 expression and urea cycle dysregulation within the context of ccRCC. The results demonstrate that TRIM21 is downregulated in ccRCC, and low expression of TRIM21 predicts an unfavorable prognosis for ccRCC patients. Furthermore, the upregulation of TRIM21 can inhibit the migration and invasion of ccRCC cells by regulating the ubiquitination modification of ASS1. This not only expands the functional role of TRIM21 in ccRCC tumorigenesis but also demonstrates its ability to reverse urea cycle dysregulation through stabilizing ASS1 expression. Specifically, abnormal downregulation of TRIM21 in ccRCC reduces K63 ubiquitination modification of ASS1, leading to decreased stability of the ASS1 protein, aggravated urea cycle dysregulation, and facilitated migration and invasion of ccRCC cells. Additionally, reduction in ASS1 reverses the depressed migration and invasion caused by overexpression of TRIM21 in ccRCC cells. In summary, our findings contribute to a deeper understanding of the functional role played by TRIM21 in ccRCC progression, pinpoint a unique and novel regulatory mechanism involving ectopic downregulation-mediated ASS1 ubiquitination modification and urea cycle dysfunction during ccRCC progression, and provide fresh insights for further investigation into the pathogenesis and metabolic reprogramming associated with ccRCC.
PXD051181	39514105	Use of antibodies against Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 1 for detection of cellular proteins with monomethylated arginine residues that are potentially involved in viral transformation. 	Antibodies against the mono-methylated Arginine-Glycine repeat (MMA-RG) of the Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1) identify potential cellular proteins targeted in viral transformation	Arginine-methylation, EBNA1, Epstein-Barr Virus, mono-methyl-Arginine	Epstein-Barr virus nuclear antigen 1 (EBNA1) contains two arginine-glycine (RG) repeats that contain symmetric/asymmetric dimethylarginine (SDMA/ADMA) and monomethylarginine (MMA) residues. We generated mouse monoclonal antibodies directed against a monomethylated GRGRGG-containing repeat located between amino acids 328 and 377 of EBNA1. In addition to detecting MMA-modified EBNA1, we also had the goal of identifying cellular proteins that bind to MMA-modified EBNA1 in EBV-positive Raji cells. Furthermore, we hypothesized that antibodies against MMA-modified EBNA1 might also recognize cell factors that use an MMA-modified surface structure similar to that of EBNA1 to bind to their common targets. Using a combination of immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry, we identified a number of such cellular proteins, including SNRPD1-3, ALY/REF, RPS15, DIDO1, LSM12, LSM14A, DAP3, and CPSF1. An NACA complex protein that was shown previously to bind to the glycine-alanine repeat of EBNA1 was also identified. The proteins identified in this study are involved in splicing, tumorigenesis, transcriptional activation, DNA stability, and RNA processing or export.
PXD056690	39516489	Mammalian cell-based production of glycans, glycopeptides and glycomodules. 	Mammalian Cell-Based Production of Glycans, Glycopeptides and Glycomodules	carbohydrate synthesis, glycoengineering, glycosylation, mass photometry, microarray	Access to defined glycans and glycoconjugates is pivotal for discovery, dissection, and harnessing of a range of biological functions orchestrated by cellular glycosylation processes and the glycome. We previously employed genetic glycoengineering by nuclease-based gene editing to develop sustainable production of designer glycoprotein therapeutics and cell-based glycan arrays that display glycans in their natural context at the cell surface. However, access to human glycans in formats and quantities that allow structural studies of molecular interactions and use of glycans in biomedical applications currently rely on chemical and chemoenzymatic syntheses associated with considerable labor, waste, and costs. Here, we develop a sustainable and scalable method for production of glycans in glycoengineered mammalian cells by employing secreted Glycocarriers with repeat glycosylation acceptor sequence motifs for different glycans. The Glycocarrier technology provides a flexible production platform for glycans in different formats, including oligosaccharides, glycopeptides, and multimeric glycomodules, and offers wide opportunities for use in bioassays and biomedical applications.
PXD056989	39519403	Analysis of GCRV Pathogenesis and Therapeutic Measures Through Proteomic and Metabolomic Investigations in GCRV-Infected Tissues of Grass Carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella). 	Proteomic of grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon Idella) five tissues before and after GCRV infection	GCRV, Grass Carp	Hemorrhagic disease caused by grass carp reovirus (GCRV) infection is a major problem affecting the grass carp aquaculture industry. Therefore, inhibiting the spread of GCRV infection is of great economic significance. Herein, we sequenced five tissues (gill, liver, intestine, kidney, and muscle) from grass carp before and after GCRV infection using data-independent acquisition proteomic and untargeted metabolomic technologies, and quantitatively identified 10,808 proteins and 4040 metabolites. Then, we analyzed the differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and metabolites (DEMs) before and after GCRV infection in the five tissues. Gene ontology analysis revealed that the five tissue DEPs were enriched in metabolic, including carbohydrate and lipid metabolic processes. Chemical taxonomy analysis showed that the categories of DEMs mainly included carbohydrates and lipids, such as fatty acids, glycerophospholipids, steroids, and their derivatives. Both the proteomic and the metabolomic data showed that GCRV affected the carbohydrate and lipid metabolism in the host. Shared pathway analysis was performed at both the protein and metabolic levels, showing significant enrichment of the glycolysis and pentose phosphate pathways (p < 0.001). Further analysis of glycolysis and pentose phosphate pathway inhibitors revealed that these two pathways are important for GCRV replication. As the kidney was the most affected among the five tissues, we analyzed the butanoate metabolism in the kidney, which revealed that most of the differentially expressed proteins and differently expressed metabolites in the butanoate metabolism were related to the TCA cycle. Further investigation showed that fumaric acid, an intermediate product in the TCA cycle, significantly inhibited GCRV replication in the CIK cells (p < 0.001), and that this inhibitory effect may be related to its induction of interferon system activation. The addition of fumaric acid to feed increased the survival rate of juvenile grass carp by 19.60% during GCRV infection, and protected the tissues of those infected with GCRV, making it a potential anti-GCRV feed additive. Our results provide new perspectives on GCRV pathogenesis and antiviral strategies for grass carp.
PXD034145	39520587	Identification of metabolic and protein markers representative of the impact of mild nitrogen deficit on agronomic performance of maize hybrids. 	Impact of a mild nitrogen deficit on the leaf proteome of field-grown maize hybrids	field culture, leaves, maize, nitrogen deficit, shotgun proteomics	INTRODUCTION: A better understanding of the physiological response of silage maize to a mild reduction in nitrogen (N) fertilization and the identification of predictive biochemical markers of N utilization efficiency could contribute to limit the detrimental effect of the overuse of N inputs. OBJECTIVES: We integrated phenotypic and biochemical data to interpret the physiology of maize in response to a mild reduction in N fertilization under agronomic conditions and identify predictive leaf metabolic and proteic markers that could be used to pilot and rationalize N fertilization. METHODS: Eco-physiological, developmental and yield-related traits were measured and complemented with metabolomic and proteomic approaches performed on young leaves of a core panel of 29 European genetically diverse dent hybrids cultivated in the field under non-limiting and reduced N fertilization conditions. RESULTS: Metabolome and proteome data were analyzed either individually or in an integrated manner together with eco-physiological, developmental, phenotypic and yield-related traits. They allowed to identify (i) common N-responsive metabolites and proteins that could be used as predictive markers to monitor N fertilization, (ii) silage maize hybrids that exhibit improved agronomic performance when N fertilization is reduced. CONCLUSIONS: Among the N-responsive metabolites and proteins identified, a cytosolic NADP-dependent malic enzyme and four metabolite signatures stand out as promising markers that could be used for both breeding and agronomic purposes.
PXD053918	39520699	Processes independent of nonphotochemical quenching protect a high-light-tolerant desert alga from oxidative stress. 	Whole cell proteomic changes in high-light tolerant alga from the desert	Chlorella ohadii, Oxidative damage, tryptophan oxidation	Non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) mechanisms are crucial for protecting photosynthesis from photoinhibition in plants, algae, and cyanobacteria, and their modulation is a long-standing goal for improving photosynthesis and crop yields. The current work demonstrates that Chlorella ohadii, a green micro-alga that thrives in the desert under high light intensities that are fatal to many photosynthetic organisms does not perform nor require NPQ to protect photosynthesis under constant high light. Instead of dissipating excess energy, it minimizes its uptake by eliminating the photosynthetic antenna of photosystem II. In addition, it accumulates antioxidants that neutralize harmful reactive oxygen species (ROS) and increases cyclic electron flow around PSI. These NPQ-independent responses proved efficient in preventing ROS accumulation and reducing oxidative damage to proteins in high-light-grown cells.
PXD048067	39521858	Mevalonate pathway inhibition reduces bladder cancer metastasis by modulating RhoB protein stability and integrin beta1 localization. 	Mevalonate pathway inhibition affects bladder cancer metastasis	Mevalonate pathway,Bladder cancer,Simvastatin,Zoledronic acid, RhoB	The progression and outcome of bladder cancer (BLCA) are critically affected by the propensity of tumor metastasis. Our previous study revealed that activation of the mevalonate (MVA) pathway promoted migration of BLCA cells; however, the exact mechanism is unclear. Here we show that elevated expression of MVA pathway enzymes in BLCA cells, correlating with poorer patient prognosis by analyzing single-cell and bulk-transcriptomic datasets. Inhibition of the MVA pathway, either through knockdown of farnesyl diphosphate synthase (FDPS) or using inhibitors such as zoledronic acid or simvastatin, led to a marked reduction in BLCA cell migration. Notably, this effect was reversed by administering geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP), not farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) or cholesterol, indicating the specificity of geranylgeranylation for cell motility. Moreover, we found that RhoB, a Rho GTPase family member, was identified as a key effector of the impact of the MVA pathway on BLCA metastasis. The post-translational modification of RhoB by GGPP-mediated geranylgeranylation influenced its protein stability through the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Additionally, overexpression of RhoB was found to block the membrane translocation of integrin beta1 in BLCA cells. In summary, our findings underscore the role of the MVA pathway in BLCA metastasis, providing insights into potential therapeutic targets of this malignancy.
PXD053234	39521905	Protein phosphatase-1 regulates the binding of filamin C to FILIP1 in cultured skeletal muscle cells under mechanical stress. 	Human FLNc-S2233/S2236 phosphorylation after EPS treatment (PRM analysis)	C2 cells, Mechanical stress, PRM, Phosphoproteomics, Skyline, Targeted MS	The actin-binding protein filamin c (FLNc) is a key mediator in the response of skeletal muscle cells to mechanical stress. In addition to its function as a structural scaffold, FLNc acts as a signaling adaptor which is phosphorylated at S2234 in its mechanosensitive domain 20 (d20) through AKT. Here, we discovered a strong dephosphorylation of FLNc-pS2234 in cultured skeletal myotubes under acute mechanical stress, despite high AKT activity. We found that all three protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) isoforms are part of the FLNc d18-21 interactome. Enzymatic assays demonstrate that PP1 efficiently dephosphorylates FLNc-pS2234 and in vitro and in cells upon PP1 activation using specific modulators. FLNc-pS2234 dephosphorylation promotes the interaction with FILIP1, a mediator for filamin degradation. Altogether, we present a model in which dephosphorylation of FLNc d20 by the dominant action of PP1c prevails over AKT activity to promote the binding of the filamin degradation-inducing factor FILIP1 during acute mechanical stress.
PXD049227	39523439	The kinase NEK6 positively regulates LSD1 activity and accumulation in local chromatin sub-compartments. 	The kinase NEK6 positively regulates LSD1 activity and accumulation in local chromatin sub-compartments (CSCs)	phosphorylation	LSD1 plays a crucial role in mammalian biology, regulated through interactions with coregulators and post-translational modifications. Here we show that the kinase NEK6 stimulates LSD1 activity in cells and observe a strong colocalization of NEK6 and LSD1 at distinct chromatin sub-compartments (CSCs). We demonstrate that LSD1 is a substrate for NEK6 phosphorylation at the N-terminal intrinsically disordered region (IDR) of LSD1, which shows phase separation behavior in vitro and in cells. The LSD1-IDR is important for LSD1 activity and functions to co-compartmentalize NEK6, histone peptides and DNA. The subsequent phosphorylation of LSD1 by NEK6 supports the concentration of LSD1 at these distinct CSCs, which is imperative for dynamic control of transcription. This suggest that phase separation is crucial for the regulatory function of LSD1 and our findings highlight the role of NEK6 in modulating LSD1 activity and phase separation, expanding our understanding of LSD1 regulation and its implications in cellular processes.
PXD052432	39523852	Proteomic profiling of oral squamous cell carcinoma tissues altered-related proteins: implications for personalized therapy. 	Data-independent acquisition (DIA) based quantitative proteomic analysis of oral cancer tissue samples	DIA, DIA-NN, oral cancer	OBJECTIVES: Oral squamous cell carcinoma poses a substantial global health challenge marked by rising mortality rate. Recently, immunotherapy has shown promising results in cancer management by enhancing immune response. Thus, identifying additional immune-related markers is critical for advancing immunotherapy treatments. METHODS: Data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry approach was used to explore differentially expressed immune-related proteins in oral cancer tissues compared to adjacent non-cancerous tissues. Functional significance was identified through Gene Ontology, pathway, and network analysis. Gene expression of identified proteins was validated using transcriptomic data. RESULTS: DIA analysis identified 29,459 precursors corresponding to 3429 proteins. Among these, 1060 proteins were differentially expressed, with 166 being immune-related. Differentially regulated proteins were involved in innate immune response, mitochondrial ATP synthesis, and neutrophil degranulation. Pathway analysis of immune-related proteins showed perturbation in anti-tumor immunity-related pathways such as interferon signaling, TCR signaling, PD-1 signaling and antigen processing and presentation. Significance of these pathways was further reinforced by the strong interactions identified in the protein-protein interaction network analysis. Additionally, gene expression analysis showed similar mRNA expression patterns for key proteins involved in altered pathways, including ISG15, IFIT1/3, HLA-A/C and OAS2/3. CONCLUSIONS: Further validation of these proteins could establish them as potential targets for personalized therapy.
PXD060680	39523983	Comprehensive Proteomics Profiling Identifies Circulating Biomarkers to Distinguish Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy from Other Cardiomyopathies with Left Ventricular Hypertrophy. 	Comprehensive Plasma Proteomics Profiling of Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy	Affinity plasma proteomics, Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy	Background: Distinguishing hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) from other cardiomyopathies with left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), such as hypertensive LVH, transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy (ATTR-CM), and aortic stenosis (AS), is sometimes challenging. Using plasma proteomics profiling, we aimed to identify circulating biomarkers and dysregulated signaling pathways specific to HCM. Methods: In this multicenter case-control study, plasma proteomics profiling was performed in cases with HCM and controls with hypertensive LVH, ATTR-CM, and AS. Two-thirds of patients enrolled earlier in each disease group were defined as the training set, and the remaining one-third as the test set. Protein concentrations in HCM were compared with those in hypertensive LVH (comparison 1), ATTR-CM (comparison 2), and AS (comparison 3). Candidate proteins that meet the following 2 criteria were selected: (1) Higher abundance in HCM throughout all 3 comparisons or lower abundance in HCM throughout all 3 comparisons with univariable P<0.05 and |log2(fold change)| >0.5 in both the training and test sets and (2) Independently associated with HCM with multivariable P<0.05 after adjusting for clinical parameters significantly different between HCM and controls. Using the selected candidate proteins, a logistic regression model to distinguish HCM from controls was developed in the training set and applied to the test set. Finally, pathway analysis was performed in each comparison using proteins with different abundance. Results: Overall, 4,979 proteins in 1,415 patients (HCM, n=879; hypertensive LVH, n=331; ATTR-CM, n=169; AS, n=36) were analyzed. Of those, 5 proteins were selected as candidate proteins. The logistic regression model with these 5 proteins had an area under the receiver-operating-characteristic curve of 0.86 (95% CI 0.82-0.89) in the test set. The MAPK and HIF-1 pathways were dysregulated in HCM throughout the 3 comparisons. Conclusions: This study identified circulating biomarkers that distinguish HCM from other cardiomyopathies with LVH independently from confounders and revealed signaling pathways associated with HCM.
PXD048244	39524337	Systematic analysis of lysine lactylation in nucleus pulposus cells. 	Lactylation of nucleus pulposus cells	intervertebral disc degeneration, lactylation, nucleus pulposus cells	Nucleus pulposus (NP) resides in hypoxic microenvironment and NP cells (NPCs), primarily reply on glycolysis and producing high levels of lactate. Intracellular lactate drives lysine lactylation (Kla) as a newly epigenetic modification. However, the impact of Kla on NPCs remains unknown. Here, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) data suggested an altered balance between glycolysis and aerobic oxidation in intervertebral disc degeneration (IDD). Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis displayed 3510 lactylation sites on 1052 non-histone proteins of NPCs isolated from rat cultured in normoxia and hypoxia. Moreover, there are 18 proteins with 129 Kla sites and 117 Kla sites in 27 proteins exclusively detected in normoxia and hypoxia group, respectively. Bioinformatics analysis displayed that these lactylated proteins are tightly related to ribosome, spliceosome and the VEGFA-VEGFA2 signaling pathway. Together, our study reveals that Kla may play an important role in regulating cellular metabolism of NPCs.
PXD047031	39524354	SIRT3 differentially regulates lysine benzoylation from SIRT2 in mammalian cells. 	Exploring the mechanism of contact-dependent cell-cell communication on chemoresistance based on single-cell high-throughput drug screening platform	Contact-dependent Cell-cell Communication, High-throughput Drug Screening, Microfluidic Chip, Quantitative Proteomics, Tumor Single Cells	Lysine benzoylation (Kbz), a new type of protein post-translational modification (PTM) we discovered, has garnered significant attention. While we initially identified SIRT2 as a debenzoylase in mammalian cells, recent findings suggest its exclusivity may be questioned. However, other debenzoylases in mammalian cells remain underexplored. Here, our study reveals SIRT3 as an additional debenzoylase. Through quantitative analysis, we identified 1,075 Kbz sites in mammalian cells, with 44 specifically mediated by SIRT3 and 66 influenced by SIRT2. Notably, SIRT3 and SIRT2 regulate distinct Kbz substrates, indicating involvement in different cellular processes. Functional investigations demonstrated SIRT3's regulation of benzoylated protein peptidyl-prolyl cis-trans isomerase F (PPIF), where K73bz and K197bz markedly diminished interactions with the tumor suppressor p53. Additionally, K978bz on ATP-citrate lyase (ACLY) notably inhibited its enzymatic activity. This study not only identifies a debenzoylase and its Kbz substrates but also enhances our understanding of Kbz's biological functions.
PXD052027	39524752	Multi-omics analysis revealed significant metabolic changes in brain cancer cells treated with paclitaxel and/or topotecan. 	Multi-Omics Analysis Revealed Significant Metabolic Changes in Brain Cancer Cells Treated with Paclitaxel and/or Topotecan	Glioblastoma, Metabolomics	Glioblastoma (GBM) stands as the most common primary malignant brain tumor. Despite the best standard therapies, GBM survivors have a brief survival time, about 24 months on average. The treatment is troublesome because the cancer cells may not respond well to specific therapies as they grow within an extensive network of blood vessels. Our study aims to evaluate the impact of paclitaxel 5.3 mug/mL and topotecan 0.26 muM solely and in pairwise combination on the resultant metabolic and proteomic signatures of the U87 cell line while using the precise ultra-high-performance liquid chromatography quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UHPLC-Q-TOF) analytical technology. The U87 cells wear treated with DMSO, paclitaxel 5.3 muM, topotecan 0.26 muM, and their combinations. Using One-way ANOVA, we observed 14 significantly altered metabolites compared to those cells treated with DMSO. For combination treatment (paclitaxel and topotecan), 11 metabolites were significantly dysregulated. Sparse partial least squares-discriminant analysis (sPLS-DA) revealed minimal overlap, highlighting distinctions among the four groups. While for proteomics, a total of 79 proteins were significantly dysregulated among the groups. These findings can aid in identifying new biomarkers associated with the utilized drugs and creating a map for targeted therapy. EIF3F, GNB2L1, HINT2, and RPA3 were shown to be significantly upregulated in the combination group relative to the control. Moreover, ribosome, apoptosis, HIF-1 signaling, arginine and proline, glutathione, purine metabolism, apelin signaling pathway, and glycolysis were significantly altered in the combination group. Overall, this study underscores the effectiveness of multi-omics approaches in revealing the molecular mechanisms driving chemotherapy responses in cancer cells. Additionally, this work generates a comprehensive list of molecular alterations that can serve as a foundation for further investigations and inform personalized healthcare strategies to enhance patient outcomes.
PXD026590	39524934	Stress resilience is an active and multifactorial process manifested by structural, functional, and molecular changes in synapses. 	Molecular mechanism of resilience in stress-related disorders	cus model, depression	Stress resilience is the ability of neuronal networks to maintain their function despite the stress exposure. Using a mouse model we investigate stress resilience phenomenon. To assess the resilient and anhedonic behavioral phenotypes developed after the induction of chronic unpredictable stress, we quantitatively characterized the structural and functional plasticity of excitatory synapses in the hippocampus using a combination of proteomic, electrophysiological, and imaging methods. Our results indicate that stress resilience is an active and multifactorial process manifested by structural, functional, and molecular changes in synapses. We reveal that chronic stress influences palmitoylation of synaptic proteins, whose profiles differ between resilient and anhedonic animals. The changes in palmitoylation are predominantly related with the glutamate receptor signaling thus affects synaptic transmission and associated structures of dendritic spines. We show that stress resilience is associated with structural compensatory plasticity of the postsynaptic parts of synapses in CA1 subregion of the hippocampus.
PXD022921	39526456	Global impacts of peroxisome and pexophagy dysfunction revealed through multi-omics analyses of lon2 and atg2 mutants. 	Control of protein accumulation by the LON2 peroxisomal protease and autophagy	chaperone, peroxisomes, pexophagy, protease	Peroxisomes house diverse metabolic pathways that are essential for plant and animal survival, including enzymes that produce or inactivate toxic byproducts. Despite the importance of peroxisomes and their collaborations with other organelles, the mechanisms that trigger or prevent peroxisome turnover and the cellular impacts of impaired peroxisomes are incompletely understood. When Arabidopsis thaliana LON2, a peroxisomal protein with chaperone and protease capacity, is disrupted, metabolic dysfunction and protein instability in peroxisomes ensue. Paradoxically, preventing autophagy in lon2 mutants appears to normalize peroxisomal metabolism and stabilize peroxisomal proteins-hinting at a role for autophagy in causing the peroxisomal defects observed in lon2 seedlings. Using a combination of transcriptomics, proteomics, and in silico investigations, we compared wild type to lon2 and autophagy null mutants and double mutants. Through this analysis, we found that impeding autophagy via an atg2 null mutation alleviated several of the global defects observed when LON2 is absent. Moreover, we revealed processes influenced by LON2 that are independent of autophagy, including impacts on lipid droplet and chloroplast protein levels. Finally, we identified and classified potential LON2 substrates, which include proteins that might provide signal(s) for pexophagy.
PXD053138	39526730	Large-scale characterization of drug mechanism of action using proteome-wide thermal shift assays. 	Large-scale characterization of drug mechanism of action using proteome-wide thermal shift assays - Revisions	Drug Discovery, Thermal shift assay	In response to an ever-increasing demand of new small molecules therapeutics, numerous chemical and genetic tools have been developed to interrogate compound mechanism of action. Owing to its ability to approximate compound-dependent changes in thermal stability, the proteome-wide thermal shift assay has emerged as a powerful tool in this arsenal. The most recent iterations have drastically improved the overall efficiency of these assays, providing an opportunity to screen compounds at a previously unprecedented rate. Taking advantage of this advance, we quantified more than one million thermal stability measurements in response to multiple classes of therapeutic and tool compounds (96 compounds in living cells and 70 compounds in lysates). When interrogating the dataset as a whole, approximately 80% of compounds (with quantifiable targets) caused a significant change in the thermal stability of an annotated target. There was also a wealth of evidence portending off-target engagement despite the extensive use of the compounds in the laboratory and/or clinic. Finally, the combined application of cell- and lysate-based assays, aided in the classification of primary (direct ligand binding) and secondary (indirect) changes in thermal stability. Overall, this study highlights the value of these assays in the drug development process by affording an unbiased and reliable assessment of compound mechanism of action.
PXD048807	39528459	A cyclic peptide toolkit reveals mechanistic principles of peptidylarginine deiminase IV regulation. 	A cyclic peptide toolkit reveals mechanistic principles of peptidylarginine deiminase IV (PADI4) regulation	PADI4, cyclic-peptide, deiminase, modulator	Peptidylarginine deiminase IV (PADI4, PAD4) deregulation promotes the development of autoimmunity, cancer, atherosclerosis and age-related tissue fibrosis. PADI4 additionally mediates immune responses and cellular reprogramming, although the full extent of its physiological roles is unexplored. Despite detailed molecular knowledge of PADI4 activation in vitro, we lack understanding of its regulation within cells, largely due to a lack of appropriate systems and tools. Here, we develop and apply a set of potent and selective PADI4 modulators. Using the mRNA-display-based RaPID system, we screen >10(12) cyclic peptides for high-affinity, conformation-selective binders. We report PADI4_3, a cell-active inhibitor specific for the active conformation of PADI4; PADI4_7, an inert binder, which we functionalise for the isolation and study of cellular PADI4; and PADI4_11, a cell-active PADI4 activator. Structural studies with PADI4_11 reveal an allosteric binding mode that may reflect the mechanism that promotes cellular PADI4 activation. This work contributes to our understanding of PADI4 regulation and provides a toolkit for the study and modulation of PADI4 across (patho)physiological contexts.
PXD057203	39528709	N-terminal cleavage of cyclophilin D boosts its ability to bind F-ATP synthase. 	Identification of mitochondrial Cyclophilins	CyPD, Murine, mitochondria, ppif	Cyclophilin (CyP) D is a regulator of the mitochondrial F-ATP synthase. Here we report the discovery of a form of CyPD lacking the first 10 (mouse) or 13 (human) N-terminal residues (DeltaN-CyPD), a protein region with species-specific features. NMR studies on recombinant human full-length CyPD (FL-CyPD) and DeltaN-CyPD form revealed that the N-terminus is highly flexible, in contrast with the rigid globular part. We have studied the interactions of FL and DeltaN-CyPD with F-ATP synthase at the OSCP subunit, a site where CyPD binding inhibits catalysis and favors the transition of the enzyme complex to the permeability transition pore. At variance from FL-CyPD, DeltaN-CyPD binds OSCP in saline media, indicating that the N-terminus substantially decreases the binding affinity for OSCP. We also provide evidence that calpain 1 is responsible for generation of DeltaN-CyPD in cells. Altogether, our work suggests the existence of a novel mechanism of modulation of CyPD through cleavage of its N-terminus that may have significant pathophysiological implications.
PXD050340	39530218	Transfer RNA supplementation rescues HARS deficiency in a humanized yeast model of Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease. 	Transfer  RNA supplementation rescues HARS deficiency in a  humanized yeast model of Charcot-Marie-Tooth Disease	Charcot-MArie-Tooth Disease, Mistranslation	Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases are indispensable enzymes in all cells, ensuring the correct pairing of amino acids to their cognate tRNAs to maintain translation fidelity. Autosomal dominant mutations V133F and Y330C in histidyl-tRNA synthetase (HARS) cause the genetic disorder Charcot-Marie-Tooth type 2W (CMT2W). Treatments are currently restricted to symptom relief, with no therapeutic available that targets the cause of disease. We previously found that histidine supplementation alleviated phenotypic defects in a humanized yeast model of CMT2W caused by HARS V155G and S356N that also unexpectedly exacerbated the phenotype of the two HARS mutants V133F and Y330C. Here, we show that V133F destabilizes recombinant HARS protein, which is rescued in the presence of tRNAHis. HARS V133F and Y330C cause mistranslation and cause changes to the proteome without activating the integrated stress response as validated by mass spectrometry and growth defects that persist with histidine supplementation. The growth defects and reduced translation fidelity caused by V133F and Y330C mutants were rescued by supplementation with human tRNAHis in a humanized yeast model. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of cognate tRNA as a therapeutic that rescues HARS deficiency and ameliorates toxic mistranslation generated by causative alleles for CMT.
PXD057395	39531199	A Phosphotriester-Masked Dideoxy-cGAMP Derivative as a Cell-Permeable STING Agonist. 	A Phosphotriester-Masked Dideoxy-cGAMP Derivative as a Cell-Permeable STING Agonist	Interferone, STING, cGAMP	2'3'-cyclic GMP-AMP (cGAMP) is a cyclic dinucleotide second messenger in which guanosine and adenosine are connected by one 3'-5' and one 2'-5' phosphodiester linkage. It is formed in the cytosol upon detection of pathogenic DNA by the enzyme guanosine-monophosphate-adenosine monophosphate synthase (cGAS). cGAMP subsequently binds to the adaptor protein stimulator of interferon genes (STING) to elicit an innate immune response leading to the production of type I interferons and cytokines. STING agonists are a highly promising avenue for an immuno-oncological anticancer therapy. A particular challenge with cyclic dinucleotide STING agonists are the two negative charges of the phosphodiester linkages, which strongly reduce the ability of such compounds to penetrate cell membranes. The development of cell-permeable STING agonists that can stimulate the immune system, enhancing their anticancer potency is currently of utmost importance in the field. Here, we report the development of a dideoxy derivative of cGAMP as a phosphotriester prodrug, where the negative charge of the phosphate backbone has been masked with a thioester. We found that this thioester-protected compound features a dramatic increase in its cellular potency that rises from EC50 = 5 mM to 25 nM. The new compound is envisioned to enable an efficient STING-agonist-based anticancer therapy.
PXD056885	39532207	Gut commensal bacteria Parabacteroides goldsteinii-derived outer membrane vesicles suppress skin inflammation in psoriasis. 	Gut commensal bacteria Parabacteroides goldsteinii JCM 13446 derived-outer membrane vesicles suppress skin inflammation in psoriasis	Parabacteroides goldsteinii, outer membrane vesicles, protein composition	Despite gut microbiota-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) serving as pivotal mediators in bacteria-host cell interactions, their potential role in modulating skin inflammation remains poorly understood. Here, we developed strategies for mass production of Parabacteroides goldsteinii derived outer membrane vesicles (OMVs), commonly known as EVs. We found that orally administered Pg OMVs can reach the colon, traverse the intestinal barrier, and circulate to the inflamed skin of psoriasis-like mice, resulting in reduced epidermal hyperplasia, suppressed infiltration of inflammatory cells in the skin lesions, and effective amelioration of both skin and systemic inflammation. Additionally, subcutaneous injection of thermosensitive PF-127 hydrogel loaded with Pg OMVs exerts similar immunomodulatory effects, allowing sustained release of Pg OMVs into skin cells, effectively suppressing skin inflammation and ameliorating symptoms of psoriasis. This study unveils the importance of gut microbiota-derived OMVs, which can target inflamed skin via both the gut-skin axis and local skin administration, providing a promising alternative to live bacteria therapy for the treatment of skin inflammatory diseases.
PXD054477	39532778	Regulatory Role of eIF2alphaK4 in Amino Acid Transporter Expression in Mouse Brain Capillary Endothelial Cells. 	MBEC4 cells with low-Arginine conditions	DIA, amino acid, brain microvascular endothelial cells	PURPOSE: Amino acid transporters are expressed in the brain capillary endothelial cells that form the blood-brain barrier (BBB), and their expression levels change during the neonatal period. This study aimed to investigate the molecular mechanisms regulating amino acid transporter levels in mouse brain capillary endothelial cells. METHODS: Capillaries were isolated from the brains of neonatal and adult mice. Activation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2alpha kinase 4 (eIF2alphaK4) was analyzed in MBEC4 (mouse brain capillary endothelial) cells under amino acid-depleted conditions. Protein expression was determined using western blotting and proteomic analyses. RESULTS: Phosphorylation of eIF2alpha, a downstream target of eIF2alphaK4, was induced in the brain capillaries of neonates compared to adults. In vitro experiments using MBEC4 cells revealed that amino acid depletion induced eIF2alpha phosphorylation and expression of the amino acid transporter, solute carrier (Slc)-7a1. The eIF2alphaK4 inhibitor, GCN2iB, inhibited these inductions. Proteomic analysis revealed arginine depletion-dependent induction of amino acid transporters Slc1a4, Slc3a2, Slc7a1, Slc7a5, and Slc38a1. These effects were also inhibited by GCN2iB, suggesting the involvement of eIF2alphaK4 activation. In contrast, the expression of Slc2a1, Slc16a1, Abcb1b, Abcg2, transferrin receptor, insulin receptor, claudin-1, ZO-1, and Jam1 was not suppressed by the GCN2iB treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the eIF2alphaK4 pathway plays a regulatory role in amino acid transporter expression in brain capillary endothelial cells and facilitates the maintenance of amino acid homeostasis in the brain. This study provides new insights into the regulatory mechanisms underlying nutrient transport across the BBB.
PXD041821	39532843	Nuclear localization of MTHFD2 is required for correct mitosis progression. 	Nuclear MTHFD2 secures centromere methylation, chromosome stability and correct mitosis progression	Folate metabolism, cell cycle, centromere, methylation, mitosis	Subcellular compartmentalization of metabolic enzymes establishes a unique metabolic environment that elicits specific cellular functions. Indeed, the nuclear translocation of certain metabolic enzymes is required for epigenetic regulation and gene expression control. Here, we show that the nuclear localization of the mitochondrial enzyme methylenetetrahydrofolate dehydrogenase 2 (MTHFD2) ensures mitosis progression. Nuclear MTHFD2 interacts with proteins involved in mitosis regulation and centromere stability, including the methyltransferases KMT5A and DNMT3B. Loss of MTHFD2 induces severe methylation defects and impedes correct mitosis completion. MTHFD2 deficient cells display chromosome congression and segregation defects and accumulate chromosomal aberrations. Blocking the catalytic nuclear function of MTHFD2 recapitulates the phenotype observed in MTHFD2 deficient cells, whereas restricting MTHFD2 to the nucleus is sufficient to ensure correct mitotic progression. Our discovery uncovers a nuclear role for MTHFD2, supporting the notion that translocation of metabolic enzymes to the nucleus is required to meet precise chromatin needs.
PXD057312	39532862	Structural basis of MICAL autoinhibition. 	Structural basis of MICAL autoinhibition	F-actin depolymerization, MICAL, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), Rab, actin, autoinhibition	MICAL proteins play a crucial role in cellular dynamics by binding and disassembling actin filaments, impacting processes like axon guidance, cytokinesis, and cell morphology. Their cellular activity is tightly controlled, as dysregulation can lead to detrimental effects on cellular morphology. Although previous studies have suggested that MICALs are autoinhibited, and require Rab proteins to become active, the detailed molecular mechanisms remained unclear. Here, we report the cryo-EM structure of human MICAL1 at a nominal resolution of 3.1 Aa. Structural analyses, alongside biochemical and functional studies, show that MICAL1 autoinhibition is mediated by an intramolecular interaction between its N-terminal catalytic and C-terminal coiled-coil domains, blocking F-actin interaction. Moreover, we demonstrate that allosteric changes in the coiled-coil domain and the binding of the tripartite assembly of CH-L2alpha1-LIM domains to the coiled-coil domain are crucial for MICAL activation and autoinhibition. These mechanisms appear to be evolutionarily conserved, suggesting a potential universality across the MICAL family.
PXD054476	39533064	Antithrombotic coating with sheltered positive charges prevents contact activation by controlling factor XII-biointerface binding. 	Antithrombotic coating with sheltered positive charges prevents contact activation by controlling Factor XII-biointerface binding	Coagulation FXII, antithrombotic coating, surface-protein interaction	Antithrombotic surfaces that prevent coagulation activation without interfering with haemostasis are required for blood-contacting devices. Such materials would restrain device-induced thrombogenesis and decrease the need for anticoagulant use, thereby reducing unwanted bleeding. Here, by optimizing the interactions with coagulation factor XII rather than preventing its surface adsorption, we develop a substrate-independent antithrombotic polymeric coating with sheltered positive charges. The antithrombic properties of the coating were demonstrated in vitro with human blood and in vivo using a carotid artery-jugular vein shunt model in rabbits. The coating exhibits a strong interaction with factor XII, but results in a low reciprocal activation of the contact pathway that triggers clot formation. These findings contradict the prevailing strategy of designing antithrombotic materials through protein-repelling surfaces. Overall, the polymeric coating we describe can benefit most blood-contacting devices and is a useful engineering guideline for designing surfaces with improved antithrombotic properties.
PXD050051	39533309	Lactylation of Hdac1 regulated by Ldh prevents the pluripotent-to-2C state conversion. 	Lactylation of Hdac1 regulated by Ldh prevents the pluripotent-to-2C state conversion	Embryonic stem cells, Lactylation	BACKGROUND: Cellular metabolism regulates the pluripotency of embryonic stem cells (ESCs). Yet, how metabolism regulates the transition among different pluripotent states remains elusive. It has been shown that protein lactylation, which uses lactate, a metabolic product of glycolysis, as a substrate, plays a critical role in various biological events. Here we focused on that glycolysis regulates the conversion between ESCs and 2-cell-like cells (2CLCs) through protein lactylation. METHODS: RNA-seq revealed the activation of 2-cell (2C) genes by suppression of Ldh. Stable isotope labeling by amino acids in cell culture (SILAC) coupled with lactylated peptide enrichment and quantitative mass spectrometric analysis was carried out to investigate the mechanism how protein lactylation regulates the pluripotent-to-2C transition. And we focused on Hdac1. Lactylation of Hdac1 required for silencing 2C genes was proved by quantitative reverse-transcription PCR (qRT-PCR), immunofluorescence (IF), Western blot and chimeric embryos. Chromatin immunoprecipitation coupled with sequencing (ChIP-seq) and in vitro deacetylation assay confirmed lactylation of Hdac1 promoting its binding at 2C genes and enhancing its deacetylase activity, thereby facilitating the removal of H3K27ac and the silencing of 2C genes. RESULTS: We found that inhibition or depletion of Ldha, the enzyme converting pyruvate to lactate, leads to the activation of 2C genes, as well as reduced global lactylation in ESCs. To investigate the mechanism how protein lactylation regulates the pluripotent-to-2C transition, quantitative lactylome analysis was performed, and 1716 lactylated proteins were identified. We then focused on Hdac1, a histone deacetylase involved in the silencing of 2C genes. Lactylation of Hdac1 promotes its binding at 2C genes and enhances its deacetylase activity, thus facilitating the removal of H3K27ac and the silencing of 2C genes. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, our study reveals a mechanistic link between cellular metabolism and pluripotency regulation through protein lactylation. Our research is the first time to reveal that quantitative lactylome analysis in mouse ESCs. We found that lactylated Hdac1 promotes its binding at 2C genes and enhances its deacetylase activity, thus facilitating the removal of H3K27ac and the silencing of 2C genes.
PXD053293	39533701	Distinct O-Acetylation Patterns of Serum Glycoproteins among Humans, Mice, and Rats. 	The analysis of site-specific O-acetylated N-glycans in human, rat, and mouse sera.	N-glycopeptide, O-acetylation, serum, site-specific	O-Acetylation is a significant chemical modification of sialic acids on glycoproteins with diverse biological functions. As two important animal models, mice and rats have been widely used for various biomedical studies. In this study, we show that the sialic acid types and their O-acetylation patterns have large differences among serum glycoproteins of humans, rats, and mice. Based on intact N-glycopeptide analyses, all sialoglycopeptides in human sera were modified by Neu5Ac without any O-acetylation; 90% of sialoglycopeptides in rat sera were also modified by Neu5Ac, with more than 60% that were further O-acetylated. In contrast, 99% of sialoglycopeptides in mouse sera contained Neu5Gc including 12% in O-acetylated forms. Among all O-acetylated N-glycans, rat sera had hybrid glycans fivefold those of mouse sera, while mouse sera contained 5.5-fold core-fucosylated glycans and 4.6-31.5-fold mono-/penta-/hexa-antenna glycans compared to mice. The overall O-acetylation proportions of serum glycoproteins in rats were much higher than those in mice, and diverse O-acetylation proportions also commonly existed at different glycosites of the same glycoproteins. This study enhances our understanding of O-acetylated sialoglycan diversities and underscores the necessity of considering glycosylation profiles when selecting suitable animal models for various biomedical studies.
PXD043270	39534638	SIRT1 Ameliorates Lamin A/C Deficiency-Induced Cardiac Dysfunction by Promoting Mitochondrial Bioenergetics. 	Proteomics reveals mitochondrial dysfunction in Lmna-/- mice hearts	Lmna, mitochondrial dysfunction	Dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) is associated with high mortality despite advanced therapies. The LMNA gene encodes lamin A/C and is the second most frequently mutated gene associated with DCM, for which therapeutic options are limited. Here we generated Lmna (-/-) mice and found they exhibited cardiac dysfunction at the age of 1 month but not at 2 weeks. Proteomics showed down-regulation of mitochondrial function-related pathways in Lmna (-/-) hearts. Moreover, early injured mitochondria with decreased cristae density and sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) down-regulation were observed in 2-week-old Lmna (-/-) hearts. Adenoviral overexpression of SIRT1 in lamin A/C knockdown neonatal rat ventricular myocytes improved mitochondrial oxidative respiration capacity. Adeno-associated virus-mediated SIRT1 overexpression alleviated mitochondrial injury, cardiac systolic dysfunction, ventricular dilation, and fibrosis, and prolonged lifespan in Lmna (-/-) mice. Mechanistically, LMNA maintains mitochondrial bioenergetics through the SIRT1-PARKIN axis. Our results suggest that targeting the SIRT1 signaling pathway is expected to be a novel therapeutic strategy for LMNA mutation-associated DCM.
PXD055041	39534858	Cry1Ac toxin binding in the velvetbean caterpillar Anticarsia gemmatalis: study of midgut aminopeptidases N. 	Cry1Ac Toxin Binding in the Velvetbean Caterpillar Anticarsia gemmatalis: Study of Midgut Aminopeptidases N	Aminopeptidase N, Anticarsia gemmatalis, Bacillus thuringiensis, Cry Toxin, Receptor	The velvetbean caterpillar Anticarsia gemmatalis is one of the main soybean defoliators in Brazil. Currently, the main biopesticide used to control insect pests worldwide is the bacteria Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), which produces entomopathogenic Crystal toxins (Cry) that act in the midgut of susceptible insects, leading them to death. The mode of action of Cry toxins in the midgut involves binding to specific receptors present on the brush border of epithelial cells such as aminopeptidase N (APN), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), cadherin, and others. Mutations in these receptors, among other factors, may be involved in the development of resistance; identification of functional Cry receptors in the midgut of A. gemmatalis is crucial to develop effective strategies to overcome this possible scenario. This study's goal is to characterize APNs of A. gemmatalis and identify a receptor for Cry1Ac in the midgut. The interaction of Bt spores with the midgut epithelium was observed in situ by immunohistochemistry and total aminopeptidase activity was estimated in brush border membrane vesicle (BBMV) samples, presenting higher activity in challenged individuals than in control ones. Ten APN sequences were found in a A. gemmatalis' transcriptome and subjected to different in silico analysis, such as phylogenetic tree, multiple sequence alignment and identification of signal peptide, activity domains and GPI-anchor signal. BBMV proteins from 5th instar larvae were submitted to a ligand blotting using activated Cry1Ac toxin and a commercial anti-Cry polyclonal antibody; corresponding bands of proteins that showed binding to Cry toxin were excised from the SDS-PAGE gel and subjected to mass spectrometry analysis, which resulted in the identification of seven of those APNs. Quantitative PCR was realized to compare expression levels between individuals subjected to sublethal infection with Bt spores and control ones, presenting up- and downregulations upon Bt infection. From these results, we can infer that aminopeptidases N in A. gemmatalis could be involved in the mode of action of Cry toxins in its larval stage.
PXD057237	39536082	REGgamma is essential to maintain bone homeostasis by degrading TRAF6, preventing osteoporosis. 	REGgamma is essential to maintain bone homeostasis by degrading  TRAF6, preventing osteoporosis	NIP30, REGgamma, TRAF6, osteoporosis, ubiquitin-independent degradation	Primary osteoporosis, manifesting as decreased bone mass and increased bone fragility, is a "silent disease" that is often ignored until a bone breaks. Accordingly, it is urgent to develop reliable biomarkers and novel therapeutic strategies for osteoporosis treatment. Here, we identified REGgamma as a potential biomarker of osteoporotic populations through proteomics analysis. Next, we demonstrated that REGgamma deficiency increased osteoclast activity and triggered bone mass loss in REGgamma knockout (KO) and bone marrow-derive macrophage (BMM)-conditional REGgamma KO mice. However, the osteoclast activity decreased in BMM-conditional REGgamma overexpression mice. Mechanistically, we defined that REGgamma-20S proteasome directly degraded TRAF6 to inhibit bone absorption in a ubiquitin-independent pathway. More importantly, BMM-conditional Traf6 KO with REGgamma KO mice could "rescue" the osteoporosis phenotypes. Based on NIP30 (a REGgamma "inhibitor") dephosphorylation by CKII inhibition activated the ubiquitin-independent degradation of TRAF6, we selected TTP22, an inhibitor of CKII, and defined that TTP22 could alleviate osteoporosis in vitro and in vivo. Overall, our study reveals a unique function of NIP30/REGgamma/TRAF6 axis in osteoporosis and provides a potential therapeutic drug TTP22 for osteoporosis.
PXD052217	39536083	Parallel phosphoproteomics and metabolomics map the global metabolic tyrosine phosphoproteome. 	Parallel phosphoproteomics and metabolomics map the global metabolic tyrosine phosphoproteome	EGF signaling, Metabolomics, Phosphoprotoemics, Tyrosine Phosphorylation	Tyrosine phosphorylation of metabolic enzymes is an evolutionarily conserved posttranslational modification that facilitates rapid and reversible modulation of enzyme activity, localization, or function. Despite the high abundance of tyrosine phosphorylation events detected on metabolic enzymes in high-throughput mass spectrometry-based studies, functional characterization of tyrosine phosphorylation sites has been limited to a subset of enzymes. Since tyrosine phosphorylation is dysregulated across human diseases, including cancer, understanding the consequences of metabolic enzyme tyrosine phosphorylation events is critical for informing disease biology and therapeutic interventions. To globally identify metabolic enzyme tyrosine phosphorylation events and simultaneously assign functional significance to these sites, we performed parallel phosphoproteomics and polar metabolomics in nontumorigenic mammary epithelial cells (MCF10A) stimulated with epidermal growth factor (EGF) in the absence or presence of the EGF receptor inhibitor erlotinib. We performed an integrated analysis of the phosphoproteomic and metabolomic datasets to identify tyrosine phosphorylation sites on metabolic enzymes with functional consequences. We identified two previously characterized (pyruvate kinase muscle isozyme, phosphoglycerate mutase 1) and two uncharacterized (glutathione S-transferase Pi 1, glutamate dehydrogenase 1) tyrosine phosphorylation sites on metabolic enzymes with purported functions based on metabolomic analyses. We validated these hits using a doxycycline-inducible CRISPR interference system in MCF10A cells, in which target metabolic enzymes were depleted with simultaneous reexpression of wild-type, phosphomutant, or phosphomimetic isoforms. Together, these data provide a framework for identification, prioritization, and characterization of tyrosine phosphorylation sites on metabolic enzymes with functional significance.
PXD052416	39536954	Gradient-Elution Nanoflow Liquid Chromatography without a Binary Pump: Smoothed Step Gradients Enable Reproducible, Sensitive, and Low-Cost Separations for Single-Cell Proteomics. 	Chromatography without a Binary Pump: Smoothed Step Gradients Enable Reproducible, Sensitive, and Low-Cost Nanoflow Separations	Gradient Formation, Liquid Chromatography, Single-Cell proteomics	Mass spectrometry-based proteome profiling of trace analytes including single cells benefits from liquid chromatography separations operated at low flow rates (e.g., <50 nL/min). However, high-pressure binary pumps needed to achieve such flow rates are not commercially available, and instead require splitting of the gradient flow to achieve low-nanoliter-per-minute flow rates. Gradient flow splitting can waste solvent and lead to flow inconsistencies. To address this, we have developed a method for creating gradients by combining plugs of mobile phase of increasing solvent strength together in a column, and then relying on Taylor dispersion to form the desired smooth gradient profile. Additionally, our method dramatically reduces costs, as only a single isocratic high-pressure pump is required. Following development of gradient profiles for both 10- and 20-min active gradients, we measured 200 pg injections of HeLa digest using a timsTOF mass spectrometer. Finally, we investigated differences in protein expression between single cells originating from two different colonies of ATG-knockout HeLa cells. Thousands of proteins were quantified, and a potential mechanism explaining differential immune responses of these two colonies upon exposure to viral DNA treatment was determined.
PXD056243	39536955	In-depth analysis of miRNA binding sites reveals the complex response of uterine epithelium to miR-26a-5p and miR-125b-5p during early pregnancy. 	In-depth analysis of miRNA binding sites reveals the complex response of uterine epithelium to miR-26a-5p and miR-125b-5p during early pregnancy	de novo protein synthesis, miRNA-mRNA interactions, pregnancy, pulsed SILAC, uterine luminal epithelium	Post-transcriptional regulation of gene expression by miRNAs likely makes significant contributions to mRNA abundance at the embryo-maternal interface. In this study, we investigated how miR-26a-5p and miR-125b-5p contribute to molecular changes occurring in the uterine luminal epithelium, which serves as the first site of signal exchange between the mother and developing embryo. To measure de novo protein synthesis after miRNA delivery to primary uterine luminal epithelial cells, we employed pulsed stable isotope labeling by amino acids (pSILAC). We found that both miRNAs alter the proteome of luminal epithelial cells, impacting numerous cellular functions, immune responses, as well as intracellular and second messenger signaling pathways. Additionally, we identified several features of miRNA-mRNA interactions that may influence the targeting efficiency of miR-26a-5p and miR-125b-5p. Overall, our study suggests a complex interaction of miR-26a-5p and miR-125b-5p with their respective targets. However, both appear to cooperatively function in modulating the cellular environment of the luminal epithelium, facilitating the morphological and molecular changes that occur during the intensive communication between the embryo and uterus at pregnancy.
PXD056642	39537621	Architecture of the spinach plastid-encoded RNA polymerase. 	Composition identification of spinach PEP complex	plastid-encoded polymerase	The plastid-encoded RNA polymerase serves as the principal transcription machinery within chloroplasts, transcribing over 80% of all primary plastid transcripts. This polymerase consists of a prokaryotic-like core enzyme known as the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase core, and is supplemented by newly evolved associated proteins known as PAPs. However, the architecture of the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase and the possible functions of PAPs remain unknown. Here, we present the cryo-electron microscopy structure of a 19-subunit plastid-encoded RNA polymerase complex derived from spinach (Spinacia oleracea). The structure shows that the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase core resembles bacterial RNA polymerase. Twelve PAPs and two additional proteins (FLN2 and pTAC18) bind at the periphery of the plastid-encoded RNA polymerase core, forming extensive interactions that may facilitate complex assembly and stability. PAPs may also protect the complex against oxidative damage and has potential functions in transcriptional regulation. This research offers a structural basis for future investigations into the functions and regulatory mechanisms governing the transcription of plastid genes.
PXD048644	39537929	Clinical functional proteomics of intercellular signalling in pancreatic cancer. 	Multidimensional proteomic landscape of intercellular signaling in pancreatic cancer	DDA, Glycoproteomics, PRM, Pancreatic cancer, Phosphoproteomics, Spatial proteomics, shedding	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has an atypical, highly stromal tumour microenvironment (TME) that profoundly contributes to its poor prognosis(1). Here, to better understand the intercellular signalling between cancer and stromal cells directly in PDAC tumours, we developed a multidimensional proteomic strategy called TMEPro. We applied TMEPro to profile the glycosylated secreted and plasma membrane proteome of 100 human pancreatic tissue samples to a great depth, define cell type origins and identify potential paracrine cross-talk, especially that mediated through tyrosine phosphorylation. Temporal dynamics during pancreatic tumour progression were investigated in a genetically engineered PDAC mouse model. Functionally, we revealed reciprocal signalling between stromal cells and cancer cells mediated by the stromal PDGFR-PTPN11-FOS signalling axis. Furthermore, we examined the generic shedding mechanism of plasma membrane proteins in PDAC tumours and revealed that matrix-metalloprotease-mediated shedding of the AXL receptor tyrosine kinase ectodomain provides an additional dimension of intercellular signalling regulation in the PDAC TME. Importantly, the level of shed AXL has a potential correlation with lymph node metastasis, and inhibition of AXL shedding and its kinase activity showed a substantial synergistic effect in inhibiting cancer cell growth. In summary, we provide TMEPro, a generically applicable clinical functional proteomic strategy, and a comprehensive resource for better understanding the PDAC TME and facilitating the discovery of new diagnostic and therapeutic targets.
PXD052291	39537956	Apoptosis-induced exosomes from human exfoliated deciduous teeth enhance angiogenesis in human umbilical vein endothelial cells. 	Exosome from apoptotic dental stem cells	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Stems Cells (B/D-HPP), apoptosis, dental stem cells, exosomes	Exosomes derived from the stem cells of human exfoliated deciduous teeth (SHED) hold promise for tissue regeneration. Apoptotic cells release a variety of extracellular vesicles that affect intercellular communication. This study aimed to investigate the angiogenic effects of SHED-derived exosomes modified via apoptosis induction on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs). Apoptosis was induced in SHED via serum starvation for 3 weeks and confirmed by the upregulation of the apoptotic genes, caspase 3 and 9, and via annexin V staining. The apoptotic SHED-derived exosomes were isolated, characterized, and subjected to proteomic analysis. In vitro experiments were performed to assess the effects of apoptotic SHED exosomes on the proliferation, migration, and tube formation of HUVECs. The apoptosis-induced SHED showed increased cell viability and decreased numbers of dead cells compared with those of conventional cultures while retaining their identity as mesenchymal stem cells positive for CD44, CD73, and CD90. The apoptotic SHED-derived exosomes exhibited characteristic features, such as standard size, cup-shaped morphology, and positive staining, for exosomal markers CD9, CD63, and CD81. Proteins associated with apoptosis, programmed cell death, and cellular senescence were downregulated in the apoptotic SHED exosomes, whereas those associated with extracellular matrix organization were upregulated, indicating positive angiogenesis. HUVECs treated with apoptotic SHED exosomes exhibited significantly enhanced proliferation and migration compared with those treated with normal SHED exosomes. The mesh-like structures in the apoptotic SHED exosomes exhibited significantly increased signs of angiogenesis. The findings of this study provide new insights into the potential use of apoptotic SHED-derived exosomes in regenerative medicine.
PXD056067	39540352	Semiquantitative analysis of protein expression in heated rat lens using shotgun proteomics. 	Protein expression in heated rat lens using shotgun proteomics	cataract, lens, protein, shotgun proteomics, temperature	Previous studies have reported that a strong correlation between the estimated cumulative thermal exposure in the crystalline lens and the incidence of nuclear cataracts; however, the precise relationship between temperature and cataracts remains to be fully elucidated. In the present study, the shotgun liquid chromatography/mass spectroscopy-based global proteomic approach was applied to investigate cataract-inducing factors in lens cultured at normal (35.0(o)C) and slightly warmer (37.5(o)C) conditions. In the rat lens, 190 proteins (total) were identified. Of these, 48 proteins (25.3%) were found in lenses cultured at both 35.0(o)C and 37.5(o)C. Moreover, 85 proteins (44.7%) were unique to lenses cultured at 35.0(o)C, while 57 proteins (30.0%) were unique to lenses cultured at 37.5(o)C. Protein expression changes in rat lenses cultured at 37.5(o)C were examined using a label-free semiquantitative approach that uses spectral counting and Gene Ontology analysis. Filensin and vimentin protein expression, key factors in maintaining lens structure, were decreased. These findings may serve as a valuable indicator for elucidating the relationship between temperature and the onset of nuclear cataracts.
PXD053608	39540374	PLEKHA4 upregulation regulates KIRC cell proliferation through beta-catenin signaling. 	PLEKHA4 knockdown induces apoptosis in melanoma cells through the MAPK and cMyc signaling pathways	MAPK, PLEKHA4, apoptosis, cMyc	In the present study, pleckstrin homology domain-containing family A member 4 (PLEKHA4) was identified as being upregulated in renal cell carcinoma, particularly within the kidney renal clear cell carcinoma (KIRC) subtype. The present study conducted bioinformatics analysis, Cell Counting Kit-8 and cell migration assays, flow cytometry, western blotting and in vivo experiments with the aim of uncovering the role of PLEKHA4 in beta-catenin signaling in KIRC cells. Notably, PLEKHA4 upregulation was revealed to be associated with enhanced cell proliferation, indicating its potential role as an oncogene in KIRC. Mechanistically, knockdown of PLEKHA4 in KIRC cells led to decreased beta-catenin signaling and cyclin D1 expression and the induction of cell cycle arrest at the G1/S phase, suggesting that PLEKHA4 facilitated tumorigenesis through modulation of the Wnt/beta-catenin pathway. PLEKHA4 knockdown also inhibited cell viability, migration and colony formation, further emphasizing its role in cancer progression. Notably, overexpression of PLEKHA4 activated Wnt/beta-catenin signaling, reinforcing its role in promoting beta-catenin nuclear translocation and signaling activity. The present findings suggested that PLEKHA4 could serve as a potential therapeutic target for KIRC; inhibiting PLEKHA4 or modulating Wnt/beta-catenin signaling could provide new avenues for treatment strategies in KIRC.
PXD046542	39540462	Age-associated metabolic and epigenetic barriers during direct reprogramming of mouse fibroblasts into induced cardiomyocytes. 	Metabolic and age-associated epigenetic barriers during direct reprogramming of mouse fibroblasts into induced cardiomyocytes	histone post-translational modifications	Heart disease is the leading cause of mortality in developed countries, and novel regenerative procedures are warranted. Direct cardiac conversion (DCC) of adult fibroblasts can create induced cardiomyocytes (iCMs) for gene and cell-based heart therapy, and in addition to holding great promise, still lacks effectiveness as metabolic and age-associated barriers remain elusive. Here, by employing MGT (Mef2c, Gata4, Tbx5) transduction of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) and adult (dermal and cardiac) fibroblasts from animals of different ages, we provide evidence that the direct reprogramming of fibroblasts into iCMs decreases with age. Analyses of histone posttranslational modifications and ChIP-qPCR revealed age-dependent alterations in the epigenetic landscape of DCC. Moreover, DCC is accompanied by profound mitochondrial metabolic adaptations, including a lower abundance of anabolic metabolites, network remodeling, and reliance on mitochondrial respiration. In vitro metabolic modulation and dietary manipulation in vivo improve DCC efficiency and are accompanied by significant alterations in histone marks and mitochondrial homeostasis. Importantly, adult-derived iCMs exhibit increased accumulation of oxidative stress in the mitochondria and activation of mitophagy or dietary lipids; they improve DCC and revert mitochondrial oxidative damage. Our study provides evidence that metaboloepigenetics plays a direct role in cell fate transitions driving DCC, highlighting the potential use of metabolic modulation to improve cardiac regenerative strategies.
PXD054763	39541211	Sleep deprivation leads to non-adaptive alterations in sleep microarchitecture and amyloid-beta accumulation in a murine Alzheimer model. 	Sleep deprivation leads to non-adaptive alterations in sleep microarchitecture and amyloid-beta accumulation in a murine Alzheimer model	Cerebrospinal fluid, extracellular fluid, sleep	Impaired sleep is a common aspect of aging and often precedes the onset of Alzheimer's disease. Here, we compare the effects of sleep deprivation in young wild-type mice and their APP/PS1 littermates, a murine model of Alzheimer's disease. After 7 h of sleep deprivation, both genotypes exhibit an increase in EEG slow-wave activity. However, only the wild-type mice demonstrate an increase in the power of infraslow norepinephrine oscillations, which are characteristic of healthy non-rapid eye movement sleep. Notably, the APP/PS1 mice fail to enhance norepinephrine oscillations 24 h after sleep deprivation, coinciding with an accumulation of cerebral amyloid-beta protein. Proteome analysis of cerebrospinal fluid and extracellular fluid further supports these findings by showing altered protein clearance in APP/PS1 mice. We propose that the suppression of infraslow norepinephrine oscillations following sleep deprivation contributes to increased vulnerability to sleep loss and heightens the risk of developing amyloid pathology in early stages of Alzheimer's disease.
PXD048659	39541353	HIRA and dPCIF1 coordinately establish totipotent chromatin and control orderly ZGA in Drosophila embryos. 	HIRA and dPCIF1 coordinately establish totipotent chromatin and control orderly ZGA in Drosophila embryos	GAF, ZGA, drosophila,embryo	Early embryos undergo profound changes in their genomic architecture to establish the totipotent state, enabling pioneer factors to access chromatin and drive zygotic genome activation (ZGA). However, the mechanisms by which the totipotent state is established and properly interpreted by pioneer factors to allow orderly ZGA remain unknown. Here, we identify the H3.3-specific chaperone HIRA as a factor involving establishing totipotent-state chromatin in Drosophila early embryos. Through cophase separation with HIRA, the pioneer factor GAGA factor (GAF) efficiently binds to H3.3-marked nucleosomes to activate major-wave zygotic genes. Importantly, dPCIF1, a chromatin-associated protein, antagonized the GAF-HIRA interaction by competitively binding to HIRA, thereby restricting GAF on earlier chromatin and avoiding premature ZGA. Hence, the coordinated action of HIRA and dPCIF1 ensures sequential ZGA from the minor to major wave in early embryos. This study provides insights into understanding how a totipotent state is established and properly controlled during ZGA.
PXD051045	39542188	Safety assessment and exploration of the mechanism of toxic effects of diallyl trisulfide: based on acute and subacute toxicity and proteomics experiments. 	Toxicological safety evaluation of diallyl trisulfide through acute and subacute toxicity studies in ICR mice	ICR mice, acute and subacute toxicity studies, diallyl trisulfide, serum, spleen	ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL RELEVANCE: Garlic (Allium sativum L.) is a widely consumed spice and condiment around the world, applied both as a food and as a traditional medicine, and is a natural strengthening agent for the body's circulatory and nervous systems. Diallyl trisulfide (DATS) is the major volatile organosulfur phytochemical found in garlic, with antithrombotic, anticoagulant, and antiplatelet activities as well as antioxidant, anti-infective, and other pharmacological effects. However, the safe dose and the underlying mechanisms of its toxic effects remain elusive. AIM OF THE STUDY: DATS, an important pharmacologically active compound found in garlic, has garnered attention for its ability to fight cancer, antioxidant, anti-infective, and cardioprotective. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety of DATS and to elucidate the potential mechanisms of its toxicity. MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study, ICR mice were selected for acute and subacute toxicity experiments according to OECD guidelines. The toxicity profile of DATS was analyzed by computer prediction software. Also, key differential proteins in spleen and serum were analyzed by proteomics. The binding stability of DAST to differential proteins was analyzed by molecular docking. Additionally, the regulatory relationship between DATS and differential proteins was verified by western blot and ELISA experiments. RESULTS: The results showed that the LD50 value of DATS in acute toxicity was 188.67 mg/kg. In subacute toxicity, water consumption and food intake were reduced in both male and female mice. In addition, the spleen and small intestinal organ coefficients were significantly elevated in male mice at the high dose of DATS; the blood biochemical indices ALB and TP were also significantly elevated. HE staining results showed significant damage to the spleen, liver, small intestine, and kidney of mice at high doses of DATS. Spleen and serum proteomics analyses showed that DATS significantly inhibited ZBP1 expression and upregulated TEC. ADMETlab 2.0 software predictions identified DATS as having potential genotoxicity, dermal sensitization, carcinogenicity, and respiratory and ocular toxicity. Docking results showed that the binding energies between DATS and TEC protein (PDB: 6F3F) and ZBP1 protein (PDB: 4KA4) were -3.7 kcal/mol, -2.4 kcal/mol, respectively. Western blot results showed that DATS-H significantly inhibited the expression of ZBP1 (only in male mice) and Bcl-2 proteins. ELISA results showed that DATS-H significantly increased the level of TEC protein both in male and female mice. CONCLUSIONS: Long-term administration of high-dose DATS may carry some risk of toxicity. Based on the amount of DATS in garlic, it is recommended that adults should not take more than 359 mg of DATS and 84.5 g of garlic per day. The mechanism of toxicity may be related to the fact that DATS significantly inhibits ZBP1 expression, upregulates TEC, and promotes apoptosis. This study provides valuable toxicological data for the effective evaluation of the long-term toxicity of DATS and offers an additional experimental basis for developing DATS as a healthy food or drug.
PXD054171	39542253	Adaptor protein 3BP2 regulates gene expression in addition to the ubiquitination and proteolytic activity of MALT1 in dectin-1-stimulated cells. 	GST-SH2 domain of 3BP2, pull down, curdlan-stimulated BMDC	3BP2, SH2 domain, tyrosine phosphorylation	Dectin-1, a C-type lectin, plays important roles in the induction of antifungal immunity. Caspase recruitment domain-containing protein 9 (CARD9) is essential for the dectin-1-induced production of cytokines through the activation of NF-kappaB. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the dectin-1-mediated activation of CARD9 have not been fully elucidated. Recently, we reported that the adaptor protein SH3 domain-binding protein 2 (3BP2) is required for the dectin-1-induced production of cytokines and activation of NF-kappaB, although the relationship between 3BP2 and CARD9 in dectin-1-mediated signaling remains unclear. Here, we report that 3BP2 is required for dectin-1-induced expression of several genes that may contribute to antifungal immunity in bone marrow-derived dendritic cells (BMDCs). The results of reporter assays using HEK-293T cells indicate that 3BP2 induces CARD9-mediated activation of NF-kappaB through B-cell leukemia/lymphoma 10, mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma translocation protein 1 (MALT1), and TNF receptor-associated factor 6-dependent mechanisms. In addition, we show that 3BP2 induces CARD9-mediated ubiquitination of cellular proteins and that MALT1 cleaves 3BP2 in a CARD9-dependent manner. Furthermore, we show that 3BP2 is required for the ubiquitination, in addition to the activation, of MALT1, which leads to MALT1-depenedent cleavage of 3BP2 in dectin-1-stimulated BMDCs. Finally, we identified hematopoietic cell-specific Lyn substrate 1 as a target of 3BP2, which is essential for dectin-1-induced expression of interleukin 10 in BMDCs. These results indicate that 3BP2 regulates gene expression and functions of MALT1 in dectin-1-stimulated cells and that 3BP2 plays an important role in the dectin-1-mediated antifungal immunity.
PXD056137	39543109	Multi-omics with dynamic network biomarker algorithm prefigures organ-specific metastasis of lung adenocarcinoma. 	Metastatic serum secretome for discovering organ-specific metastasis of lung adenocarcinoma	bone metastasis, serum	Efficacious strategies for early detection of lung cancer metastasis are of significance for improving the survival of lung cancer patients. Here we show the marker genes and serum secretome foreshadowing the lung cancer site-specific metastasis through dynamic network biomarker (DNB) algorithm, utilizing two clinical cohorts of four major types of lung cancer distant metastases, with single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of primary lesions and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry data of sera. Also, we locate the intermediate status of cancer cells, along with its gene signatures, in each metastatic state trajectory that cancer cells at this stage still have no specific organotropism. Furthermore, an integrated neural network model based on the filtered scRNA-seq data is successfully constructed and validated to predict the metastatic state trajectory of cancer cells. Overall, our study provides an insight to locate the pre-metastasis status of lung cancer and primarily examines its clinical application value, contributing to the early detection of lung cancer metastasis in a more feasible and efficacious way.
PXD054628	39543163	Proteomic profile of the antibody diversity in circulating extracellular vesicles of lung adenocarcinoma. 	Exosomes of Human blood plasma Lc-MS/MS	Exosomes, Plasma, blood	Immunoglobulin diversity encompasses B-cell receptor, T-cell receptor, and antibody diversity. Existing studies have focused more on the role of B-cell and T-cell receptor diversity in tumor immunity, while the role of antibody diversity is less understood. This study examined and compared the blood extracellular vesicles (EVs) of lung cancer patients and healthy individuals using proteomics and bioinformatics analyses. The results revealed that among the 270 identified proteins, those involved in defense mechanisms were the most abundant. Most of these were antibody subtypes, accounting for 50.00%. Similarly, of the 40 identified EVs differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), 29 were involved in defense mechanisms (72.50%), with a higher proportion being antibody subtypes (82.76%). Furthermore, 24 DEP antibody subtypes were implicated in 18 immune reaction-related signaling pathways. These findings suggest that human serum EVs contain a significant number of antibody subtypes, and the antibody subtypes from lung cancer serum EVs differ from those of healthy controls (HCs). The variations in antibody diversity may be closely associated with lung cancer tumor immunity.
PXD044276	39543366	Proteomic analysis of human Wharton's jelly mesenchymal stem/stromal cells and human amniotic epithelial stem cells: a comparison of therapeutic potential. 	Proteomic analysis of human Wharton's jelly mesenchymal stem/stromal cells and human amniotic epithelial stem cells: a comparison of therapeutic potential	ECM remodeling, angiogenesis, anti-oxidative stress, cell therapy, human Whartons jelly mesenchymal stem cells, human amniotic epithelial stem cells, immunomodulation, low immunogenicity, neuroprotection	Perinatal stem cells have prominent applications in cell therapy and regenerative medicine. Among them, human Wharton's jelly mesenchymal stem/stromal cells (hWJMSCs) and human amniotic epithelial stem cells (hAESCs) have been widely used. However, the distinction in the therapeutic potential of hWJMSCs and hAESCs is poorly understood. In this study, we reported the phenotypic differences between these two distinct cell types and provided the first systematic comparison of their therapeutic potential in terms of immunomodulation, extracellular matrix (ECM) remodelling, angiogenesis and antioxidative stress using proteomics. The results revealed that the two cell types presented different protein expression profiles and were both promising candidates for cell therapy. Both types of cells demonstrated angiogenic and antifibrotic potential, whereas hAESCs presented superior immunological tolerance and antioxidant properties, which were supported by a series of relevant in vitro assays. Our study provides clues for the selection of appropriate cell types for diverse indications in cell therapy, which contributes to the advancement of their clinical translation and application.
PXD056315	39545720	Time-series transcriptomics reveals distinctive mRNA expression dynamics associated with gene ontology specificity and protein expression in skeletal muscle after electrical stimulation-induced resistance exercise. 	Proteomics in rat skeletal muscle after electrical stimulation-induced resistance exercise	skeletal muscle, tibialis anterior muscle	Resistance exercise upregulates and downregulates the expression of a wide range of genes in skeletal muscle. However, detailed analysis of mRNA dynamics such as response rates and temporal patterns of the transcriptome after resistance exercise has not been performed. We aimed to clarify the dynamics of time-series transcriptomics after resistance exercise. We used electrical stimulation-induced muscle contraction as a resistance exercise model (5 sets x 10 times of 3 s of 100-Hz electrical stimulation) on the tibialis anterior muscle of rats and measured the transcriptome in the muscle before and at 0, 1, 3, 6, and 12 h after muscle contractions by RNA sequencing. We also examined the relationship between the parameters of mRNA dynamics and the increase in protein expression at 12 h after muscle contractions. We found that the function of the upregulated genes differed after muscle contractions depending on their response rate. Genes related to muscle differentiation and response to mechanical stimulus were enriched in the sustainedly upregulated genes. Furthermore, there was a positive correlation between the magnitude of upregulated mRNA expression and the corresponding protein expression level at 12 h after muscle contractions. Although it has been theoretically suggested, this study experimentally demonstrated that the magnitude of the mRNA response after electrical stimulation-induced resistance exercise contributes to skeletal muscle adaptation via increases in protein expression. These findings suggest that mRNA expression dynamics such as response rate, a sustained upregulated expression pattern, and the magnitude of the response contribute to mechanisms underlying adaptation to resistance exercise.
PXD048141	39546607	H2S-Prdx4 axis mitigates Golgi stress to bolster tumor-reactive T cell immunotherapeutic response. 	Golgi-ER Axis Regulates Anti-Tumor T Cell Immunotherapeutic Response	Golgi apparatus, Immunotherapy, T cell	The role of tumor microenvironment (TME)-associated inadequate protein modification and trafficking due to insufficiency in Golgi function, leading to Golgi stress, in the regulation of T cell function is largely unknown. Here, we show that disruption of Golgi architecture under TME stress, identified by the decreased expression of GM130, was reverted upon treatment with hydrogen sulfide (H2S) donor GYY4137 or overexpressing cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS), an enzyme involved in the biosynthesis of endogenous H2S, which also promoted stemness, antioxidant capacity, and increased protein translation, mediated in part by endoplasmic reticulum-Golgi shuttling of Peroxiredoxin-4. In in vivo models of melanoma and lymphoma, antitumor T cells conditioned ex vivo with exogenous H2S or overexpressing CBS demonstrated superior tumor control upon adoptive transfer. Further, T cells with high Golgi content exhibited unique metabolic and glycation signatures with enhanced antitumor capacity. These data suggest that strategies to mitigate Golgi network stress or using Golgi(hi) tumor-reactive T cells can improve tumor control upon adoptive transfer.
PXD056040	39547222	PRDX6 dictates ferroptosis sensitivity by directing cellular selenium utilization. 	PRDX6 dictates ferroptosis sensitivity by directing cellular selenium mobilization	GPX4, PRDX6, ferroptosis, selenium mobilisation	Selenium-dependent glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) is the guardian of ferroptosis, preventing unrestrained (phospho)lipid peroxidation by reducing phospholipid hydroperoxides (PLOOH). However, the contribution of other phospholipid peroxidases in ferroptosis protection remains unclear. We show that cells lacking GPX4 still exhibit substantial PLOOH-reducing capacity, suggesting a contribution of alternative PLOOH peroxidases. By scrutinizing potential candidates, we found that although overexpression of peroxiredoxin 6 (PRDX6), a thiol-specific antioxidant enzyme with reported PLOOH-reducing activity, failed to prevent ferroptosis, its genetic loss sensitizes cancer cells to ferroptosis. Mechanistically, we uncover that PRDX6, beyond its known peroxidase activity, acts as a selenium-acceptor protein, facilitating intracellular selenium utilization and efficient selenium incorporation into selenoproteins, including GPX4. Its physiological significance was demonstrated by reduced GPX4 expression in Prdx6-deficient mouse brains and increased sensitivity to ferroptosis in PRDX6-deficient tumor xenografts in mice. Our study highlights PRDX6 as a critical player in directing cellular selenium utilization and dictating ferroptosis sensitivity.
PXD053895	39547396	Serum proteomics identifies biomarkers for predicting non-survivors in elderly COVID-19 patients. 	Serum Proteomics Identifies Biomarkers for Predicting Non-survivors in Elderly COVID-19 Patients	COVID-19, Serum proteomics features	In December 2022, China ceased the zero-COVID-19 policy, resulting in an increase in hospitalizations and deaths due to COVID-19, particularly among the elderly population. Predicting non-survivors aims to identify high-risk patients and enable targeted interventions to improve survival rates. Additionally, understanding factors affecting prognosis provides essential insights for further research and optimization of treatment strategies. We applied 4D-DIA mass spectrometry for serum proteome analysis and provided a comprehensive characterization of disease features in elderly patients within the Chinese population. Our study elucidated that immune disorders, lung damage, and cardiovascular disorders are predominant causes of death in these patients. Compared to clinical indices, proteomic analysis is more sensitive in tracing these disorders. We also provided a prediction panel for survival outcomes of elderly patients using levels of CXCL10, CXCL16 and IL1RA, which were validated by ELISA. These biomarkers will help improve predictive efficacy for survival outcomes in elderly patients.
PXD035286	39547397	An integrated proteomic and phosphoproteomic landscape of chronic kidney disease. 	TMT-based proteome and phosphoproteome profile of unilateral ureteral obstruction	TMT, UUO, phosphoproteome	The prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is gradually rising worldwide. Patients often remain asymptomatic for an extended period, leaving them unaware of their condition, which can lead to progressing to end-stage renal disease and cause significant economic burden. Improved understanding of CKD pathogenesis can enhance early detection and facilitate advances in drug development. Here, we performed proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of the mouse unilateral ureteral obstruction model to explore the molecular mechanisms of chronic kidney injury. 474 significantly differentially expressed proteins and 96 significantly differentially expressed phosphoproteins were screened, respectively. Chronic kidney injury involves complex metabolic pathways such as citrate cycle and hematopoietic system in proteome, and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation suppression is a notable alteration. The phosphoproteomic analysis revealed a significant upregulation in epithelial mesenchymal transition and P53 pathways, with a corresponding increase in the phosphorylation of Jun at serine 73. Utilizing HK2 cells, we observed that the reduction oxidative phosphorylation was consistently associated with an augmentation in oxidative stress, which subsequently activated Jun and induced apoptosis. Proteins that act as hubs in these pathways may be candidate targets for CKD intervention. These findings contribute significantly to the current understanding of CKD and provide valuable insights for future studies. SIGNIFICANCE: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) incidence rising annually with varied etiologies, kidney often irreversibly fibrotic, the treatment options are limited and often ineffective due to deficient understanding of renal fibrosis mechanisms. Despite the extensive efforts and numerous omics studies conducted on renal fibrosis, to date, no study has been undertaken to investigate the role of phosphorylated proteins in UUO models. Previously, we performed a comprehensive transcriptome and proteome analysis based on the CKD model, but the potential alterations in the phosphoproteome were not addressed. Here, an integrated proteomic and phosphoproteomic landscape of CKD was completed, which was the the first phosphoproteomic profiles of UUO model. Phosphoproteomic profile suggests that the epithelial mesenchymal transition and P53 pathways is significantly activated in mouse models of kidney injury, and the core protein Jun played a key role in CKD. And a preliminary correlation between P-Jun and oxidative phosphorylation was found base on HK2 cells. Our work contributes to a deeper understanding of the disease characteristics and molecular mechanisms of CKD. Identifying potential CKD targets from proteome and phosphoproteome may provide valuable insights for early diagnosis and treatment of CKD.
PXD054146	39550366	NOTCH1 mitochondria localization during heart development promotes mitochondrial metabolism and the endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition in mice. 	NOTCH1 and Endothelial Mitochondrial Metabolism	NOTCH1 NICD1 PDC PDHB	Notch signaling activation drives an endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT) critical for heart development, although evidence suggests that the reprogramming of endothelial cell metabolism can regulate endothelial function independent of canonical cell signaling. Herein, we investigated the crosstalk between Notch signaling and metabolic reprogramming in the EndMT process. Biochemically, we find that the NOTCH1 intracellular domain (NICD1) localizes to endothelial cell mitochondria, where it interacts with and activates the complex to enhance mitochondrial metabolism. Targeting NICD1 to mitochondria induces more EndMT compared with wild-type NICD1, and small molecule activation of PDH during pregnancy improves the phenotype in a mouse model of congenital heart defect. A NOTCH1 mutation observed in non-syndromic tetralogy of Fallot patients decreases NICD1 mitochondrial localization and subsequent PDH activity in heart tissues. Altogether, our findings demonstrate NICD1 enrichment in mitochondria of the developing mouse heart, which induces EndMT by activating PDH and subsequently improving mitochondrial metabolism.
PXD057166	39550367	Structure of a dimeric full-length ABC transporter. 	Cleaved Ycf1p mass spectrometry analysis	ABC transporter, Ycf1p, proteolytic cleavage	Activities of ATP binding cassette (ABC) proteins are regulated by multiple mechanisms, including protein interactions, phosphorylation, proteolytic processing, and/or oligomerization of the ABC protein itself. Here we present the structure of yeast cadmium factor 1 (Ycf1p) in its mature form following cleavage by Pep4p protease. Ycf1p, a C subfamily ABC protein (ABCC), is homologue of human multidrug resistance protein 1. Remarkably, a portion of cleaved Ycf1p forms a well-ordered dimer, alongside monomeric particles also present in solution. While numerous other ABC proteins have been proposed to dimerize, no high-resolution structures have been reported. Both phosphorylation of the regulatory (R) region and ATPase activity are lower in the Ycf1p dimer compared to the monomer, indicating that dimerization affects Ycf1p function. The interface between Ycf1p protomers features protein-protein interactions and contains bound lipids, suggesting that lipids stabilize the dimer. The Ycf1p dimer structure may inform the dimerization interfaces of other ABCC dimers.
PXD021093	39551136	Proteomic study identifies Aurora-A mediated regulation of alternative splicing through multiple splicing factors. 	pre-mRNA splicing is regulated by an Aurora-A-mediated phopsho-signaling network	aurora kinase	The cell cycle regulator Aurora-A kinase presents an attractive target for cancer therapies, though its inhibition is also associated with toxic side effects. To gain a more nuanced understanding of Aurora-A function, we applied shotgun proteomics to identify 407 specific protein partners, including several splicing factors. Supporting a role in alternative splicing, we found that Aurora-A localizes to nuclear speckles, the storehouse of splicing proteins. Aurora-A interacts with and phosphorylates splicing factors both in vitro and in vivo, suggesting that it regulates alternative splicing by modulating the activity of these splicing factors. Consistently, Aurora-A inhibition significantly impacts the alternative splicing of 505 genes, with RNA motif analysis revealing an enrichment for Aurora-A interacting splicing factors. Additionally, we observed a significant positive correlation between the splicing events regulated by Aurora-A and those modulated by its interacting splicing factors. An interesting example is represented by CLK1 exon 4, which appears to be regulated by Aurora-A through SRSF3. Collectively, our findings highlight a broad role of Aurora-A in the regulation of alternative splicing.
PXD052766	39551765	Prolonged cultivation enhances the stimulatory activity of hiPSC mesenchymal progenitor-derived conditioned medium. 	Conditioned medium from human iPSC-derived mesenchymal progenitors: Effect of extended progenitor cultivation vs. osteogenic pre-differentiation on the medium stimulatory activity	Conditioned medium, aging, human bone marrow mesenchymal stromal cells, human iPSCs, mesenchymal progenitors, osteogenic differentiation, proteomic analysis, secretome	BACKGROUND: Human induced pluripotent stem cells represent a scalable source of youthful tissue progenitors and secretomes for regenerative therapies. The aim of our study was to investigate the potential of conditioned medium (CM) from hiPSC-mesenchymal progenitors (hiPSC-MPs) to stimulate osteogenic differentiation of human bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs). We also investigated whether prolonged cultivation or osteogenic pre-differentiation of hiPSC-MPs could enhance the stimulatory activity of CM. METHODS: MSCs were isolated from 13 donors (age 20-90 years). CM derived from hiPSC-MPs was added to the MSC cultures and the effects on proliferation and osteogenic differentiation were examined after 14 days and 6 weeks. The stimulatory activity of hiPSC-MP-CM was compared with the activity of MSC-derived CM and with the activity of CM prepared from hiPSC-MPs pre-cultured in growth or osteogenic medium for 14 days. Comparative proteomic analysis of CM was performed to gain insight into the molecular components responsible for the stimulatory activity. RESULTS: Primary bone marrow-derived MSC exhibited variability, with a tendency towards lower proliferation and tri-lineage differentiation in older donors. hiPSC-MP-CM increased the proliferation and alkaline phosphatase activity of MSC from several adult/aged donors after 14 days of continuous supplementation under osteogenic conditions. However, CM supplementation failed to improve the mineralization of MSC pellets after 6 weeks under osteogenic conditions. hiPSC-MP-CM showed greater enhancement of proliferation and ALP activity than CM derived from bone marrow-derived MSCs. Moreover, 14-day cultivation but not osteogenic pre-differentiation of hiPSC-MPs strongly enhanced CM stimulatory activity. Quantitative proteomic analysis of d14-CM revealed a distinct profile of components that formed a highly interconnected associations network with two clusters, one functionally associated with binding and organization of actin/cytoskeletal components and the other with structural constituents of the extracellular matrix, collagen, and growth factor binding. Several hub proteins were identified that were reported to have functions in cell-extracellular matrix interaction, osteogenic differentiation and development. CONCLUSIONS: Our data show that hiPSC-MP-CM enhances early osteogenic differentiation of human bone marrow-derived MSCs and that prolonged cultivation of hiPSC-MPs enhances CM-stimulatory activity. Proteomic analysis of the upregulated protein components provides the basis for further optimization of hiPSC-MP-CM for bone regenerative therapies.
PXD050973	39551860	Targeting ErbB and tankyrase1/2 prevent the emergence of drug-tolerant persister cells in ALK-positive lung cancer. 	Phosphoproteome of NSCLC patient-derived cells.	phosphorylation TMT	Targeting the drug tolerant persister (DTP) state in cancer cells should prevent further development of resistance mechanisms. This study explored combination therapies to inhibit alectinib-induced DTP cell formation from anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive non-small cell lung cancer (ALK + NSCLC) patient-derived cells. After drug-screening 3114 compounds, pan-HER inhibitors (ErbB pathway) and tankyrase1/2 inhibitors (Wnt/beta-catenin signaling) emerged as top candidates to inhibit alectinib-induced DTP cells growth. We confirmed knockdown of both TNKS1/2 in DTP cells recovered the sensitivity to alectinib. Further, our study suggested knockdown of TNKS1/2 increased stability of Axin1/2, which induced beta-catenin degradation and decreased its nuclear translocation, thereby suppressing transcription of antiapoptotic and proliferation-related genes (survivin, c-MYC). Targeting both pathways with alectinib+pan-HER inhibitor and alectinib+TNKS1/2 inhibitor suppressed alectinib-induced DTP cells, and the triple combination almost completely prevented the appearance of DTP cells. In conclusion, combination with ALK-TKI, pan-HER and TNKS1/2 inhibitors has the potential to prevent the emergence of DTP in ALK + NSCLC.
PXD049414	39551943	Phosphoproteomic analysis of distylous Turnera subulata identifies pathways related to endoreduplication that correlate with reciprocal herkogamy. 	 Phosphoproteomic analysis of distylous Turnera subulata identifies pathways related to endoreduplication that correlate with reciprocal herkogamy 	CRYPTIC PRECOCIOUS, Distyly, Herkogamy, Heterostyly, Reproduction, S-protein homolog, Turnera, Turnera subulata, filament elongation	PREMISE: A multi-omic approach was used to explore proteins and networks hypothetically important for establishing filament dimorphisms in heterostylous Turnera subulata (Sm.) as an exploratory method to identify genes for future empirical research. METHODS: Mass spectrometry (MS) was used to identify differentially expressed proteins and differentially phosphorylated peptides in the developing filaments between the L- and S-morphs. RNAseq was used to generate a co-expression network of the developing filaments, MS data were mapped to the co-expression network to identify hypothetical relationships between the S-gene responsible for filament dimorphisms and differentially expressed proteins. RESULTS: Mapping all MS identified proteins to a co-expression network of the S-morph's developing filaments identified several clusters containing SPH1 and other differentially expressed or phosphorylated proteins. Co-expression analysis clustered CDKG2, a protein that induces endoreduplication, and SPH1-suggesting a shared biological function. MS analysis suggests that the protein is present and phosphorylated only in the S-morph, and thus active only in the S-morph. A series of CDKG2 regulators, including ATM1, and cell cycle regulators also correlated with the presence of reciprocal herkogamy, supporting our interest in the protein. CONCLUSIONS: This work has built a foundation for future empirical work, specifically supporting the role of CDKG2 and ATM1 in promoting filament elongation in response to SPH1 perception.
PXD046679	39552019	An AMP-activated protein kinase-PGC-1alpha axis mediates metabolic plasticity in glioblastoma. 	An AMP-activated protein kinase-PGC-1alpha axis mediates metabolic plasticity in glioblastoma	AMP-Kinase, Glioblastoma, PGC-1alpha, PPARGC1A, hypoxia, metabolic plasticity, tumor microenvironment	Glioblastoma, the most frequent primary malignant brain tumour in adults, is characterised by profound yet dynamic hypoxia and nutrient depletion. To sustain survival and proliferation, tumour cells are compelled to acquire metabolic plasticity with the induction of adaptive metabolic programs. Here, we interrogated the pathways necessary to enable processing of nutrients other than glucose. We employed genetic approaches (stable/inducible overexpression, CRISPR/Cas9 knockout), pharmacological interventions with a novel inhibitor of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) in glioblastoma cell culture systems and a proteomic approach to investigate mechanisms of metabolic plasticity. Moreover, a spatially resolved multiomic analysis was employed to correlate the gene expression pattern of PGC-1alpha with the local metabolic and genetic architecture in human glioblastoma tissue sections. A switch from glucose to alternative nutrients triggered an activation of AMPK, which in turn activated PGC-1alpha-dependent adaptive programs promoting mitochondrial metabolism. This sensor-effector mechanism was essential for metabolic plasticity with both functional AMPK and PGC-1alpha necessary for survival and growth of cells under nonglucose nutrient sources. In human glioblastoma tissue specimens, PGC-1alpha-expression correlated with nonhypoxic tumour niches defining a specific metabolic compartment. Our findings reveal a cell-intrinsic nutrient sensing and switching mechanism. The exposure to alternative fuels triggers a starvation signal that subsequently is passed on via AMPK and PGC-1alpha to induce adaptive programs necessary for broader spectrum nutrient metabolism. The integration of spatially resolved transcriptomic data confirms the relevance of PGC-1alpha especially in nonhypoxic tumour regions. Thus, the AMPK-PGC-1alpha axis is a candidate for therapeutic inhibition in glioblastoma. KEY POINTS/HIGHLIGHTS: AMPK activation induces PGC-1alpha expression in glioblastoma during nutrient scarcity. PGC-1alpha enables metabolic plasticity by facilitating metabolism of alternative nutrients in glioblastoma. PGC-1alpha expression is inversely correlated with hypoxic tumour regions in human glioblastomas.
PXD051553	39554867	Size matters: Biomolecular compositions of small and large extracellular vesicles in the urine of glioblastoma patients. 	Size matters: Biomolecular compositions of small and large extracellular vesicles in the urine of glioblastoma patients	Extracellular Vesicles, Gliioblastoma, Liquid Biopsy, Urine	The promise of urinary extracellular vesicles (uEVs) in biomarker discovery is emerging. However, the characteristics and compositions of different uEV subpopulations across normal physiological and pathological states require rigorous explication. We recently reported proteomic signatures of small (s)-uEVs (<200 nm membranous nanoparticles) and described putative biomarkers corresponding to the diagnosis, tumour burden and recurrence of the lethal adult primary brain tumour, glioblastoma. Here, we comprehensively characterise uEV populations with significantly different mean and mode particle sizes obtained by differential centrifugation at 100,000 x g (100K-uEVs; smaller) and 17,000 x g (17K-uEVs; larger) using Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy and quantitative data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. We show distinct differences in protein and lipid content, prominent protein secondary structures, and proteome distributions between uEV populations that can distinguish glioblastoma patients from healthy controls and correspond to clinically relevant tumour changes (i.e., recurrence and treatment resistance). Among the key findings is a putative seven-protein biomarker panel associated with 17K-uEVs that could distinguish all glioblastoma patients from healthy controls and accurately classify 98.2% of glioblastoma samples. These novel, significant findings demonstrate that both uEV populations offer individual and combined biomarker potential. Further research is warranted to elucidate the complete diagnostic, prognostic, and predictive capabilities of often-neglected 17K-uEV populations.
PXD053212	39556659	Optimized and Robust Workflow for Quantifying the Canonical Histone Ubiquitination Marks H2AK119ub and H2BK120ub by LC-MS/MS. 	An optimized and robust workflow for quantifying the canonical histone ubiquitination marks H2AK119ub and H2BK120ub by LC-MS/MS	Histones, epigenetics, post-translational modifications, ubiquitination	The eukaryotic genome is packaged around histone proteins, which are subject to a myriad of post-translational modifications. By controlling DNA accessibility and the recruitment of protein complexes that mediate chromatin-related processes, these modifications constitute a key mechanism of epigenetic regulation. Since mass spectrometry can easily distinguish between these different modifications, it has become an essential technique in deciphering the histone code. Although robust LC-MS/MS methods are available to analyze modifications on the histone N-terminal tails, routine methods for characterizing ubiquitin marks on histone C-terminal regions, especially H2AK119ub, are less robust. Here, we report the development of a simple workflow for the detection and improved quantification of the canonical histone ubiquitination marks H2AK119ub and H2BK120ub. The method entails a fully tryptic digestion of acid-extracted histones, followed by derivatization with heavy or light propionic anhydride. A pooled sample is then spiked into oppositely labeled single samples as a reference channel for relative quantification, and data is acquired using PRM-based nano-LC-MS/MS. We validated our approach with synthetic peptides as well as treatments known to modulate the levels of H2AK119ub and H2BK120ub. This new method complements existing histone workflows, largely focused on the lysine-rich N-terminal regions, by extending modification analysis to other sequence contexts.
PXD051188	39557413	Profiling of i-motif-binding proteins reveals functional roles of nucleolin in regulation of high-order DNA structures. 	Proteome analysis of i-motif DNA binding proteins	i-motif, non-canonical DNA structures, proximity labeling	Non-canonical DNA structures, such as the G-quadruplex (G4) and i-motif (iM), are formed at guanine- and cytosine-rich sequences, respectively, in living cells and involved in regulating various biological processes during the cell cycle. Therefore, the formation and resolution of these non-canonical structures must be dynamically regulated by physiological conditions or factors that can bind G4 and iM structures. Although many G4 binding proteins responsible for tuning the G4 structure have been discovered, the structural regulation of iM by iM-binding proteins remains enigmatic. In this study, we developed a protein-labeling DNA probe bearing an alkyne moiety through a reactive linker, for proximity-labeling of nucleic acid-binding proteins, and searched for new iM-binding proteins. Alkyne-modified proteins in the nuclear extract of HeLa cells were labeled with biotin via a click reaction and then captured with streptavidin-coated magnetic beads. This fingerprint-targeting enrichment, followed by proteome analyses, identified new candidate proteins that potentially bind to the iM structure, in addition to the reported iM-binding proteins. Among the newly identified candidates, we characterized a nucleolar protein, nucleolin, that binds to the iM structure and relaxes it, while nucleolin stabilizes the G4 structure.
PXD044322	39558163	Efficient suppression of premature termination codons with alanine by engineered chimeric pyrrolysine tRNAs. 	Efficient Suppression of Premature Termination Codons by Engineered Pyrrolysine tRNAs	GFP, bacteria, mutations, premature termination codons, tRNA	Mutations that introduce premature termination codons (PTCs) within protein-coding genes are associated with incurable and severe genetic diseases. Many PTC-associated disorders are life-threatening and have no approved medical treatment options. Suppressor transfer RNAs (sup-tRNAs) with the capacity to translate PTCs represent a promising therapeutic strategy to treat these conditions; however, developing novel sup-tRNAs with high efficiency and specificity often requires extensive engineering and screening. Moreover, these efforts are not always successful at producing more efficient sup-tRNAs. Here we show that a pyrrolysine (Pyl) tRNA (tRNAPyl), which naturally translates the UAG stop codon, offers a favorable scaffold for developing sup-tRNAs that restore protein synthesis from PTC-containing genes. We created a series of rationally designed Pyl tRNAScaffold Suppressor-tRNAs (PASS-tRNAs) that are substrates of bacterial and human alanyl-tRNA synthetase. Using a PTC-containing fluorescent reporter gene, PASS-tRNAs restore protein synthesis to wild-type levels in bacterial cells. In human cells, PASS-tRNAs display robust and consistent PTC suppression in multiple reporter genes, including pathogenic mutations in the tumor suppressor gene BRCA1 associated with breast and ovarian cancer. Moreover, PTC suppression occurred with high codon specificity and no observed cellular dysregulation. Collectively, these results unveil a new class of sup-tRNAs with encouraging potential for tRNA-based therapeutic applications.
PXD051542	39558244	TMT-based quantitative proteomics analysis of defense responses induced by the Bph3 gene following brown planthopper infection in rice. 	Function and molecular mechanism of cold tolerance regulation studies of cold stress response protein CORP1 in rice	Cold tolerance, molecular mechanism, protein regulation, rice	BACKGROUND: The brown planthopper (BPH) is an economically significant pest of rice. Bph3 is a key BPH resistance gene. However, the proteomic response of rice to BPH infestation, both in the presence and absence of Bph3, remains largely unexplored. RESULTS: In this study, we employed tandem mass tag labeling in conjunction with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in rice samples. We detected 265 and 125 DEPs via comparison of samples infected with BPH for 2 and 4 days with untreated samples of the BPH-sensitive line R582. For the Bph3 introgression line R373, we identified 29 and 94 DEPs in the same comparisons. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that Bph3 significantly influences the abundance of proteins associated with metabolic pathways, secondary metabolite biosynthesis, microbial metabolism in diverse environments, and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis. Moreover, Bph3 regulates the activity of proteins involved in the calcium signaling pathway, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway, and plant hormone signal transduction. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that Bph3 enhances the resistance of rice to BPH mainly by inhibiting the down-regulation of proteins associated with metabolic pathways; calcium signaling, the MAPK signaling pathway, and plant hormone signal transduction might also be involved in BPH resistance induced by Bph3.
PXD051425	39560996	beta-catenin disruption decreases macrophage exosomal alpha-SNAP and impedes Treg differentiation in acute liver injury. 	beta-catenin disruption decreases macrophage exosomal alpha-SNAP and impedes Treg differentiation in acute liver injury	BMDM, EXOSOME	Hepatic macrophages and regulatory T cells (Tregs) play an important role in the maintenance of liver immune homeostasis, but the mechanism by which hepatic macrophages regulate Tregs in acute liver injury remains largely unknown. Here, we found that the hepatic Treg proportion and beta-catenin expression in hepatic macrophages were associated with acetaminophen (APAP) and D-galactosamine (D-GalN)/ lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced acute liver injury. Interestingly, beta-catenin was markedly upregulated only in infiltrating macrophages, but not in resident Kupffer cells. Myeloid-specific beta-catenin knockout mice showed an increased inflammatory cell infiltration and hepatocyte apoptosis. Moreover, myeloid beta-catenin deficiency decreased the hepatic Treg proportion in the injured liver. Mechanistically, in vitro co-culture experiments revealed that macrophage beta-catenin modulated its exosome composition, and influenced Treg differentiation. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we identified that macrophage beta-catenin activation increased the level of exosomal alpha-SNAP, which in turn promoted Treg differentiation. Overall, our findings demonstrated a molecular mechanism that macrophage beta-catenin regulated the Treg proportion in the liver by enhancing the expression of exosomal alpha-SNAP, providing insights into the pathophysiology of acute liver injury.
PXD053572	39561280	Preclinical efficacy of CDK7 inhibitor-based combinations against myeloproliferative neoplasms transformed to AML. 	Effect of CDK7 inhibitor on protein expression alterations in cultured secondary AML HEL92.1.7 cells	CDK7 inhibitor, Secondary AML, c-Myc	Rising blast-percentage or secondary (s) AML transformation (sAML) in MPNs leads to JAK inhibitor (JAKi) therapy-resistance and poor survival. Here, we demonstrate that the CDK7 inhibitor (CDK7i) SY-5609 treatment depletes phenotypically-characterized post-MPN-sAML stem/progenitor cells. In the cultured post-MPN sAML SET2 and HEL as well as patient-derived (PD) post-MPN-sAML cells, SY-5609 treatment inhibited growth and induced lethality, while sparing normal cells. RNA-Seq analysis following SY-5609 treatment demonstrated reduced mRNA expressions of MYC, MYB, CDK4/6, PIM1, and CCND1, but increased mRNA levels of CDKN1A and BCL2L1. Mass spectrometry of SY-5609-treated MPN-sAML cells also demonstrated reduced c-Myc, c-Myb, PIM1, and CDK4/6 but increased p21, caspase 9 and BAD protein levels. CRISPR-mediated CDK7 depletion also reduced viability of HEL cells. CyTOF analysis of SY-5609-treated PD, post-MPN-sAML stem/progenitor cells showed reduced c-Myc, CDK6 and PU.1, but increased protein levels of CD11b, p21 and cleaved Caspase 3. Co-treatment with SY-5609 and ruxolitinib was synergistically lethal in HEL, SET2 and PD post-MPN-sAML cells.  A CRISPR screen in SET2 and HEL cells revealed BRD4, CBP and p300 as co-dependencies with SY-5609 treatment. Accordingly, co-treatment with SY-5609 and the BETi OTX015 or pelabresib or with the CBP/p300 inhibitor GNE-049 was synergistically lethal in MPN-sAML cells (including those exhibiting TP53 loss). Finally, in the HEL-Luc/GFP xenograft model, compared to each agent alone, co-treatment with SY-5609 and OTX015 reduced post-MPN-sAML burden and improved survival without inducing host toxicity. These findings demonstrate promising preclinical activity of the CDK7i-based combinations with BETi or HATi against advanced-MPNs, including post-MPN-sAML.
PXD052031	39561763	Targeting the aminopeptidase ERAP enhances antitumor immunity by disrupting the NKG2A-HLA-E inhibitory checkpoint. 	Targeting ERAP enhances anti-tumor immunity by disrupting the NKG2A/HLA-E inhibitory checkpoint	HLA-E, Immunotherapy, Orbitrap	The aminopeptidase, endoplasmic reticulum aminopeptidase 1 (ERAP1), trims peptides for loading into major histocompatibility complex class I (MHC class I), and loss of this activity has broad effects on the MHC class I peptidome. Here, we investigated the impact of targeting ERAP1 in immune checkpoint blockade (ICB), as MHC class I interactions mediate both activating and inhibitory functions in antitumor immunity. Loss of ERAP sensitized mouse tumor models to ICB, and this sensitivity depended on CD8(+) T cells and natural killer (NK) cells. In vivo suppression screens revealed that Erap1 deletion inactivated the inhibitory NKG2A-HLA-E checkpoint, which requires presentation of a restricted set of invariant epitopes (VL9) on HLA-E. Loss of ERAP altered the HLA-E peptidome, preventing NKG2A engagement. In humans, ERAP1 and ERAP2 showed functional redundancy for the processing and presentation of VL9, and loss of both inactivated the NKG2A checkpoint in cancer cells. Thus, loss of ERAP phenocopies the inhibition of the NKG2A-HLA-E pathway and represents an attractive approach to inhibit this critical checkpoint.
PXD052350	39561813	Linking planar polarity signalling to actomyosin contractility during vertebrate neurulation. 	Linking planar polarity signaling directly to actomyosin contractility during vertebrate neurulation	Dishevelled, Exploris 480, Prickle, actomyosin contractility, neurulation, planar cell polarity, vertebrates	Actomyosin contractility represents an ancient feature of eukaryotic cells participating in many developmental and homeostasis events, including tissue morphogenesis, muscle contraction and cell migration, with dysregulation implicated in various pathological conditions, such as cancer. At the molecular level, actomyosin comprises actin bundles and myosin motor proteins that are sensitive to posttranslational modifications like phosphorylation. While the molecular components of actomyosin are well understood, the coordination of contractility by extracellular and intracellular signals, particularly from cellular signalling pathways, remains incompletely elucidated. This study focuses on WNT/planar cell polarity (PCP) signalling, previously associated with actomyosin contractility during vertebrate neurulation. Our investigation reveals that the main cytoplasmic PCP proteins, Prickle and Dishevelled, interact with key actomyosin components such as myosin light chain 9 (MLC9), leading to its phosphorylation and localized activation. Using proteomics and microscopy approaches, we demonstrate that both PCP proteins actively control actomyosin contractility through Rap1 small GTPases in relevant in vitro and in vivo models. These findings unveil a novel mechanism of how PCP signalling regulates actomyosin contractility through MLC9 and Rap1 that is relevant to vertebrate neurulation.
PXD050006	39562141	Identification of phosphatases that dephosphorylate the co-chaperone BAG3. 	Identification of serine/threonine-specific phosphatases that dephosphorylate the co-chaperone BAG3 to mediate protein-protein interactions	BAG3, FLAG-IP, HEK293, PP5, PRM, Phosphorylation	The co-chaperone BAG3 plays critical roles in maintaining cellular proteostasis. It associates with 14-3-3 proteins during the trafficking of aggregation-prone proteins and facilitates their degradation through chaperone-assisted selective autophagy in cooperation with small heat shock proteins. Although reversible phosphorylation regulates BAG3 function, the involved phosphatases remain unknown. Here, we used affinity purification mass spectrometry to identify phosphatases that target BAG3. Of the hits, we evaluated the involvement of protein phosphatase-1 (PP1) using chemical inhibitors and activators in in vitro and cellular approaches. Our results demonstrate that PP1 can dephosphorylate BAG3-pS136 in cells and counteract 14-3-3gamma association with BAG3 at this motif. Furthermore, protein phosphatase-5 (PP5) co-enriched with proteostasis-related proteins, and it has the capacity to dephosphorylate a BAG3 phosphorylation-site cluster regulating the interaction of BAG3 with small heat shock proteins and BAG3-mediated protein degradation. Our findings provide new insights into the regulation of BAG3 by phosphatases. This paves the way for future research focused on the precise control of BAG3 function through its regulatory proteins, potentially holding therapeutic promise for diseases characterized by disrupted proteostasis.
PXD057750	39562290	Linking the transcriptome to physiology: response of the proteome of cupriavidus metallidurans to changing metal availability. 	Linking the transcriptome to physiology: response of the proteome of Cupriavidus metallidurans to changing metal availability	Cupriavidus metallidurans, Transenvelope efflux systems, Zinc, metal homeostasis, metal starvation	Cupriavidus metallidurans CH34 is a metal-resistant bacterium. Its metal homeostasis is based on a flow equilibrium of metal ion uptake and efflux reactions, which adapts to changing metal concentrations within an hour. At high metal concentrations, up-regulation of the genes for metal efflux systems occurs within minutes. Here, we investigates the changes in the bacterial proteome accompanying these genetic and physiological events after 1.5 cell duplications, which took 3 hours. To that end, C. metallidurans CH34 and its plasmid-free derivative, AE104, were challenged either with a toxic metal mix or were cultivated under metal-starvation conditions, followed by bottom-up proteomics. When metal-shocked or -starved cells were compared with their respective controls, 3 540 proteins changed in abundance, with 76% appearing in one, but not the other, condition; the remaining 24% were up- or down-regulated. Metal-shocked C. metallidurans strains had adjusted their proteomes to combat metal stress. The most prominent polypeptides were the products of the plasmid-encoded metal-resistance determinants in strain CH34, particularly the CzcCBA transenvelope efflux system. Moreover, the influence of antisense transcripts on the proteome was also revealed. In one specific example, the impact of an asRNA on the abundance of gene products could be demonstrated and this yielded new insights into the function of the transmembrane efflux complex ZniCBA under conditions of metal starvation.
PXD043134	39562739	ZBTB48 is a priming factor regulating B-cell-specific CIITA expression. 	ZBTB48 is a pioneer factor regulating B-cell-specific CIITA expression	B cell, CIITA, MHC II, ZBTB48, adaptive immunity, molecular switch, pioneer factor, zinc finger	The class-II transactivator (CIITA) is the master regulator of MHC class-II gene expression and hence the adaptive immune response. Three cell type-specific promoters (pI, pIII, and pIV) are involved in the regulation of CIITA expression, which can be induced by IFN-gamma in non-immune cells. While key regulatory elements have been identified within these promoters, our understanding of the transcription factors regulating CIITA expression is incomplete. Here, we demonstrate that the telomere-binding protein and transcriptional activator ZBTB48 directly binds to both critical activating elements within the B-cell-specific promoter CIITA pIII. ZBTB48 knockout impedes the CIITA/MHC-II expression program induced in non-APC cells by IFN-gamma, and loss of ZBTB48 in mice silences MHC-II expression in pro-B and immature B cells. Transcriptional regulation of CIITA by ZBTB48 is enabled by ZBTB48-dependent chromatin opening at CIITA pIII upstream of activating H3K4me3 marks. We conclude that ZBTB48 primes CIITA pIII by acting as a molecular on-off-switch for B-cell-specific CIITA expression.
PXD056311	39562821	Proteomic profiling of gliomas unveils immune and metabolism-driven subtypes with implications for anti-nucleotide metabolism therapy. 	HSGA glioma tissue and benign tissue in Huashan Hospital	glioma	Gliomas exhibit high heterogeneity and poor prognosis. Despite substantial progress has been made at the genomic and transcriptomic levels, comprehensive proteomic characterization and its implications remain largely unexplored. In this study, we perform proteomic profiling of gliomas using 343 formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tumor samples and 53 normal-appearing brain samples from 188 patients, integrating these data with genomic panel information and clinical outcomes. The proteomic analysis uncovers two distinct subgroups: Subgroup 1, the metabolic neural subgroup, enriched in metabolic enzymes and neurotransmitter receptor proteins, and Subgroup 2, the immune subgroup, marked by upregulation of immune and inflammatory proteins. These proteomic subgroups show significant differences in prognosis, tumorigenesis, microenvironment dysregulation, and potential therapeutics, highlighting the critical roles of metabolic and immune processes in glioma biology and patient outcomes. Through a detailed investigation of metabolic pathways guided by our proteomic findings, dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase (DPYD) and thymidine phosphorylase (TYMP) emerge as potential prognostic biomarkers linked to the reprogramming of nucleotide metabolism. Functional validation in patient-derived glioma stem cells and animal models highlights nucleotide metabolism as a promising therapy target for gliomas. This integrated multi-omics analysis introduces a proteomic classification for gliomas and identifies DPYD and TYMP as key metabolic biomarkers, offering insights into glioma pathogenesis and potential treatment strategies.
PXD053081	39563894	Effects of hyperhomocysteinemia on follicular development and oocytes quality. 	C57BL/6J mouse ovary,4DLabelfree quantitative protein sets from 6 mouse ovarian tissue samples (2 groups, 3 replicates)	4D Laber-free quantitative proteomics, C57BL/6J mouse, ovary	In patients with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), the concentration of homocysteine (Hcy) in follicular fluid is inversely correlated with oocyte and embryo quality. Nevertheless, other metabolic abnormalities associated with PCOS may also impact oocyte and early embryo quality. Therefore, it remains uncertain whether reproductive function is affected in patients without PCOS with hyperhomocysteinemia (HHcy). Here, we observed reduced fertility, increased ovarian atretic follicles, and reduced oocyte maturation rates in HHcy mice. Proteomic analyses revealed that HHcy causes mitochondrial dysfunction and reduced expression of zona pellucida proteins (ZP1, ZP2, and ZP3) in oocytes. Transmission electron microscopy confirmed abnormal formation of the zona pellucida and microvilli in oocytes from HHcy mice. Additionally, in vitro fertilization (IVF) demonstrated a reduction in the rate of 2-cell embryo formation in HHcy mice. These findings reveal that HHcy reduces female reproductive longevity by affecting follicular development and oocyte quality.
PXD051755	39564187	Effect of synchronicity of amino acid supply on the synthesis of protein in C2C12 myotubes cultured in vitro. 	Effect of synchronicity of amino acid supply on the synthesis of protein in C2C12 myotubes cultured in vitro	amino acid supply	Previous studies inferred that the synthesis rate/efficiency of protein in body tissue is probably affected by synchronicity of different amino acid (AA) supply in its metabolic pool. In order to further observe the influence of synchronicity of AA supply on the synthesis of protein in cell level, a cell culture experiment in vitro was conducted with C2C12 myotubes. C2C12 myotubes were cultured for 24 h, meanwhile the culture medium was replaced for each 8 h. Those myotubes were subjected to 3 treatments (1 for controlled and 2 for tested), control myotubes were cultured with same normal complete medium within the whole 24 h, and the 2 tested myotubes were cultured with asynchronous amino acid supply medium in which the levels of different AAs (Lysine, threonine, methionine, leucine, valine and glutamic acid) either increased and then decreased or decreased and then increased, at different replaced medium time point (at 0, 8, and 16 h). However, during the whole experiment period all the 3 treated myotubes received same amount of each AA. The sample of the myotubes were used for myotube morphology, protein, AA, and proteomic analysis. The results showed that asynchronous AA nutrition affect the synthesis and degradation of myotube proteins, and the AAAS in the medium increase, thus decreasing the synthesis rate of myotube proteins (p < 0.05) and decreasing the diameter of myotubes (p < 0.05). The process of reduced protein synthesis affects the PI3K-AKT and FoxO signaling pathway by downregulating the levels of IRS1 and EGFR, and the degradation amplitude is greater than the synthesis amplitude. Therefore, this study further revealed the effect of the asynchronous supply of amino acids on myotube protein synthesis and the underlying mechanism and provided a theoretical reference for the precision of nutrition to animals.
PXD052233	39565848	Hepatovirus translation requires PDGFA-associated protein 1, an eIF4E-binding protein regulating endoplasmic reticulum stress responses. 	Hepatovirus translation requires PDAP1, an eIF4E-binding protein regulating ER stress responses	LC-MS, PDAP1, eIFa, hepatovirus	The overexpression and misfolding of viral proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) may cause cellular stress, thereby inducing a cytoprotective, proteostatic host response involving phosphorylation of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2 subunit alpha (eIF2alpha). Here, we show that hepatitis A virus, a positive-strand RNA virus responsible for infectious hepatitis, adopts a stress-resistant, eIF2alpha-independent mechanism of translation to ensure the synthesis of viral proteins within the infected liver. Cap-independent translation directed by the hepatovirus internal ribosome entry site and productive hepatovirus infection of mice both require platelet-derived growth factor subunit A (PDGFA)-associated protein 1 (PDAP1), a small phosphoprotein of unknown function with eIF4E-binding activity. PDAP1 also interacts with eIF1A and is essential for translating stress-resistant host messenger RNAs that evade the proteostatic response to ER stress and that encode proteins promoting the survival of stressed cells.
PXD052541	39566084	Uncovering protein regulation during adventitious root formation in Platycladus orientalis cuttings. 	Uncovering protein regulation during adventitious root formation in Platycladus orientalis cuttings	TMT technique, cortical rooting, differential proteins, oriental arborvitae, root primordium	Cell totipotency and pluripotency are the cellular basis for root regeneration in Platycladus orientalis cuttings, and the regeneration of adventitious roots is a key determinant for improving stem-cutting. However, the cellular basis and physiological regulation of adventitious root formation are still ambiguous. In this research, root primordia initiation and organogenesis were histologically observed, dynamic alterations in soluble proteins were monitored, and Tandem Mass Tag protein profiling during adventitious root development was carried out. It was explicitly shown that the root primordium primarily originated from undifferentiated xylem cells for indirect (callus) rooting and from dividing cells in the cortex for direct (cortex) rooting. During the entire process of adventitious root development, the activities of peroxidase (POD) and polyphenol oxidase (PPO) peaked, and the activity of indole acetic acid oxidase (IAAO) decreased during the prophase of adventitious root formation in both the direct and indirect rooting, suggesting the positive regulation of POD and PPO and the negative regulation of IAAO during adventitious root initiation. Compared with those of indirect rooting, the relatively greater activities of POD and PPO and lower activity of IAAO were related to direct rooting and the number of adventitious roots. A total of 4265 proteins were identified from the base of the cuttings, of which 343, 236 and 37 proteins were highly expressed before treatment, in root primordia induction to adventitious root formation, and adventitious root elongation stages, respectively. Through hierarchical cluster analysis, 23 peroxidase and endogenous hormone regulatory proteins were screened and obtained; these included 10 peroxidases, 1 auxin regulatory protein, 3 ABA regulatory proteins, 2 jasmonic acid regulatory proteins, and 3 gibberellin regulatory proteins, which were highly expressed during the late cutting period. Finally, a hypothetical model of the regulatory network of the differential proteins involved in adventitious root formation in P. orientalis was constructed.
PXD050241	39567183	One-Pot Time-Induced Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration Assay for Automated and Sensitive Drug-Target Identification. 	One-Pot Time-Induced Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration (OPTI-PISA) assay for automated and sensitive drug target identification	One Pot, Proteome Integral Solubility Alteration (PISA), automation, drug target	The proteome integral solubility alteration (PISA) assay is widely used for identifying drug targets, but it is labor-intensive and time-consuming and requires a substantial amount of biological sample. Aiming at enabling automation and greatly reducing the sample amount, we developed one-pot time-induced (OPTI)-PISA. Here, we demonstrate OPTI-PISA performance on identifying targets of multiple drugs in cell lysate and scaling down the sample amount to sub-microgram levels, making the PISA method suitable for NanoProteomics. OPTI-PISA can be implemented using only the standard equipment of a proteomics lab.
PXD057477	39567869	Expression of ABC transporters negatively correlates with ectoine biosynthesis in Halomonas campaniensis under NaCl and ultraviolet mutagenesis treatments revealed by transcriptomic and proteomics combined analysis. 	Expression of ABC transporters negatively correlates with ectoine biosynthesis in Halomonas campaniensis under NaCl and ultraviolet mutagenesis treatments revealed by transcriptomic and proteomics combined analysis	Ectoine, Halomonas, and salt treatments, transcriptome, ultraviolet	Halomonas species are renowned for their production of organic compatible solutes, particularly ectoine. However, the identification of key regulatory genes governing ectoine production in Halomonas remains limited. In this study, we conducted a combined transcriptome-proteome analysis to unveil additional regulatory genes influencing ectoine biosynthesis, particularly under ultraviolet (UV) and salt conditions. NaCl induction resulted in a 20-fold increase, while UV treatment led to at least 2.5-fold increases in ectoine production. The number of overlapping genes between transcriptomic and proteomic analyses for three comparisons, i.e., non-UV with NaCl (UV0-NaCl) vs. non-UV without NaCl (UV0), UV strain 1 (UV1-NaCl) vs. UV0-NaCl, and UV strain 2 (UV2-NaCl) vs. UV0-NaCl were 137, 19, and 21, respectively. The overlapped Gene Ontology (GO) enrichments between transcriptomic and proteomic analyses include ATPase-coupled organic phosphonate, phosphonate transmembrane transporter activity, and ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transport complex in different comparisons. Furthermore, five common genes exhibited different expression patterns at mRNA and protein levels across the three comparisons. These genes included orf01280, orf00986, orf01283, orf01282 and orf01284. qPCR verification confirmed that three of the five common genes were notably under-expressed following NaCl and UV treatments. This study highlighted the potential role of these five common genes in regulating ectoine production in Halomonas strains.
PXD050789	39568369	Proteome Profiling of Experimental Autoimmune Encephalomyelitis Mouse Model and the Effect of a SUMO E1 Inhibitor. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis mice implicates SUMOylation in multiple sclerosis	brain, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases, causing demyelination and inflammation in the central nervous system. The pathology of MS has been extensively studied using the experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) mouse model. However, the molecular mechanisms are still largely unclear and require further investigation. In this study, we carried out quantitative proteomic analysis of the brain and spinal cord tissues in mice induced with EAE using a data-independent acquisition strategy and identified 744 differentially regulated proteins in the brain and 741 in the spinal cord. The changed proteins were highly related with phagocytosis, lysosomal enzymes, inflammasome activation, complements, and synaptic loss processes. Moreover, gene set enrichment analysis revealed the elevation of the SUMOylation process in EAE with the increase of SUMOylation-related enzymes and modification targets. Furthermore, to test the possibility of treating MS by targeting SUMOylation, we explored the application of a selective SUMO E1 inhibitor, TAK-981. Intriguingly, TAK-981 suppressed the global SUMOylation level in the brain and significantly alleviated the symptoms of EAE in mice. Our findings contribute to a better understanding of MS pathology, reveal the important role of SUMOylation in disease progression, and demonstrate the potential of the SUMO E1 inhibitor as a novel treatment for MS.
PXD066759	39569521	Renal Proximal Tubule Cell-Specific Megalin Deletion Does Not Affect Atherosclerosis But Induces Tubulointerstitial Nephritis in Mice Fed a Western Diet. 	Renal Proximal Tubule Cell-Specific Megalin Deletion Does Not Affect Atherosclerosis But Induces Tubulointerstitial Nephritis in Mice Fed a Western Diet	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP), atherosclerosis, megalin, mice, nephrititis, renal, tubulointerstitial	BACKGROUND: Pharmacological inhibition of megalin (also known as LRP2 [low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein-2]) attenuates atherosclerosis in hypercholesterolemic mice. Since megalin is abundant in renal proximal tubule cells (PTCs), the purpose of this study was to determine whether PTC-specific deletion of megalin reduces hypercholesterolemia-induced atherosclerosis in mice. METHODS: Female Lrp2 f/f mice were bred with male Ndrg1-Cre ERT2 +/0 mice to develop PTC-LRP2 +/+ and PTC-LRP2 -/- littermates. To study atherosclerosis, all mice were bred to an LDL (low-density lipoprotein) receptor -/- background and fed a Western diet to induce atherosclerosis. RESULTS: PTC-specific megalin deletion did not attenuate atherosclerosis in LDL receptor -/- mice in either sex. Serendipitously, we discovered that PTC-specific megalin deletion led to interstitial infiltration of CD68+ cells and tubular atrophy. The pathology was only evident in male PTC-LRP2 -/- mice fed a Western diet but not in mice fed a normal laboratory diet. Renal pathologies were also observed in male PTC-LRP2 -/- mice in an LDL receptor +/+ background fed the same Western diet, demonstrating that the renal pathologies were dependent on diet and not on hypercholesterolemia. In contrast, female PTC-LRP2 -/- mice had no apparent renal pathologies. In vivo multiphoton microscopy demonstrated that PTC-specific megalin deletion dramatically diminished ALB (albumin) accumulation in PTCs within 10 days of Western diet feeding. RNA-sequencing analyses demonstrated the upregulation of inflammation-related pathways in the kidney. CONCLUSIONS: PTC-specific megalin deletion does not affect atherosclerosis but leads to tubulointerstitial nephritis in mice fed a Western diet, with severe pathologies in male mice.
PXD056144	39570115	Efficient Cancer Biomarker Screening and Multicancer Detection Enabled by a Multidimensional Serum Proteomic Strategy. 	Efficient cancer biomarker screening and multi-cancer detection enabled by a multi-dimensional serum proteomic strategy	SERUM DIA, SERUM EV DIA, SERUM PRM	Biomarker discovery and application are paramount for the early diagnosis, treatment, and prognosis assessment of diseases. Novel proteomic strategies have been developed for high-efficiency biomarker screening. However, evaluating various strategies and applying them for the in-depth mining of biomarkers from blood need to be elucidated. Herein, we systematically evaluated the technical characteristics of three representative biomarker discovery strategies, including the most popular DIA proteomics, and two promising strategies targeting the cancer-secreted proteome or extracellular vesicle proteome, and integrated them into one multidimensional serum proteomic strategy. The results showed that the three strategies each have unique characteristics in terms of sensitivity, reproducibility, and protein coverage and are highly complementary in biomarker discovery. The integrated multidimensional serum proteomic strategy achieves deep and comprehensive coverage of the serum proteome, discovers more cancer markers, and helps achieve a more accurate multicancer (breast, lung, stomach, liver, and colorectum) diagnosis with 87.5% localization accuracy.
PXD045614	39571909	Single-cell multi-omics analysis of in vitro post-ovulatory aged oocytes revealed aging-dependent protein degradation. 	Single-cell proteomics analysis of melatonin-treated and MG132-treated in vitro post-ovulatory aged oocytes	MG132, Melatonin, Oocyte, Phosphorylation, Post-ovulation aging, Single cell proteomics	Once ovulated, the oocyte has to be fertilized in a short time window, or it will undergo post-ovulation aging (POA), whose underlying mechanisms are still not elucidated. Here, we optimized single-cell proteomics methods and performed single-cell transcriptomic, proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of fresh, POA, and melatonin-treated POA oocytes. POA oocytes showed down-regulation of most differentially expressed proteins, with little correlation with mRNA expression, and the protein changes can be rescued by melatonin treatment. MG132 treatment rescued the decreased fertilization and polyspermy rates, and up-regulated fragmentation and parthenogenesis rates of POA oocytes. MG132-treated oocytes displayed health status at proteome, phosphoproteome and fertilization ability similar to fresh oocytes, suggesting that protein stabilization might be the underlying mechanism for melatonin to rescue POA. The important roles of proteasome-mediated protein degradation during oocyte POA revealed by single-cell multi-omics analyses offer new perspectives for increasing oocyte quality during POA, and improving assisted reproduction technologies.
PXD050424	39572453	Environmental Proteomics Elucidates Phototrophic Biofilm Responses to Ornamental Lighting on Stone-built Heritage. 	Understanding with environmental proteomics the underlying processes triggered by ornamental lighting on phototrophic biofilms growing on stone-built heritage.	Scenedesmus, Tetradesmus and Chlorella, environmental proteomics, lighting treatment, monumental illumination, stone heritage, subaerial biofilm (SAB).	Recent studies are showing that some lights suitable for illuminating the urban fabric (i.e. that do not include the red, green and blue sets of primary colours) may halt biological colonisation on monuments, mainly that caused by phototrophic subaerial biofilms (SABs), which may exacerbate the biodeterioration of substrates. However, the light-triggered mechanisms that cause changes in the growth of the phototrophs remain unknown. Environmental proteomics could be used to provide information about the changes in the SAB metabolism under stress inflicted by nocturnal lighting. Here, laboratory-produced SABs, composed of Chlorophyta, Streptophyta and Cyanobacteriota, were subjected to three types of lighting used for monuments: cool white, warm white and amber + green (potentially with a biostatic effect). A control without light (i.e. darkness) was also included for comparison. The nocturnal lighting impaired the capacity of the SABs to decompose superoxide radicals and thus protect themselves from oxidative stress. Cool white and warm white light both strongly affected the proteomes of the SABs and reduced the total peptide content, with the extent of the reduction depending on the genera of the organisms involved. Analysis of the photo-damaging effect of amber + green light on the biofilm metabolism revealed a negative impact on photosystems I and II and production of photosystem antenna protein-like, as well as a triggering effect on protein metabolism (synthesis, folding and degradation). This research provides, for the first-time, a description of the proteomic changes induced by lighting on SABs colonising illuminated monuments in urban areas.
PXD038882	39572534	Multimodal single cell-resolved spatial proteomics reveal pancreatic tumor heterogeneity. 	Multimodal single-cell resolved spatial proteomics reveal pancreatic tumor heterogeneity	Cell-type proteomics, Label-free quantification, Pancreatic cancer, Spatial proteomics, Tumor microenvironment	Despite the advances in antibody-guided cell typing and mass spectrometry-based proteomics, their integration is hindered by challenges for processing rare cells in the heterogeneous tissue context. Here, we introduce Spatial and Cell-type Proteomics (SCPro), which combines multiplexed imaging and flow cytometry with ion exchange-based protein aggregation capture technology to characterize spatial proteome heterogeneity with single-cell resolution. The SCPro is employed to explore the pancreatic tumor microenvironment and reveals the spatial alternations of over 5000 proteins by automatically dissecting up to 100 single cells guided by multi-color imaging of centimeter-scale formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue slide. To enhance cell-type resolution, we characterize the proteome of 14 different cell types by sorting up to 1000 cells from the same tumor, which allows us to deconvolute the spatial distribution of immune cell subtypes and leads to the discovery of subtypes of regulatory T cells. Together, the SCPro provides a multimodal spatial proteomics approach for profiling tissue proteome heterogeneity.
PXD047011	39572596	Multi-layered proteomics identifies insulin-induced upregulation of the EphA2 receptor via the ERK pathway which is dependent on low IGF1R level. 	Multilayered-proteomics analysis of insulin signaling in insulin sensitive and resistant HepG2 IGF1R KO cell line	Interactome, hepatoma cell line, insulin receptor, insulin resistance, label-free DIA LC-MS/MS, phosphoproteomics	Insulin resistance impairs the cellular insulin response, and often precedes metabolic disorders, like type 2 diabetes, impacting an increasing number of people globally. Understanding the molecular mechanisms in hepatic insulin resistance is essential for early preventive treatments. To elucidate changes in insulin signal transduction associated with hepatocellular resistance, we employed a multi-layered mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach focused on insulin receptor (IR) signaling at the interactome, phosphoproteome, and proteome levels in a long-term hyperinsulinemia-induced insulin-resistant HepG2 cell line with a knockout of the insulin-like growth factor 1 receptor (IGF1R KO). The analysis revealed insulin-stimulated recruitment of the PI3K complex in both insulin-sensitive and -resistant cells. Phosphoproteomics showed attenuated signaling via the metabolic PI3K-AKT pathway but sustained extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) activity in insulin-resistant cells. At the proteome level, the ephrin type-A receptor 2 (EphA2) showed an insulin-induced increase in expression, which occurred through the ERK signaling pathway and was concordantly independent of insulin resistance. Induction of EphA2 by insulin was confirmed in additional cell lines and observed uniquely in cells with high IR-to-IGF1R ratio. The multi-layered proteomics dataset provided insights into insulin signaling, serving as a resource to generate and test hypotheses, leading to an improved understanding of insulin resistance.
PXD037708	39572740	Tau filaments are tethered within brain extracellular vesicles in Alzheimer's disease. 	Short tau filaments are packaged into extracellular vesicles in Alzheimer's disease brain	Extracellular Vesicles, Tau	The abnormal assembly of tau protein in neurons is a pathological hallmark of multiple neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Assembled tau associates with extracellular vesicles (EVs) in the central nervous system of individuals with AD, which is linked to its clearance and prion-like propagation. However, the identities of the assembled tau species and EVs, as well as how they associate, are not known. Here, we combined quantitative mass spectrometry, cryo-electron tomography and single-particle cryo-electron microscopy to study brain EVs from individuals with AD. We found tau filaments composed mainly of truncated tau that were enclosed within EVs enriched in endo-lysosomal proteins. We observed multiple filament interactions, including with molecules that tethered filaments to the EV limiting membrane, suggesting selective packaging. Our findings will guide studies into the molecular mechanisms of EV-mediated secretion of assembled tau and inform the targeting of EV-associated tau as potential therapeutic and biomarker strategies for AD.
PXD056387	39572928	Lipopolysaccharide Imprinted Polymers for Specific Recognition of Bacterial Outer Membrane Vesicles. 	Lipopolysaccharide Imprinted Polymers for Specific Recognition of Bacterial Outer Membrane Vesicles	Lipopolysaccharide, Molecularly imprinted polymers, Outer membrane vesicles	Outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) secreted by bacteria are emerging diagnostic markers for bacterial infection or disease detection due to their carriage of various signaling molecules. However, actual biological samples of patients are extremely complex, and applying OMVs to clinical diagnosis remains a major challenge. One of the major challenges is that there are still great difficulties in the enrichment of OMVs including tedious steps and lower concentration. And some commonly used exosome enrichment methods, such as ultracentrifugation, still have some shortcomings. Herein, we introduce lipopolysaccharide (LPS) molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP) for efficient capturing and analyzing OMVs, enabling a novel approach to bacterial disease diagnosis based on biorecognition materials. LPS, as a unique structure of Gram-negative bacteria, also widely expressed on the surface of OMVs, which will form cyclic hydrogen bonds with functional monomers of MIP with affinity interactions. The prepared MIP efficiently can isolate OMVs from 100 muL of culture broth via specific affinity LPS in less than 40 min with a recovery rate of over 95%. Moreover, MIP exhibits good reusability, with almost identical enrichment performance after 5 repeated cycles, contributing to reducing experimental costs in both time and economy. The captured OMVs can be detected using Western blotting with target protein antibodies or in combination with proteomic analysis, providing a proteomic biomarker platform for early bacteria disease diagnosis.
PXD053294	39574316	A Study on the Inflammatory Response of the Brain in Neurosyphilis. 	A Study on the Inflammatory Response of the Brain in Neurosyphilis	Neurosyphilis, Treponema pallidum	Neurosyphilis (NS) is a clinical condition caused by infection of the central nervous system (CNS) by Treponema pallidum (Tp) that can lead to asymptomatic meningitis and more serious neurological diseases, such as dementia and blindness. However, current studies on the pathogenesis of NS are limited. Here, through the integration analysis of proteomics and single-cell transcriptomics, Toll-like/NF-kappaB signaling is identified as the key pathway involved in CNS damage caused by Tp. Moreover, monocyte-derived macrophages are key cells involved in the inflammatory response to Tp in the CNS of NS patients. In addition, it is found that inflammatory cells in peripheral blood may cause neurological damage through disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in individuals with NS. Notably, activation of the Toll-like/NF-kappaB signaling pathway, as well as dysregulation of neural function, is likewise validated in an in vitro NS brain organoid model. In conclusion, the results revealed the mechanisms of inflammation-mediated brain injury in Tp-induced NS and provided new ideas for the clinical treatment of Tp infection.
PXD056971	39574742	Proximity proteomics provides a new resource for exploring the function of Afadin and the complexity of cell-cell adherens junctions. 	Proximity proteomics provides a new resource for exploring the function of Afadin and the complexity of cell-cell adherens junctions	Afadin, BioID, cell-cell adherens junctions	The network of proteins at the interface between cell-cell adherens junctions and the actomyosin cytoskeleton provides robust yet dynamic connections that facilitate cell shape change and motility. While this was initially thought to be a simple linear connection via classic cadherins and their associated catenins, we now have come to appreciate that many more proteins are involved, providing robustness and mechanosensitivity. Defining the full network of proteins in this network remains a key objective in our field. Proximity proteomics provides a means to define these networks. Mammalian Afadin and its Drosophila homolog Canoe are key parts of this protein network, facilitating diverse cell shape changes during gastrulation and other events of embryonic morphogenesis. Here we report results of several proximity proteomics screens, defining proteins in the neighborhood of both the N- and C-termini of mammalian Afadin in the premier epithelial model, MDCK cells. We compare our results with previous screens done in other cell types, and with proximity proteomics efforts with other junctional proteins. These reveal the value of multiple screens in defining the full network of neighbors and offer interesting insights into the overlap in protein composition between different epithelial cell junctions. Summary Statement: Afadin BioID reveals new adherens junction proteins.
PXD054011	39575830	Quorum Quenching Lactonase Alters Virulence of Pectobacterium atrosepticum and Reduces Maceration in Potatoes. 	Proteome analysis of Pectobacterium atrosepticum cells and inhibition effect of exogeneous treatment with lactonase.	Pectobacterium, bacteria, lactonase, metabolism, phytopathogen, quenching, quorum sensing, soft rot, virulence	Pectobacterium atrosepticum is a soft rot phytopathogenic bacterium mainly infecting potatoes. The virulence of P. atrosepticum is controlled by quorum sensing (QS), a communication mechanism which enables bacteria to coordinate their behavior in a population density-dependent manner. Inhibiting QS has gained interest as a sustainable alternative to conventional treatments to control pathogens in agriculture. Here, we investigate the potential of a robust lactonase to inhibit P. atrosepticum virulence in vitro, combining phenotypic and proteomic studies. We report that exogenous lactonase treatment reduced the secretion of pectate lyase, cellulase, and polygalacturonase enzymes, leading to decreased virulence on potato tubers. Major changes in the P. atrosepticum proteome revealed that lactonase affects the abundance of proteins with various functions, including virulence. Taken as a whole, these results suggest that lactonase-mediated disruption of QS in P. atrosepticum is a promising strategy to limit P. atrosepticum infections.
PXD048132	39577566	Chemical glycoproteomic profiling in rice seedlings reveals N-glycosylation in the ERAD-L machinery. 	N-glycoproteome profiling of rice	MS/MS, Metabolic glycan labeling, N-Glycosylation, Rice	As a ubiquitous and essential posttranslational modification occurring in both plants and animals, protein N-linked glycosylation regulates various important biological processes. Unlike the well-studied animal N-glycoproteomes, the landscape of rice N-glycoproteome remains largely unexplored. Here, by developing a chemical glycoproteomic strategy based on metabolic glycan labeling (MGL), we report a comprehensive profiling of the N-glycoproteome in rice seedlings. The rice seedlings are incubated with N-azidoacetylgalactosamine (GalNAz) - a monosaccharide analog containing a bioorthogonal functional group - to metabolically label N-glycans, followed by conjugation with an affinity probe via click chemistry for enrichment of the N-glycoproteins. Subsequent mass spectrometry analyses identify a total of 403 N-glycosylation sites and 673 N-glycosylated proteins, which are involved in various important biological processes. In particular, the core components of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated protein degradation (ERAD) machinery are N-glycosylated, and the N-glycosylation is important for the ERAD-L function. This work not only provides an invaluable resource for studying rice N-glycosylation, but also demonstrates the applicability of MGL in glycoproteomic profiling for crop species.
PXD057330	39578428	The de novo design and synthesis of yeast chromosome XIII facilitates investigations on aging. 	The de novo design and synthesis of yeast chromosome XIII facilitates investigations on aging	RRN9, SCRaMbLE, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, aging regulators, replicative aging, synXIII	In the era of synthetic biology, design, construction, and utilization of synthetic chromosomes with unique features provide a strategy to study complex cellular processes such as aging. Herein, we successfully construct the 884 Kb synXIII of Saccharomyces cerevisiae to investigate replicative aging using these synthetic strains. We verify that up-regulation of a rRNA-related transcriptional factor, RRN9, positively influence replicative lifespan. Using SCRaMbLE system that enables inducible whole-genome rearrangement on synXIII, we obtain 20 SCRaMbLEd synXIII strains with extended lifespan. Transcriptome analysis reveal the expression of genes involve in global protein synthesis is up-regulated in longer-lived strains. We establish causal links between genotypic change and the long-lived phenotype via reconstruction of some key structural variations observed in post-SCRaMbLE strains and further demonstrate combinatorial effects of multiple aging regulators on lifespan extension. Our findings underscore the potential of synthetic yeasts in unveiling the function of aging-related genes.
PXD056776	39578473	Lysosomal "TRAP": a neotype modality for clearance of viruses and variants. 	Proteomic analysis of hydrolase levels in the lysosomes from macrophages stimulated with or without LPS via LC_MS	Hydrolase, LPS, Macrophage lysosome	The binding of viruses to host-entry factor receptors is an essential step for viral infection. Many studies have shown that macrophages can internalize viruses and degrade them in lysosomes for clearance in vivo. Inspired by these natural behaviors and using SARS-CoV-2 as a testbed, we harvest lysosomes from activated macrophages and anchor the protein-receptor ACE2 as bait, thus constructing a lysosomal "TRAP" (lysoTRAP) that selectively captures, internalizes, and eventually degrades SARS-CoV-2. Through experiments with cells, female mice, female hamsters, and human lung organoids, we demonstrate that lysoTRAP effectively clears SARS-CoV-2. Importantly, unlike therapeutic agents targeting SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, lysoTRAP remains effective against nine pseudotyped variants and the authentic Omicron variant, demonstrating its resistance to SARS-CoV-2 mutations. In addition to the protein-receptor ACE2, we also extend lysoTRAP with the saccharide-receptor sialic acid and verify its excellent antiviral effect against H1N1, highlighting the flexibility of our "TRAP" platform in fighting against various viruses.
PXD053879	39581990	Porin expression in clinical isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae: a comparison of SDS-PAGE and MALDI-TOF/MS and limitations of whole genome sequencing analysis. 	Porin expression in clinical isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae: a comparison of SDS-PAGE and MALDI-TOF/MS and limitations of whole genome sequencing analysis Porin expression in clinical isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae: a comparison of SDS-PAGE and MALD	LCMS/MS, klebsiella, porins	BACKGROUND: The permeability of the outer membrane barrier modulates the susceptibility of microorganisms to antimicrobial agents. Loss or structural alterations of porins contribute to decreased antibiotic concentration of multiple antimicrobial agents. Precise definition of porin profiles is of critical importance to understand the role of porins in antimicrobial resistance. The objectives of this study are to compare the expression patterns of major outer membrane proteins (OMP) of clinical isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae obtained with Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionization Time-Of-Flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF/MS), with those obtained with sodium-dodecyl-sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), and to correlate porin expression patterns with the sequences of porins genes defined with whole genome sequencing (WGS). METHODS: The OMP profiles of 26 clinical isolates of K. pneumoniae and of strain ATCC 13883 (wild-type) and ATCC 700603 (producing SHV-18) have been determined using both SDS-PAGE and MALDI-TOF/MS. SDS-PAGE was performed using both homemade and commercial gels, and protein bands were identified by liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. A rapid extraction method was used to analyse OMPs by MALDI-TOF/MS. The sequences of porin genes were obtained by WGS and mutations were defined by BLAST. RESULTS: Same results were obtained for all strains either using SDS-PAGE or MALDI-TOF/MS. SDS-PAGE showed protein bands of ~ 35, ~36, and ~ 37 kDa, identified as OmpA, OmpK36 and OmpK35, respectively. By MALDI-TOF/MS, peaks at ~ 35,700 (OmpA), ~ 37,000 (OmpK35), and ~ 38,000 (OmpK36) m/z were detected. ompK35 was intact in nine wild-type isolates and was truncated in 13 isolates, but OmpK35 was not observed in 3 isolates without mutations in ompK35. One point mutation was detected in another isolate and multiple mutations were detected in the remaining isolate. ompK36 was truncated in two isolates lacking this protein and presented one point mutation (n = 1) or multiple mutations in the remaining isolates. CONCLUSION: MALDI-TOF/MS was reliable for porin detection, but because of the complex regulation of porin genes, WGS cannot always anticipate protein expression, as observed with SDS-PAGE and MALDI-TOF/MS.
PXD057880	39582024	Zfp260 choreographs the early stage osteo-lineage commitment of skeletal stem cells. 	Zfp260 choreographs the early stage lineage commitment of skeletal stem cells	Zfp260, lineage commitment, osteogenesis, skeletal stem cell	The initial fine-tuning processes are crucial for successful bone regeneration, as they guide skeletal stem cells through progenitor differentiation toward osteo- or chondrogenic fate. While fate determination processes are well-documented, the mechanisms preceding progenitor commitment remain poorly understood. Here, we identified a transcription factor, Zfp260, as pivotal for stem cell maturation into progenitors and directing osteogenic differentiation. Zfp260 is markedly up-regulated as cells transition from stem to progenitor stages; its dysfunction causes lineage arrest at the progenitor stage, impairing bone repair. Zfp260 is required for maintaining chromatin accessibility and regulates Runx2 expression by forming super-enhancer complexes. Furthermore, the PKCalpha kinase phosphorylates Zfp260 at residues Y173, S182, and S197, which are essential for its functional activity. Mutations at these residues significantly impair its functionality. These findings position Zfp260 as a vital factor bridging stem cell activation with progenitor cell fate determination, unveiling a element fundamental to successful bone regeneration.
PXD040263	39582067	Enhancing mitochondrial one-carbon metabolism is neuroprotective in Alzheimer's disease models. 	Mitochondrial folate one-carbon metabolism moderates Alzheimer's disease pathology	Alzheimers disease, Drosophila, amyloid-beta, mitochondria	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of age-related dementia. In AD, the death of neurons in the central nervous system is associated with the accumulation of toxic amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) and mitochondrial dysfunction. Mitochondria are signal transducers of metabolic and biochemical information, and their impairment can compromise cellular function. Mitochondria compartmentalise several pathways, including folate-dependent one-carbon (1C) metabolism and electron transport by respiratory complexes. Mitochondrial 1C metabolism is linked to electron transport through complex I of the respiratory chain. Here, we analysed the proteomic changes in a fly model of AD by overexpressing a toxic form of Abeta (Abeta-Arc). We found that expressing Abeta-Arc caused alterations in components of both complex I and mitochondrial 1C metabolism. Genetically enhancing mitochondrial 1C metabolism through Nmdmc improved mitochondrial function and was neuroprotective in fly models of AD. We also found that exogenous supplementation with the 1C donor folinic acid improved mitochondrial health in both mammalian cells and fly models of AD. We found that genetic variations in MTHFD2L, the human orthologue of Nmdmc, were linked to AD risk. Additionally, Mendelian randomisation showed that increased folate intake decreased the risk of developing AD. Overall, our data suggest enhancement of folate-dependent 1C metabolism as a viable strategy to delay the progression and attenuate the severity of AD.
PXD055137	39585118	Comparative Proteome-Wide Abundance Profiling of Yeast Strains Deleted for Cdc48 Adaptors. 	Comparative proteome-wide abundance profiling of yeast strains deleted for Cdc48 adaptors	Cdc48, S. cerevisiae, TMT proteomics, UBX domain-containing proteins, Ubiquitin Proteasome System	The yeast ATPase Cdc48 (known as p97/VCP in human cells) plays an important role in the Ubiquitin Proteasome System. VCP is essential for cancer cell proliferation, and its dysregulation has been implicated in several neurodegenerative diseases. Cdc48 functions by extracting ubiquitylated proteins from membranes, protein complexes and chromatin by often facilitating their proteasomal degradation. Specific adaptors or cofactors, primarily belonging to the UBX domain-containing protein family (which has seven members in Saccharomyces cerevisiae) recruit Cdc48 to ubiquitylated proteins. Here, we employed sample multiplexing-based quantitative mass spectrometry to profile global protein abundance in p97 adaptor deletion strains, specifically comparing seven single deletion strains of UBX domain-containing proteins and the Cuz1 deletion strain, which belongs to the zinc finger AN1-type domain protein family. We observed that each strain showed unique sets of differentially abundant proteins compared to the wild type. Our analysis also revealed a role for Ubx3 in maintaining wild type levels of mitochondrial proteins. Overall, we identified ~1400 differentially abundant proteins in the absence of a specific Cdc48 adaptor. This unique dataset offers a valuable resource for studying the functions of these adaptors, aiming to achieve a better understanding of the cellular processes regulated by Cdc48 itself and to deepen our understanding of the Ubiquitin Proteasome System.
PXD050080	39585364	Enhanced cell survival in prepubertal testicular tissue cryopreserved with membrane lipids and antioxidants rich cryopreservation medium. 	Enhanced Cell Survival in Prepubertal Testicular Tissue Cryopreserved with Membrane Lipids and Antioxidants Rich Cryopreservation Medium	Fertility preservation, Membrane integrity., Oncofertility, Spermatogonial germ cells	The present study explores the advantages of enriching the freezing medium with membrane lipids and antioxidants in improving the outcome of prepubertal testicular tissue cryopreservation. For the study, testicular tissue from Swiss albino mice of prepubertal age group (2 weeks) was cryopreserved by slow freezing method either in control freezing medium (CFM; containing DMSO and FBS in DMEM/F12) or test freezing medium (TFM; containing soy lecithin, phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylethanolamine, cholesterol, vitamin C, sodium selenite, DMSO and FBS in DMEM/F12 medium) and stored in liquid nitrogen for at least one week. The tissues were thawed and enzymatically digested to assess viability, DNA damage, and oxidative stress in the testicular cells. The results indicate that TFM significantly mitigated freeze-thaw-induced cell death, DNA damage, and lipid peroxidation compared to tissue cryopreserved in CFM. Further, a decrease in Cyt C, Caspase-3, and an increase in Gpx4 mRNA transcripts were observed in tissues frozen with TFM. Spermatogonial germ cells (SGCs) collected from tissues frozen with TFM exhibited higher cell survival and superior DNA integrity compared to those frozen in CFM. Proteomic analysis revealed that SGCs experienced a lower degree of freeze-thaw-induced damage when cryopreserved in TFM, as evident from an increase in the level of proteins involved in mitigating the heat stress response, transcriptional and translational machinery. These results emphasize the beneficial role of membrane lipids and antioxidants in enhancing the cryosurvival of prepubertal testicular tissue offering a significant stride towards improving the clinical outcome of prepubertal testicular tissue cryopreservation.
PXD057379	39585490	Stress-induced premature senescence in high five cell cultures: a principal factor in cell-density effects. 	Stress-Induced Premature Senescence in High Five Cell Cultures: A Principal Factor in Cell-Density Effects	cell density effect, mitochondrial dysfunction, stress-induced premature senescence, time-series analysis, transcriptome	The Baculovirus Expression Vector System (BEVS) is highly valued in vaccine development, protein engineering, and drug metabolism research due to its biosafety, operational convenience, rapid scalability, and capacity for self-assembling virus-like particles. However, increasing cell density at the time of inoculation severely compromises the production capacity of BEVS, resulting in the "cell density effect". This study aimed to explore the mechanisms of the cell density effect through time-series analysis of transcriptomes and proteomes, with the goal of overcoming or alleviating the decline in productivity caused by increased cell density. The dynamic analysis of the omics of High Five cells under different CCI (cell density at infection) conditions showed that the impact of the "cell density effect" increased over time, particularly affecting genetic information processing, error repair, protein expression regulation, and material energy metabolism. Omics analysis of the growth stage of High Five cells showed that after 36 h of culture (cell density of about 1 x 10(6) cells/mL), the expression of ribosome-related proteins decreased, resulting in a rapid decrease in protein synthesis capacity, which was a key indicator of cell aging. Senescence verification experiments showed that cells began to show obvious early aging characteristics after 36 h, resulting in a decrease in the host cell's ability to resist stress. Overexpression and siRNA inhibition studies showed that the ndufa12 gene was a potential regulatory target for restricting the "cell density effect". Our results suggested that stress-induced premature senescence in High Five cell cultures, resulting in reduced energy metabolism and protein synthesis capabilities, was a critical factor contributing to cell density effects, and ultimately affecting virus production. In conclusion, this study provided new insights into managing virus production limitations due to cell density effects and offered innovative strategies to mitigate the adverse effects of cellular aging in biomanufacturing technologies.
PXD051261	39587097	Streptolysin O accelerates the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin. 	AE-MS to profile SLO-human plasma protein interactome landscape; HDX-MS and XL-MS to study protein interaction and dynamics of PLG-SLO	AE-MS, HDX-MS, Streptococcus pyogenes, XL-MS, plasminogen, streptolysin O	Group A Streptococcus (GAS) is a human-specific bacterial pathogen that can exploit the plasminogen-plasmin fibrinolysis system to dismantle blood clots and facilitate its spread and survival within the human host. In this study, we use affinity-enrichment mass spectrometry to decipher the host-pathogen protein-protein interaction between plasminogen and streptolysin O, a key cytolytic toxin produced by GAS. This interaction accelerates the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin by both the host tissue-type plasminogen activator and streptokinase, a bacterial plasminogen activator secreted by GAS. Integrative structural mass spectrometry analysis shows that the interaction induces local conformational shifts in plasminogen. These changes lead to the formation of a stabilised intermediate plasminogen-streptolysin O complex that becomes significantly more susceptible to proteolytic processing by plasminogen activators. Our findings reveal a conserved and moonlighting pathomechanistic function for streptolysin O that extends beyond its well-characterised cytolytic activity.
PXD052083	39587297	GOLPH3 and GOLPH3L maintain Golgi localization of LYSET and a functional mannose 6-phosphate transport pathway. 	GOLPH3 and GOLPH3L maintain Golgi localization of LYSET and a functional mannose 6-phosphate transport pathway	COPI vesicles, Golgi apparatus, glycosyltransferase secretion, intramembrane proteolysis, lysosomes, mannose 6-phophate tagging	Glycosylation, which plays an important role in modifying lipids and sorting of proteins, is regulated by asymmetric intra-Golgi distribution and SPPL3-mediated cleavage of Golgi enzymes. We found that cells lacking LYSET/TMEM251, a retention factor for Golgi N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase (GNPT), display SPPL3-dependent hypersecretion of the Golgi membrane protein B4GALT5. We demonstrate that in wild-type cells B4GALT5 is tagged with mannose 6-phosphate (M6P), a sorting tag typical of soluble lysosomal hydrolases. Hence, M6P-tagging of B4GALT5 may represent a novel degradative lysosomal pathway. We also observed B4GALT5 hypersecretion and prominent destabilization of LYSET-GNPT complexes, impaired M6P-tagging, and disturbed maturation and trafficking of lysosomal enzymes in multiple human cell lines lacking the COPI adaptors GOLPH3 and GOLPH3L. Mechanistically, we identified LYSET as a novel, atypical client of GOLPH3/GOLPH3L. Thus, by ensuring the cis-Golgi localization of the LYSET-GNPT complex and maintaining its Golgi polarity, GOLPH3/GOLPH3L is essential for the integrity of the M6P-tagging machinery and homeostasis of lysosomes.
PXD045369	39587633	GDF15 propeptide promotes bone metastasis of castration-resistant prostate cancer by augmenting the bone microenvironment. 	Identification of GDPP in cancer secretome	prostate cancer cell lines, secretome	BACKGROUND: Bone metastasis (BM) is a common and fatal condition in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). However, there are no useful blood biomarkers for CRPC with BM, and the mechanism underlying BM is unclear. In this study, we investigated precise blood biomarkers for evaluating BM that can improve the prognosis of patients with CRPC. METHODS: We comprehensively examined culture supernatants from four prostate cancer (PCa) cell lines using Orbitrap mass spectrometry to identify specific proteins secreted abundantly by PCa cells. The effects of this protein to PCa cells, osteoblasts, osteoclasts were examined, and BM mouse model. In addition, we measured the plasma concentration of this protein in CRPC patients for whom bone scan index (BSI) by bone scintigraphy was performed. RESULTS: A total of 2,787 proteins were identified by secretome analysis. We focused on GDF15 propeptide (GDPP), which is secreted by osteoblasts, osteoclasts, and PCa cells. GDPP promoted the proliferation, invasion, and migration of PC3 and DU145 CRPC cells, and GDPP aggravated BM in a mouse model. Importantly, GDPP accelerated bone formation and absorption in the bone microenvironment by enhancing the proliferation of osteoblasts and osteoclasts by upregulating individual transcription factors such as RUNX2, OSX, ATF4, NFATc1, and DC-STAMP. In clinical settings, including a total of 416 patients, GDPP was more diagnostic of BM than prostate-specific antigen (PSA) (AUC = 0.92 and 0.78) and the seven other blood biomarkers (alkaline phosphatase, lactate dehydrogenase, bone alkaline phosphatase, tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase 5b, osteocalcin, procollagen I N-terminal propeptide and mature GDF15) in patients with CRPC. The changes in BSI over time with systemic treatment were correlated with that of GDPP (r = 0.63) but not with that of PSA (r = -0.16). CONCLUSIONS: GDPP augments the tumor microenvironment of BM and is a novel blood biomarker of BM in CRPC, which could lead to early treatment interventions in patients with CRPC.
PXD044085	39588782	Chemotherapeutic agents and leucine deprivation induce codon-biased aberrant protein production in cancer. 	Chemotherapy-induced codon-specific immunopeptidome diversification	aberrant protein, immunopeptidomics, leucine, mRNA translation, neoepitopes, ribosomal stalling, tryptophan	Messenger RNA (mRNA) translation is a tightly controlled process frequently deregulated in cancer. Key to this deregulation are transfer RNAs (tRNAs), whose expression, processing and post-transcriptional modifications are often altered in cancer to support cellular transformation. In conditions of limiting levels of amino acids, this deregulated control of protein synthesis leads to aberrant protein production in the form of ribosomal frameshifting or misincorporation of non-cognate amino acids. Here, we studied leucine, an essential amino acid coded by six different codons. Surprisingly, we found that leucine deprivation leads to ribosomal stalling and aberrant protein production in various cancer cell types, predominantly at one codon, UUA. Similar effects were observed after treatment with chemotherapeutic agents, implying a shared mechanism controlling the downstream effects on mRNA translation. In both conditions, a limitation in the availability of tRNALeu(UAA) for protein production was shown to be the cause for this dominant effect on UUA codons. The induced aberrant proteins can be processed and immune-presented as neoepitopes and can direct T-cell killing. Altogether, we uncovered a novel mode of interplay between DNA damage, regulation of tRNA availability for mRNA translation and aberrant protein production in cancer that could be exploited for anti-cancer therapy.
PXD057003	39589832	Beclin 1 prevents ISG15-mediated cytokine storms to secure fetal hematopoiesis and survival. 	Beclin 1 prevents ISG15-mediated cytokine storms to secure fetal hematopoiesis  and survival	Beclin 1, Fetal liver	Proper control of inflammatory responses is essential for embryonic development, but the underlying mechanism is poorly understood. Here, we show that under physiological conditions, inactivation of ISG15, an inflammation amplifier, is associated with the interaction of Beclin 1 (Becn1), via its ECD domain, with STAT3 in the major fetal hematopoietic organ of mice. Conditional loss of Becn1 caused sequential dysfunction and exhaustion of fetal liver hematopoietic stem cells, leading to lethal inflammatory cell-biased hematopoiesis in the fetus. Molecularly, the absence of Becn1 resulted in the release of STAT3 from Becn1 tethering and subsequent phosphorylation and translocation to the nucleus, which in turn directly activated the transcription of ISG15 in fetal liver hematopoietic cells, coupled with increased ISGylation and production of inflammatory cytokines, whereas inactivating STAT3 reduced ISG15 transcription and inflammation but improved hematopoiesis potential, and further silencing ISG15 mitigated the above collapse in the Becn1 null hematopoietic lineage. The Becn1-STAT3-ISG15 axis remains functional in autophagy-disrupted fetal hematopoietic organs. These results suggest that Becn1, in an autophagy-independent manner, secures hematopoiesis and survival of the fetus by directly inhibiting STAT3-ISG15 activation to prevent cytokine storms. Our findings highlight a previously undocumented role of Becn1 in governing ISG15 to safeguard the fetus.
PXD051088	39589923	DEP-1 is a brain insulin receptor phosphatase that prevents the simultaneous activation of counteracting metabolic pathways. 	DEP-1 is a novel brain insulin receptor phosphatase and disallows the development of futile cycles	DEP-1, brain, insulin	A healthy metabolism relies on precise regulation of anabolic and catabolic pathways. While insulin deficiency impairs anabolism, insulin resistance in obesity causes metabolic dysfunction, especially via altered brain insulin receptor (IR) activity. Density-enhanced phosphatase 1 (DEP-1) negatively modulates the IR in peripheral tissues. Our study shows that DEP-1 is an insulin-regulated gene, dysregulated in obesity, and uncovers its role in brain insulin signaling, impacting both anabolic and catabolic pathways. Neuro-2a cells lacking DEP-1 demonstrated heightened IR phosphorylation upon acute insulin stimulation. This coincided with simultaneous AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation, which governs catabolic pathways, due to increased phospholipase C-gamma 1 signaling. These opposing pathways in male DEP-1 forebrain-specific knockout mice resulted in elevated lipolysis in white adipose tissue and fat oxidation in brown adipose tissue, with enhanced sympathetic activation and beta-adrenergic receptor expression. In conclusion, DEP-1 deficiency causes the simultaneous activation of IR and AMPK signaling in the brain, with enhanced sympathetic activity in adipose tissues.
PXD047971	39592862	Multiomics analysis of Staphylococcus aureus ST239 strains resistant to virulent Herelleviridae phages. 	Proteomic response of Staphylococcus aureus to bacteriophage infection. A systems approach to determining the response of Staphylococcus aureus to infection with Herelleviridae bacteriophage.	Bacteriophage, Herelleviridae, Staphylococcus aureus, proteome analysis	In the context of the antimicrobial therapy crisis, the significance of studying and implementing alternative treatment methods, particularly phage therapy, is increasingly evident. This study aimed to investigate the resistance of clinical Staphylococcus aureus ST239 strains to Herelleviridae phages through comparative genomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics. Analysis of resistant and sensitive S. aureus strains showed that resistant strains form a separate cluster on the phylogenetic tree, suggesting unique genetic traits underlying their phage resistance. Further in-depth analysis of the resistant SA191 strain infected with Herelleviridae phage, compared to an uninfected control, unveiled significant changes in the transcription of 462 genes (271^ 191v) at 5 min and 504 genes (276^ 228v) at 30 min post-infection. Proteomic analysis identified 184 differentially abundant proteins (41^ 143v) at 30 min. Functional analysis highlighted changes in the glycolysis, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, and transport systems; notable, changes were also observed in the transcription of prophage genes. Despite the observed metabolic shifts, classical resistance mechanisms related to teichoic acid synthesis, restriction-modification, and toxin-antitoxin systems were not identified, suggesting the existence of other mechanism. Our study contributes to the elucidation of S. aureus resistance mechanisms against Herelleviridae phages, highlighting the intricate nature of bacterial defense mechanisms.
PXD057586	39593143	Human VCP mutant ALS/FTD microglia display immune and lysosomal phenotypes independently of GPNMB. 	Human VCP mutant ALS/FTD microglia display immune and lysosomal phenotypes independently of GPNMB	ALS, FTD, iPSC, microglia	BACKGROUND: Microglia play crucial roles in maintaining neuronal homeostasis but have been implicated in contributing to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD). However, the role of microglia in ALS/FTD remains incompletely understood. METHODS: Here, we generated highly enriched cultures of VCP mutant microglia derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) to investigate their cell autonomous and non-cell autonomous roles in ALS pathogenesis. We used RNA-sequencing, proteomics and functional assays to study hiPSC derived VCP mutant microglia and their effects on hiPSC derived motor neurons and astrocytes. RESULTS: Transcriptomic, proteomic and functional analyses revealed immune and lysosomal dysfunction in VCP mutant microglia. Stimulating healthy microglia with the inflammatory inducer lipopolysaccharide (LPS) showed partial overlap with VCP mutant microglia in their reactive transformation. LPS-stimulated VCP mutant microglia displayed differential activation of inflammatory pathways compared with LPS-stimulated healthy microglia. Conserved gene expression changes were identified between VCP mutant microglia, SOD1 mutant mice microglia, and postmortem ALS spinal cord microglial signatures, including increased expression of the transmembrane glycoprotein GPNMB. While knockdown of GPNMB affected inflammatory and phagocytosis processes in microglia, this was not sufficient to ameliorate cell autonomous phenotypes in VCP mutant microglia. Secreted factors from VCP mutant microglia were sufficient to activate the JAK-STAT pathway in hiPSC derived motor neurons and astrocytes. CONCLUSIONS: VCP mutant microglia undergo cell autonomous reactive transformation involving immune and lysosomal dysfunction that partially recapitulate key phenotypes of microglia from other ALS models and post mortem tissue. These phenotypes occur independently of GPNMB. Additionally, VCP mutant microglia elicit non cell autonomous responses in motor neurons and astrocytes involving the JAK-STAT pathway.
PXD053240	39593238	Dynamic Cellular Proteome Remodeling during SARS-CoV-2 Infection. Identification of Plasma Protein Readouts. 	Time-based quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of A549-ACE2 cells during SARS-CoV-2 infection	COVID-19, SARS-CoV-2, virus-host interaction	The outbreak of COVID-19, led to an ongoing pandemic with devastating consequences for the global economy and human health. With the global spread of SARS-CoV-2, multidisciplinary initiatives were launched to explore new diagnostic, therapeutic, and vaccination strategies. From this perspective, proteomics could help to understand the mechanisms associated with SARS-CoV-2 infection and to identify new therapeutic options. A TMT-based quantitative proteomics and phosphoproteomics analysis was performed to study the proteome remodeling of human lung alveolar cells expressing human ACE2 (A549-ACE2) after infection with SARS-CoV-2. Detectability and the prognostic value of selected proteins was analyzed by targeted PRM. A total of 6802 proteins and 6428 phospho-sites were identified in A549-ACE2 cells after infection with SARS-CoV-2. The differential proteins here identified revealed that A549-ACE2 cells undergo a time-dependent regulation of essential processes, delineating the precise intervention of the cellular machinery by the viral proteins. From this mechanistic background and by applying machine learning modeling, 29 differential proteins were selected and detected in the serum of COVID-19 patients, 14 of which showed promising prognostic capacity. Targeting these proteins and the protein kinases responsible for the reported phosphorylation changes may provide efficient alternative strategies for the clinical management of COVID-19.
PXD054887	39593795	Systemic Lipid Metabolism Dysregulation as a Possible Driving Force of Fracture Non-Unions? 	Systemic Lipid Metabolism Dysregulation as a Possible Driving Force of Fracture Nonunions? A Concomitant Proteomic and Metabolomic Pilot Study	Bone fracture, pseudoarthrosis	INTRODUCTION: Non-unions are fractures that do not heal properly, resulting in a false joint formation at the fracture site. This condition leads to major health issues and imposes a burden on national healthcare systems. The etiology of non-unions is still not fully understood; therefore, we aimed to identify potential systemic factors that may contribute to their formation. MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional concomitant proteomic and metabolomic pilot study of blood plasma in patients with non-unions (N = 11) and compared them with patients with bone fracture in the normal active healing phase (N = 12). RESULTS: We found five significantly upregulated proteins in the non-union group: immunoglobulin heavy variable 3-74, immunoglobulin lambda variable 2-18, low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 4, zinc-alpha-2-glycoprotein, and serum amyloid A-1 protein; and we found one downregulated protein: cystatin-C. The metabolomic study found differences in alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism pathways between two groups. CONCLUSIONS: The combined results of proteomic and metabolomic analyses suggest that the dysregulation of lipid metabolism may contribute to non-union formation.
PXD056754	39594597	Differences in Uniquely Identified Peptides Between ddaPASEF and diaPASEF. 	Differences of uniquely identified peptides between ddaPASEF and diaPASEF	ddaPASEF, diaPASEF	Recent advancements in mass spectrometry-based proteomics have made it possible to conduct comprehensive protein analysis. In particular, the emergence of the data-independent acquisition (DIA) method powered by machine learning has significantly improved protein identification efficiency. However, compared with the conventional data-dependent acquisition (DDA) method, the degree to which peptides are uniquely identified by DIA and DDA has not been thoroughly examined. In this study, we identified over 10,000 proteins using the DDA and DIA methods and analyzed the characteristics of unique peptides identified by each method. Results showed that the number of peptides uniquely identified by DDA and DIA using the same column type was 19% and 32%, respectively, with shorter peptides preferentially detected by the DIA method. In addition, more DIA-specific peptides were identified, especially during the first 10% of elution time, and the overall 1/K0 and m/z shifted toward smaller values than in the DDA method. Furthermore, comparing the phosphorylation and ubiquitination proteome profiles with those of whole-cell lysates by DDA showed that the enrichment of post-translationally modified peptides resulted in wider m/z and 1/K0 ranges. Notably, the ubiquitin peptide-enriched samples displayed lower m/z values than the phospho-proteome. These findings suggest a bias in the types of peptides identified by the acquisition method and the importance of setting appropriate ranges for DIA based on the post-translational modification of peptide characteristics.
PXD051676	39595019	Cellular Characteristics and Protein Signatures of Human Adipose Tissues from Donors With or Without Advanced Coronary Artery Disease. 	Human PVAT and SubQ whole adipose from CABG and VR patients	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP), SWATH, adipose, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, obesity	Background/Objectives: Perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) exerts a paracrine effect on blood vessels and our objective was to understand PVAT molecular signatures related to cardiovascular disease. Methods: We studied two groups: those undergoing mitral valve repair/replacement (VR, n = 16) and coronary artery bypass graft (CABG, n = 38). VR donors did not have coronary artery disease, whereas CABG donors had advanced coronary artery disease. Clinical and tissue pathologies and proteomics from adipose tissue were assessed. Results: Donors undergoing VR had a lower body mass index (p = 0.01), HbA1C (p = 0.0023), and incidence of diabetes (p = 0.022) compared to CABG. VR donors were overall healthier, with higher cardiac function compared to CABG donors, based on ejection fraction. Although adipose histopathology between groups was not markedly different, PVAT had smaller and more adipocytes compared to subcutaneous adipose tissues. These differences were validated by whole specimen automated morphological analysis, and anisotropy analysis showed small (2.8-7.5 mum) and large (22.8-64.4 mum) scale differences between perivascular and subcutaneous adipose tissue from CABG donors, and small scale changes (2.8-7.5 mum) between perivascular and subcutaneous adipose tissue from VR donors. Distinct protein signatures in PVAT and subcutaneous adipose tissue include those involved in secretion, exosomes and vesicles, insulin resistance, and adipocyte identity. Comparing PVAT and subcutaneous adipose tissue from CABG donors, there were 82 significantly different proteins identified with log fold change >= 0.3 or <=-0.3 (p < 0.05). Using this threshold, there were 36 differences when comparing PVAT and subcutaneous adipose tissue from VR donors, 58 differences when comparing PVAT from CABG or VR donors, and 55 when comparing subcutaneous adipose tissue from CABG vs. VR donors. Conclusions: Routine histopathology cannot differentiate between PVAT from donors with or without coronary artery disease, but multiscale anisotropy analysis discriminated between these populations. Our mass spectrometry analysis identified a cohort of proteins that distinguish between adipose depots, and are also associated with the presence or absence of coronary artery disease.
PXD050494	39596223	The Coexistence of Klebsiella pneumoniae and Candida albicans Enhanced Biofilm Thickness but Induced Less Severe Neutrophil Responses and Less Inflammation in Pneumonia Mice Than K. pneumoniae Alone. 	Coexistence of Klebsiella pneumonia biofilms with Candida albicans in an acute pneumonia	Biofilm formation, Candida albicans, Klebsiella pneumonia, Neutrophil extracellular traps, Pneumonia	Due to the possible coexistence of Klebsiella pneumoniae (KP) and Candida albicans (CA), strains of KP and CA with biofilm production properties clinically isolated from patients were tested. The production of biofilms from the combined organisms (KP+CA) was higher than the biofilms from each organism alone, as indicated by crystal violet and z-stack immunofluorescence. In parallel, the bacterial abundance in KP + CA was similar to KP, but the fungal abundance was higher than CA (culture method), implying that CA grows better in the presence of KP. Proteomic analysis was performed to compare KP + CA biofilm to KP biofilm alone. With isolated mouse neutrophils (thioglycolate induction), KP + CA biofilms induced less prominent responses than KP biofilms, as determined by (i) neutrophilic supernatant cytokines (ELISA) and (ii) neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs), using immunofluorescent images (neutrophil elastase, myeloperoxidase, and citrullinated histone 3), peptidyl arginine deiminase 4 (PAD4) expression, and cell-free DNA. Likewise, intratracheal KP + CA in C57BL/6 mice induces less severe pneumonia than KP alone, as indicated by organ injury (serum creatinine and alanine transaminase) (colorimetric assays), cytokines (ELISA), bronchoalveolar lavage fluid parameters (bacterial culture and neutrophil abundances using a hemocytometer), histology score (H&E stains), and NETs (immunofluorescence on the lung tissue). In conclusion, the biofilm biomass of KP + CA was mostly produced from CA with less potent neutrophil activation and less severe pneumonia than KP alone. Hence, fungi in the respiratory tract might benefit the host in some situations, despite the well-known adverse effects of fungi.
PXD056978	39596304	High-Throughput Tear Proteomics via In-Capillary Digestion for Biomarker Discovery. 	Rapid Tear Proteomics via In-Capillary Digestion for Biomarker Discovery	1. tear proteomics, 2. tear biomarker, 3. biomarker discovery, 4. point-of-care testing, 5. POCT, 6. LC-MS/MS	Tear fluid has emerged as a valuable resource for biomarker discovery; however, the limited sample volume, the dynamic composition, and the variability introduced by collection methods all present significant challenges to the analysis and interpretation of the results. A majority of tear proteomic studies have utilized Schirmer strips for tear fluid collection; however, microcapillary collection can provide a superior collection method for proteomic studies when analysis procedures are optimized. We developed a novel, high-throughput in-capillary trypsin digestion workflow that requires as little as 0.5 muL of tear fluid for bottom-up shotgun proteomics. The use of a single microcentrifuge tube for both tear collection and sample processing simplifies sample handling and minimizes both the sample loss and experimental errors associated with sample transfers. This streamlined approach also reduces sample processing time to under 2 h before overnight trypsin digestion, compared to the 5-8 h required by the other methods. Our method uses liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to identify more proteins with greater efficiency than the existing techniques. With this workflow, we identified 500-800 proteins per 0.5 muL sample without peptide fractionation, allowing for at least three technical replicates. The results showed a four-fold increase in the number of proteins identified in the samples. This approach validates the use of microcapillary tear collection, and the innovative processing technique significantly increases the throughput of tear proteomics for biomarker discovery.
PXD044045	39596469	Gla Rich Protein (GRP) Mediates Vascular Smooth Muscle Cell (VSMC) Osteogenic Differentiation, Extracellular Vesicle (EV) Calcification Propensity, and Immunomodulatory Properties. 	Proteomic characterization of extracellular vesicles (EVs) released by primary human vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) under calcification stress	Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), vascular calcification	Vascular calcification (VC) is a complex process involving vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) osteogenic differentiation, inflammation, and extracellular vesicle (EV) calcification and communication networks. Gla rich protein (GRP) is a calcification inhibitor involved in most of these processes. However, the molecular mechanism of GRP in VC and the specific characteristics, cargo, and functionality of calcifying EVs require further elucidation. Here, we use a combination of human ex vivo aortic fragments and primary vascular smooth muscle cell (VSMC) models to obtain new information on GRP function in VC and EVs released by VSMCs. We demonstrate that GRP inhibits VSMC osteogenic differentiation through downregulation of bone-related proteins and upregulation of mineralization inhibitors, with decreased mineral crystallinity in EVs deposited into the tissue extracellular matrix (ECM). EVs isolated by ultracentrifugation at 30K and 100K from the cell media (CM) and deposited in the ECM from control (CTR) and mineralizing (MM) VSMCs were biochemically, physically, and proteomically characterized. Four different EV populations were identified with shared markers commonly present in all EVs but with unique protein cargo and specific molecular profiles. Comparative proteomics identified several regulated proteins specifically loaded into MM EV populations associated with multiple processes involved in VC. Functional analysis demonstrated that 30K and 100K ECM-MM EVs with higher calcium and lower GRP levels induced macrophage inflammation. Our findings reinforce the functional relevance of GRP in multiple VC processes and suggest that ECM EVs released under calcification stress function as a new signaling axis on the calcification-inflammation cycle.
PXD056329	39598420	Identification of Estrogen-Responsive Proteins in Mouse Seminal Vesicles Through Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics. 	Identification of Estrogen-Responsive Proteins in the Mouse Seminal Vesicle by Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics	7beta-estradiol, bioinformatics, biomarker discovery, endocrine disruption, male reproductive system, mouse seminal vesicle, therapeutic effects	Background: Although estrogenic compounds promise therapeutic potential in treating various conditions, concerns regarding their endocrine-disrupting effects have been raised. Current methodologies for screening estrogenicity in rodent models are limited to the female-specific uterotrophic bioassay. Studies have reported enlargement of the seminal vesicles in orchiectomized males treated with estrogens. However, identifying estrogenicity strictly through changes in wet weights is uninformative regarding the molecular mechanisms of these agents. Therefore, protein-based biomarkers can complement and improve the sensitivity of weight-based assessments. To this end, we present a discovery-driven proteomic analysis of 17beta-estradiol's effects on the seminal vesicles. Methods: We treated orchidectomized mice with the hormone for five days and used the vehicle-treated group as a control. Seminal vesicles were analyzed by shotgun approach using data-dependent nanoflow liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and label-free quantification. Proteins found to be differentially expressed between the two groups were processed through a bioinformatics pipeline focusing on pathway analyses and assembly of protein interaction networks. Results: Out of 668 identified proteins that passed rigorous validation criteria, 133 were regulated significantly by 17beta-estradiol. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis((R)) linked them to several hormone-affected pathways, including those associated with immune function such as neutrophil degranulation. The altered protein interaction networks were also related to functions including endocrine disruption, abnormal metabolism, and therapeutic effects. Conclusions: We identified several potential biomarkers for estrogenicity in mouse seminal vesicles, many of them not previously linked with exogenous 17beta-estradiol exposure.
PXD057473	39600146	Proteomic Analysis of Tissue Proteins Related to Lateral Lymph Node Metastasis in Papillary Thyroid Microcarcinoma. 	Mass spectrometry of different lymph node metastasis states in papillary thyroid carcinoma	Biomarker, Lateral lymph node metastasis, Papillary thyroid microcarcinoma	Patients with lateral lymph node metastasis (LLNM) may experience higher locoregional recurrence rates and poorer prognoses compared to those without LLNM, highlighting the need for effective preoperative stratification to reliably assess risk LLNM. In this study, we collected PTMC samples from Peking Union Medical College Hospital and employed data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry proteomics technique to identify protein profiles in PTMC tissues with and without LLNM. Pseudo temporal analysis and single sample gene set enrichment analysis were conducted in combination with The Cancer Genome Atlas Thyroid Carcinoma for functional coordination analysis and the construction of a prediction model based on random forest. Non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) clustering was utilized to classify molecular subtypes of PTMC. Our findings revealed that the differential activation of pathways such as MAPK and PI3K was critical in enhancing the lateral lymph node metastatic potential of PTMC. We successfully screened biomarkers via machine learning and public databases, creating an effective prediction model for metastasis. Additionally, we explored the mechanism of metastasis-associated PTMC subtypes via NMF clustering. These insights into LLNM mechanisms in PTMC may contribute to future biomarker screening and the identification of therapeutic targets.
PXD053626	39600157	GlycoPCT: Pressure Cycling Technology-Based Quantitative Glycoproteomics Reveals Distinctive N-Glycosylation in Human Liver Biopsy Samples of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease. 	GlycoPCT: quantitative glycoproteomics based on pressure cycling technology reveals distinctive N-glycosylation in human liver with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease	Glycoproteomics, LC-MS/MS., N-glycosylation, Non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, Pressure cycling technology	Protein N-glycosylation is vital in the human liver and influences functions such as lipid metabolism, apoptosis, and inflammation. However, site-specific N-glycosylation patterns and variations in liver biopsy samples between healthy individuals and those with nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) remain incompletely characterized, primarily due to the limitations of current clinical glycoproteomic methods, including a large demand for clinical samples, low efficiency of tissue protein extraction, and a low recovery rate of intact N-glycopeptides (IGPs). To address this issue, we developed GlycoPCT, a quantitative glycoproteomic method based on pressure cycling technology. It enables efficient recovery of IGPs and accurate analysis of trace liver biopsy samples. Our research revealed a total of 4,459 unique IGPs and 361 glycans from 758 glycoproteins. High-mannose type, complex type, fucosylation type, and sialylation type N-glycans were significantly upregulated in the NAFLD group (p < 0.001, t test). Notably, we also identified 182 upregulated IGPs from 67 proteins (p < 0.05, FC > 1.50) and 108 downregulated IGPs from 44 proteins (p < 0.05, FC < 0.67) in the NAFLD group. Furthermore, we highlighted an essential acute phase glycoprotein, alpha-1-acid glycoprotein 1 (A1TA), which is synthesized in the liver and plays a significant role in NAFLD progression. These novel glyco-signatures provide crucial clues for the diagnosis and pathogenesis of NAFLD.
PXD042406	39602297	Identification of coilin interactors reveals coordinated control of Cajal body number and structure. 	Identification of coilin interactors reveals coordinated control of Cajal body number and substructure		The cell nucleus contains distinct biomolecular condensates that form at specific genetic loci, organize chromosomes in 3D space, and regulate RNA processing. Among these, Cajal bodies (CBs) require key "scaffolding" proteins for their assembly, which is not fully understood. Here, we employ proximity biotinylation, mass spectrometry, and functional screening to comprehensively identify and test the functions of CB components. We document 144 protein interactors of coilin, of which 70 were newly detected, and establish 25 players needed for CB assembly and/or maintenance. Surprisingly, the depletion of nine coilin interactors-mostly constituents of the 60S ribosome (RPLs)-increased CB number and caused subdomains defined by coilin and the survival motor neuron protein (SMN) to merge. These phenotypes were traceable to altered nuclear levels of dimethylarginine. Our data implicate RPL24 and other players in the regulation of CBs by modulating posttranslational modifications. Moreover, the prevalence of transcription factors among the identified components highlights roles for gene activity in CB assembly and nuclear positioning.
PXD055398	39602499	A Kinetic Scout Approach Accelerates Targeted Protein Degrader Development. 	A Kinetic Scout Approach Accelerates  Targeted Protein Degrader Discovery	PROTAC, degraders, kinase, kinetics, targeted protein degradation, ubiquitin, vhl	Bifunctional molecules such as targeted protein degraders induce proximity to promote gain-of-function pharmacology. These powerful approaches have gained broad traction across academia and the pharmaceutical industry, leading to an intensive focus on strategies that can accelerate their identification and optimization. We and others have previously used chemical proteomics to map degradable target space, and these datasets have been used to develop and train multiparameter models to extend degradability predictions across the proteome. In this study, we now turn our attention to develop generalizable chemistry strategies to accelerate the development of new bifunctional degraders. We implement lysine-targeted reversible-covalent chemistry to rationally tune the binding kinetics at the protein-of-interest across a set of 25 targets. We define an unbiased workflow consisting of global proteomics analysis, IP/MS of ternary complexes and the E-STUB assay, to mechanistically characterize the effects of ligand residence time on targeted protein degradation and formulate hypotheses about the rate-limiting step of degradation for each target. Our key finding is that target residence time is a major determinant of degrader activity, and this can be rapidly and rationally tuned through the synthesis of a minimal number of analogues to accelerate early degrader discovery and optimization.
PXD051005	39604493	Exploring molecular mechanisms of postoperative delirium through multi-omics strategies in plasma exosomes. 	Biomarkers in Plasma Exosomes Reveal Molecular Pathways of Postoperative Delirium: New Horizons from Diagnosis to Treatment	biomarker, blood-brain barrier (BBB)., exosome, metabolomics, neuroinflammation, postoperative delirium (POD)	Currently, the diagnosis of delirium is solely based on clinical observation, lacking objective diagnostic tools, and the regulatory networks and pathological mechanisms behind it are not yet fully understood. Exosomes have garnered considerable interest as potential biomarkers for a variety of illnesses. This research aimed to delineate both the proteomic and metabolomic landscapes inherent to exosomes, assessing their diagnostic utility in postoperative delirium (POD) and understanding the underlying pathophysiological frameworks. Integrated analyses of proteomics and metabolomics were conducted on exosomes derived from plasma of individuals from both the non-postoperative delirium (NPOD) control group and the POD group. Subsequently, the study utilized the Connectivity Map (CMap) methodology for the identification of promising small-molecule drugs and carried out molecular docking assessments to explore the binding affinities with the enzyme MMP9 of these identified molecules. We identified significant differences in exosomal metabolites and proteins between the POD and control groups, highlighting pathways related to neuroinflammation and blood-brain barrier (BBB) integrity. Our CMap analysis identified potential small-molecule therapeutics, and molecular docking studies revealed two compounds with high affinity to MMP9, suggesting a new therapeutic avenue for POD. This study highlights MMP9, TLR2, ICAM1, S100B, and glutamate as key biomarkers in the pathophysiology of POD, emphasizing the roles of neuroinflammation and BBB integrity. Notably, molecular docking suggests mirin and orantinib as potential inhibitors targeting MMP9, providing new therapeutic avenues. The findings broaden our understanding of POD mechanisms and suggest targeted strategies for its management, reinforcing the importance of multidimensional biomarker analysis and molecular targeting in POD intervention.
PXD047354	39604559	Integrating proteomics and metabolomics to evaluate impact of semen collection techniques on the quality and cryotolerance of goat semen. 	Comparative proteomics of fresh sperm and frozen sperm collected by electric stimulation method and Artificial vagina method	PRM, TMT, proteomicssperm	Results of artificial insemination (AI) are affected by changes in sperm quality and the function throughout collection and preservation procedures. Proteome and metabolome alterations of sperm treated with the different procedures in goat, however, aren't fully understood. To this end, we sought to investigate the impacts of rectal probe electrostimulation (EE) and artificial vagina (AV) semen collection methods on the quality and the cryotolerance of goat sperm, with additional focus on proteomic and metabolomic analyses. Semen samples were collected from Yunshang black goats and categorized into four groups: fresh sperm collected via AV (XAZ), fresh sperm collected via EE (XEZ), frozen sperm post-AV collection (DAZ) and frozen sperm post-EE collection (DEZ). Four comparisons (XAZ vs. XEZ, DAZ vs. XAZ, DEZ vs. XEZ, DAZ vs. DEZ) were performed, respectively. This study first evaluated sperm motility, acrosome integrity, plasma membrane integrity, mitochondrial activity, and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels. The results indicated that there were no significant differences in fresh sperm quality parameters between the EE and AV methods. However, notable differences emerged post-cryopreservation. Specifically, the AV method proved more advantageous in preserving the motility, integrities of acrosome and plasma membrane, mitochondrial activity of frozen sperm compared to the EE method. Through the multi-omics approaches, a total of 210 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) related to sperm characteristics and function were identified across the four comparations. Moreover, 32 differentially abundant metabolites (DAMs) were detected. Comprehensive bioinformatics analysis underscored significant molecular pathways in the co-enrichment of DAPs and DAMs, particularly focusing on the citrate cycle, ROS, oxidative phosphorylation, and glycine, serine, and threonine metabolism etc. We elucidated the differential impacts of AV and EE collection methods on the quality and cryotolerance of goat semen from omics perspectives, which offer a critical foundation for further exploration into optimizing semen collection and cryopreservation techniques in goat breeding program.
PXD057336	39605433	Adaptations in gut Bacteroidales facilitate stable co-existence with their lytic bacteriophages. 	Transcriptional, Proteomic, and Metabolic Adaptations of Gut Bacteroides and Parabacteroides Hosts to Persistent Bacteriophage Infection In Vitro	Bacteroides, Parabacteroides, bacteriophages, cohabitation, crAssphages, gut microbiome, phage-bacteria interaction	Background: Bacteriophages (phages) and bacteria within the gut microbiome persist in long-term stable coexistence. These interactions are driven by eco-evolutionary dynamics, where bacteria employ a variety of mechanisms to evade phage infection, while phages rely on counterstrategies to overcome these defences. Among the most abundant phages in the gut are the crAss-like phages that infect members of the Bacteroidales, in particular Bacteroides . In this study, we explored some of the mechanisms enabling the co-existence of four phage-Bacteroidales host pairs in vitro using a multi-omics approach (transcriptomics, proteomics and metabolomics). These included three Bacteroides species paired with three crAss-like phages ( Bacteroides intestinalis and phicrAss001, Bacteroides xylanisolvens and phicrAss002, and an acapsular mutant of Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron with DAC15), and Parabacteroides distasonis paired with the siphovirus phiPDS1. Results: We show that phase variation of individual capsular polysaccharides (CPSs) is the primary mechanism promoting phage co-existence in Bacteroidales, but this is not the only strategy. Alternative resistance mechanisms, while potentially less efficient than CPS phase variation, can be activated to support bacterial survival by regulating gene expression and resulting in metabolic adaptations, particularly in amino acid degradation pathways. These mechanisms, also likely regulated by phase variation, enable bacterial populations to persist in the presence of phages, and vice versa . An acapsular variant of B. thetaiotaomicron demonstrated broader transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic changes, supporting the involvement of additional resistance mechanisms beyond CPS variation. Conclusions: This study advances our understanding of long-term phage-host interaction, offering insights into the long-term persistence of crAss-like phages and extending these observations to other phages, such as phiPDS1. Knowledge of the complexities of phage-bacteria interactions is essential for designing effective phage therapies and improving human health through targeted microbiome interventions.
PXD057301	39607828	Unveiling the physiological impact of ESCRT-dependent autophagosome closure by targeting the VPS37A ubiquitin E2 variant-like domain. 	Proximity proteomics of phagophore-associated proteins using APEX2-LC3B in VPS37A KO U-2 OS cells	APEX2-LC3B, Autophagosomal membrane, Phagophore, VPS37A KO U-2 OS cells	Macroautophagy (autophagy) involves the formation of phagophores that mature into autophagosomes. The impact of inhibiting autophagosome closure remains unclear. Here, we report the generation and analysis of mice with impaired autophagosome closure by targeting the ubiquitin E2 variant-like (UEVL) beta strands of the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) I subunit VPS37A. The VPS37A UEVL mutation (Delta43-139) impairs bulk autophagic flux without disrupting ESCRT-I complex assembly and endosomal function. Homozygous mutant mice exhibit signs of autophagy impairment, including p62/SQSTM1 and ubiquitinated protein accumulation, neuronal dysfunction, growth retardation, antioxidant gene upregulation, and tissue abnormalities. However, about half of the mutant neonates survive to adulthood without severe liver injury. LC3 proximity proteomics reveals that the VPS37A UEVL mutation leads to active TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) accumulation on phagophores, resulting in increased p62 phosphorylation and inclusion formation. These findings reveal a previously unappreciated role of LC3-conjugated phagophores in facilitating protein aggregation and sequestration, potentially alleviating proteotoxicity.
PXD054355	39609423	Blood matters: the hematological signatures of Coronavirus infection. 	LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis of pharyngeal swabs and plasma from MHV-infected and uninfected mice	LC-M/MS, MHV, Mus musculus, pharyngeal swabs, plasma	Recent developments have broadened our perception of SARS-CoV-2, indicating its capability to affect the body systemically beyond its initial recognition as a mere respiratory pathogen. However, the pathways of its widespread are not well understood. Employing a dual-modality approach, we integrated findings from a Murine Hepatitis Virus (MHV) infection model with corroborative clinical data to investigate the pervasive reach of Coronaviruses. The novel presence of viral particles within red blood cells (RBCs) was demonstrated via high-resolution transmission electron microscopy, with computational modeling elucidating a potential heme-mediated viral entry mechanism via Spike protein affinity. Our data affirm viral localization in RBCs, suggesting heme moieties as facilitators for cellular invasion. Exacerbation of MHV pathology upon hemin administration, contrasted with chloroquine-mediated amelioration, underscoring a heme-centric pathway in disease progression. These observations extend the paradigm of Coronavirus pathogenicity to include hemoprotein interactions. This study casts new light on the systemic invasion capabilities of Coronaviruses, linking RBC hemoproteins with viral virulence. The modulation of disease severity through heme-interacting agents heralds a promising avenue for COVID-19 therapeutics. Our findings propose a paradigm shift in the treatment approach, leveraging the virus-heme interplay as a strategic hinge for intervention.
PXD056836	39609437	PTPN23-dependent ESCRT machinery functions as a cell death checkpoint. 	PTPN23-dependent ESCRT machinery functions as a cell death checkpoint in restraining multiple cell death pathways	BioID, PTPN23	Cell death plasticity is crucial for modulating tissue homeostasis and immune responses, but our understanding of the molecular components that regulate cell death pathways to determine cell fate remains limited. Here, a CRISPR screen of acute myeloid leukemia cells identifies protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 23 (PTPN23) as essential for survival. Loss of PTPN23 activates nuclear factor-kappa B, apoptotic, necroptotic, and pyroptotic pathways by causing the accumulation of death receptors and toll-like receptors (TLRs) in endosomes. These effects are recapitulated by depletion of PTPN23 co-dependent genes in the endosomal sorting complex required for transport (ESCRT) pathway. Through proximity-dependent biotin labeling, we show that NAK-associated protein 1 interacts with PTPN23 to facilitate endosomal sorting of tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1), sensitizing cells to TNF-alpha-induced cytotoxicity. Our findings reveal PTPN23-dependent ESCRT machinery as a cell death checkpoint that regulates the spatiotemporal distribution of death receptors and TLRs to restrain multiple cell death pathways.
PXD054877	39610227	Decreases in K63 Polyubiquitination in the Hippocampus Promote the Formation of Contextual Fear Memories in Both Males and Females. 	K63 polyubiquitin targets in the hippocampus of male and female rats following contextual fear conditioning	K63, hippocampus, memory, sex difference, ubiquitin	Over 90% of protein degradation in eukaryotic cells occurs through the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). In this system, the ubiquitin protein can bind to a substrate on its own or it can form a chain with multiple ubiquitin molecules in a process called polyubiquitination. There are 8 different sites on ubiquitin at which polyubiquitin chains can be formed, the second most abundant of which, lysine-63 (K63), is independent of the degradation process, though this mark has rarely been studied in the brain or during learning-dependent synaptic plasticity. Recently, we found that knockdown of K63 polyubiquitination in the amygdala selectively impaired contextual fear memory formation in female, but not male, rats. It is unknown, however, whether the sex-specific requirement of K63 polyubiquitination occurs in other brain regions that are required for contextual fear memory formation, including the hippocampus. Here, we found that CRISPR-dCas13-mediated knockdown of K63 polyubiquitination in the hippocampus significantly enhanced contextual fear memory in both male and female rats, a result that is in striking contrast to what we observed in the amygdala for both sex-specificity and directionality. Using unbiased proteomics, we found that following fear conditioning K63 polyubiquitination was primarily decreased at target proteins in the hippocampus of both males and females. Importantly, the target proteins and downstream functional pathways influenced by K63 polyubiquitination changes diverged significantly by sex. Together, these data suggest that unlike what we previously reported in the amygdala, decreases in K63 polyubiquitination in the hippocampus are a critical regulator of memory formation in the hippocampus of both males and females.
PXD056863	39610248	An engineered cereblon optimized for high throughput screening and molecular glue discovery. 	Engineering CRBN for high throughput screening and molecular glue discovery	CoIP, FlagCRBN, WCP	The majority of clinical degraders utilize an immunomodulatory imide drug (IMiD)-based derivative that directs their target to the E3 ligase receptor cereblon (CRBN); however, identification of IMiD molecular glue substrates has remained underexplored. To tackle this, we design human CRBN constructs, which retain all features for ternary complex formation, while allowing generation of homogenous and cost-efficient expression in E. coli. Extensive profiling of the construct shows it to be the "best of both worlds" in terms of binding activity and ease of production. We next designed the "Enamine focused IMiD library" and demonstrated applicability of the construct to high-throughput screening, identifying binders with high potency, ligand efficiency, and specificity. Finally, we adapt our construct for proof of principle glue screening approaches enabling IMiD cellular interactome determination. Coupled with our IMiD binding landscape the methods described here should serve as valuable tools to assist discovery of next generation CRBN glues.
PXD050470	39610256	Global Profiling of Protein Lactylation in Human Hippocampi. 	Global profiling of protein lactylation in Human hippocampi	human hippocampus, lactylation, posttranslational modification	PURPOSE: The hippocampus has long been associated with cognition and memory function, the implications of lysine lactylation (Kla), a recently identified post-translational modification (PTM), in the role of the hippocampus remain largely unexplored. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: An LC-MS/MS bottom-up proteomics analysis of three human hippocampal tissue samples was applied to profile the lactylation map in human hippocampi under normal physiological conditions. RESULTS: We identified 2579 quantifiable Class I lactylated sites in 853 proteins, of which contained four types of modification motifs. Cellular localization analysis implies that a majority of lactylated proteins were distributed in the cytoplasm. Functional enrichment analysis showed that lactylated proteins were mainly involved in energy metabolic pathways. In addition, we found that the lactylation on histones exhibits a certain degree of conservation across different tissues. Compared with previously reported lactylation databases, 213 lactylated proteins were identified for the first time in this study. CONCLUSION AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The first global lactylated proteins atlas of human hippocampi was reported in this study. Our work provides a reliable foundation for further research on lactylation in the hippocampus under physiological conditions.
PXD054930	39610319	Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry Reveals Mechanistic Insights into RNA Oligonucleotide-Mediated Inhibition of TDP-43 Aggregation. 	HDX-MS analysis of TDP-43 with RNA oligonucleotides	HDX-MS, RNA, TDP-43	Deposits of aggregated TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) in the brain are associated with several neurodegenerative diseases. It is well established that binding of RNA/DNA to TDP-43 can prevent TDP-43 aggregation, but an understanding of the structure(s) and conformational dynamics of TDP-43, and TDP-43-RNA complexes, is lacking, including knowledge of how the solution environment modulates these properties. Here, we address this challenge using hydrogen-deuterium exchange-mass spectrometry. In the presence of RNA olignoucleotides, we observe protection from exchange in the RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains of TDP-43 and the linker region between the RRM domains, consistent with nucleic acid binding modulating interdomain interactions. Intriguingly, at elevated salt concentrations, the extent of protection from exchange is reduced in the RRM domains when bound to an RNA sequence derived from the 3' UTR of the TDP-43 mRNA (CLIP34NT) compared to when bound to a (UG)6 repeat sequence. Under these conditions, CLIP34NT is no longer able to prevent TDP-43 aggregation. This suggests that a salt-induced structural rearrangement occurs when bound to this RNA, which may play a role in facilitating aggregation. Additionally, upon RNA binding, we identify differences in exchange within the short alpha-helical region located in the C-terminal domain (CTD) of TDP-43. These allosterically altered regions may influence the ability of TDP-43 to aggregate and fine-tune its RNA binding repertoire. Combined, these data provide additional insights into the intricate interplay between TDP-43 aggregation and RNA binding, an understanding of which is crucial for unraveling the molecular mechanisms underlying TDP-43-associated neurodegeneration.
PXD056769	39613769	Specific surface-modified iron oxide nanoparticles trigger complement-dependent innate and adaptive antileukaemia immunity. 	Proteomic profiling reveals the impact of surface functionalization on the protein corona formed on superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles	LC-MS, iron oxide nanoparticles, protein corona	Considerable advances have been achieved in the application of nanomaterials for immunotherapies, yet the precise immune effects induced by protein corona remain elusive. Here, we explore the formation mechanism and immune regulation process of protein corona in acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) mouse models using commercialized iron oxide nanoparticles (IONPs), with different surface modifications, including an FDA-approved variant. Using macrophages depleted or Complement Component 3 (C3) knockout mice, we demonstrate that carboxymethyl dextran-coated IONP (IONP-COOH) reduces leukaemia burden. Mechanistically, IONP-COOH indirectly binds to C3b after activating the complement alternative pathway, subsequently enhancing phagocytosis of macrophages and activating adaptive immunity mediated by complement corona. While aminated dextran-coated IONPs directly absorb C3b and activate the lectin pathway, leading to immune cell exhaustion. Our findings suggest that IONP-COOH may serve as an immune activator for AML treatment, offering a promising approach to developing therapeutic nanomaterials by leveraging surface chemistry to enhance immunotherapy.
PXD050384	39615487	Persistence of spike protein at the skull-meninges-brain axis may contribute to the neurological sequelae of COVID-19. 	SARS-CoV-2 Spike Protein in the Skull-Meninges-Brain Axis	Brain, COVID-19, DIA, Meninges, SARS-CoV-2, Skull	SARS-CoV-2 infection is associated with long-lasting neurological symptoms, although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Using optical clearing and imaging, we observed the accumulation of SARS-CoV-2 spike protein in the skull-meninges-brain axis of human COVID-19 patients, persisting long after viral clearance. Further, biomarkers of neurodegeneration were elevated in the cerebrospinal fluid from long COVID patients, and proteomic analysis of human skull, meninges, and brain samples revealed dysregulated inflammatory pathways and neurodegeneration-associated changes. Similar distribution patterns of the spike protein were observed in SARS-CoV-2-infected mice. Injection of spike protein alone was sufficient to induce neuroinflammation, proteome changes in the skull-meninges-brain axis, anxiety-like behavior, and exacerbated outcomes in mouse models of stroke and traumatic brain injury. Vaccination reduced but did not eliminate spike protein accumulation after infection in mice. Our findings suggest persistent spike protein at the brain borders may contribute to lasting neurological sequelae of COVID-19.
PXD052580	39615636	Fibrillin-1 G234D mutation in the hybrid1 domain causes tight skin associated with dysregulated elastogenesis and increased collagen cross-linking in mice. 	Secretome analysis of mouse fibroblast	DIA, fibroblast, secretome	Fibrillin-1, an extracellular matrix (ECM) protein encoded by the FBN1 gene, serves as a microfibril scaffold crucial for elastic fiber formation and homeostasis in pliable tissue such as the skin. Aside from causing Marfan syndrome, some mutations in FBN1 result in scleroderma, marked by hardened and thicker skin which limits joint mobility. Here, we describe a tight skin phenotype in the Fbn1(G234D/G234D) mice carrying a corresponding variant of FBN1 in the hybrid1 domain that was identified in a patient with familial aortic dissection. Unlike scleroderma, skin thickness and collagen fiber abundance do not change in the Fbn1(G234D/G234D) mutant skin. Instead, increased collagen cross-links were observed. In addition, short elastic fibers were sparsely located underneath the panniculus muscle layer, and an abundance of thin, aberrant elastic fibers was increased within the subcutaneous fascia, which may have tightened skin attachment to the underlying skeletal muscle. Structurally, Fbn1(G234D/G234D) microfibrils have a disrupted shoulder region that shares similarities with hybrid1 deletion mutant microfibrils. We then demonstrate the consequence of fibrillin-1 G234D mutation on dermal fibroblast functions. Mutant primary fibroblasts produce fewer elastic fibers, exhibit slower migration and increased cell stiffness. Moreover, secretome from mutant fibroblasts are marked by enhanced secretion of ECM, ECM-modifying enzymes, proteoglycans and cytokines, which are pro-tissue repair/fibrogenic. The transcriptome of mutant fibroblasts displays an increased expression of myogenic developmental and immune-related genes. Our study proposes that imbalanced ECM homeostasis due to a fibrillin-1 G234Dmutation impacts fibroblast properties with potential ramifications on skin function.
PXD058394	39615799	The ataxia-telangiectasia disease protein ATM controls vesicular protein secretion via CHGA and microtubule dynamics via CRMP5. 	The ataxia-telangiectasia disease protein ATM controls vesicular protein secretion via CHGA and microtubule dynamics via CRMP5	Immobilized metal affinity chromatography, PhosphoScan, chloroquine, coimmunoprecipitation, differential ultracentrifugation, label-free mass spectrometry, sodium arsenite, taxol	The autosomal recessive disease ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T) presents with cerebellar degeneration, immunodeficiency, radiosensitivity, capillary dilatations, and pulmonary infections. Most symptoms outside the nervous system can be explained by failures of the disease protein ATM as a Ser/Thr-kinase to coordinate DNA damage repair. However, ATM in adult neurons has cytoplasmic localization and vesicle association, where its roles remain unclear. Here, we defined novel ATM protein targets in human neuroblastoma cells, and filtered initial pathogenesis events in ATM-null mouse cerebellum. Profiles of global proteome and phosphoproteomics - both direct ATM/ATR substrates and overall phosphorylation changes - confirmed previous findings for NBN, MRE11, MDC1, CHEK1, EIF4EBP1, AP3B2, PPP2R5C, SYN1 and SLC2A1. Even stronger downregulation of ATM/ATR substrate phosphopeptides after ATM-depletion was documented for CHGA, EXPH5, NBEAL2 and CHMP6 as key factors of protein secretion and endosome dynamics, as well as for CRMP5, DISP2, PHACTR1, PLXNC1, INA and TPX2 as neurite extension factors. Prominent effects on semaphorin-CRMP5-microtubule signals and ATM association with CRMP5 were validated. As a functional consequence, microtubules were stabilized, and neurite retraction ensued. The impact of ATM on secretory granules confirms previous ATM-null cerebellar transcriptome findings. This study provides the first link of A-T neural atrophy to growth cone collapse and aberrant microtubule dynamics.
PXD069058	39617188	Exploring red blood cells as an antigen delivery system to modulate the immune response towards FVIII in hemophilia A. 	Exploring red blood cells as an antigen delivery system to modulate the immune response towards FVIII in hemophilia A	erythrocytes, factor VIII, hemophilia A, immunity, inhibitors	BACKGROUND: The main complication in hemophilia A treatment is the development of inhibitory antibodies against factor VIII (FVIII). Immune tolerance induction, the gold standard for eradicating anti-FVIII antibodies, is efficient in only 60-80% of cases. This underscores the need for more efficient induction of tolerance in hemophilia A patients with FVIII inhibitors. OBJECTIVES: In this study we explored whether red blood cells (RBCs) can be utilized as antigen delivery system to modulate the immune response against FVIII. METHODS: Two promiscuously HLA-DR presented peptides derived from the A2 and C1 domains of FVIII were fused to the TAT-cell penetrating peptide and incubated with RBCs. RESULTS: Biotinylated TAT-A2 and TAT-C1 peptides were found to interact with RBCs as shown by flow cytometry and imaging flow cytometry. Moreover, macrophages efficiently phagocytosed TAT-FVIII peptide-treated RBCs. Using mass spectrometry based immunopeptidomics we established that TAT-FVIII peptides were presented on MHC class II of macrophages that phagocytosed TAT-peptide pulsed RBCs. Specifically, the TAT-A2 peptide exhibited efficient processing and presentation on HLA-DR molecules. Importantly, incubation of TAT-C1 peptide treated RBCs loaded macrophages with a FVIII-specific T cell hybridoma led to a significant increase in IL-2 production, suggesting functional presentation of TAT-C1 derived peptides by macrophages. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that RBCs can serve as effective vehicle for the delivery of FVIII derived peptides to antigen presenting cells. The successful display of T cell epitopes on APC using ex vivo loaded RBC may be potentially utilized to modulate pathogenic immune responses such as observed in a subset of patients with hemophilia A.
PXD055730	39617757	BRAF inhibitors enhance erythropoiesis and treat anemia through paradoxical activation of MAPK signaling. 	BRAF inhibitors enhance erythropoiesis and treat anemia through paradoxical activation of MAPK	BRAF, BRAF inhibitors, MAPK pathway	Erythropoiesis is a crucial process in hematopoiesis, yet it remains highly susceptible to disruption by various diseases, which significantly contribute to the global challenges of anemia and blood shortages. Current treatments like erythropoietin (EPO) or glucocorticoids often fall short, especially for hereditary anemias such as Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA). To uncover new erythropoiesis-stimulating agents, we devised a screening system using primary human hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells (HSPCs). We discovered that BRAF inhibitors (BRAFi), commonly used to treat BRAF(V600E) melanoma, can unexpectedly and effectively promote progenitor cell proliferation by temporarily delaying erythroid differentiation. Notably, these inhibitors exhibited pronounced efficacy even under cytokine-restricted conditions and in patient samples of DBA. Mechanistically, although these BRAFi inhibit the MAPK cascade in BRAF(V600E) mutant cells, they paradoxically act as amplifiers in wild-type BRAF cells, potently enhancing the cascade. Furthermore, we found that while the oncogenic BRAF(V600E) mutation disrupts hematopoiesis and erythropoiesis through AP-1 hyperactivation, BRAFi minimally impact HSPC self-renewal and differentiation. In vivo studies have shown that BRAFi can enhance human hematopoiesis and erythropoiesis in severe immunodeficient mouse models and alleviate anemia in the Rpl11 haploinsufficiency DBA model, as well as other relevant anemia models. This discovery underscores the role of the MAPK pathway in hematopoiesis and positions BRAFi as a promising therapeutic option for improving hematopoietic reconstitution and treating anemias, including DBA.
PXD055008	39619432	The putative error prone polymerase REV1 mediates DNA damage and drug resistance in Candida albicans. 	A role for the putative error-prone polymerase REV1 in DNA damage and antifungal drug resistance in Candida albicans	Candida albicans, REV1, fungal	Antimicrobial-induced DNA damage, and subsequent repair via upregulation of DNA repair factors, including error-prone translesion polymerases, can lead to the increased accumulation of mutations in the microbial genome, and ultimately increased risk of acquired mutations associated with antimicrobial resistance. While this phenotype is well described in bacterial species, it is less thoroughly investigated amongst microbial fungi. Here, we monitor DNA damage induced by antifungal agents in the fungal pathogen Candida albicans, and find that commonly used antifungal drugs are able to induce DNA damage, leading to the upregulation of transcripts encoding predicted error-prone polymerases and related factors. We focus on REV1, encoding a putative error-prone polymerase, and find that while deleting this gene in C. albicans leads to increased sensitivity to DNA damage, it also unexpectedly renders cells more likely to incur mutations and evolve resistance to antifungal agents. We further find that deletion of REV1 leads to a significant depletion in the uncharacterized protein Shm1, which itself plays a role in fungal mutagenesis. Together, this work lends new insight into previously uncharacterized factors with important roles in the DNA damage response, mutagenesis, and the evolution of antifungal drug resistance.
PXD044178	39619542	Deep Crotonylproteomics Analysis of High-Altitude Exposure Hearts in Mice. 	Deep crotonylproteomics analysis of high-altitude exposure hearts in mice	crotonylation, heart, high altitude, metabolism, muscle	The potential molecular mechanisms of short-term adaptation and long-term structural deteriorations in the cardiac structure in response to high altitude remain not fully understood. This study aims to investigate changes in the crotonylproteome in the hearts of mice exposed to high altitude at different time points. The hearts were obtained from mice living at the lowland and 3, 10, and 30 days after arriving at a plateau. Crotonyllysolylated proteins were subsequently comprehensively evaluated. Among the identified 13,731 crotonyllysine sites, 11,140 were quantified. Furthermore, 1247 differentially expressed crotonyllysine sites on 764 proteins in 46 pathways were analyzed, and the results showed that the abundance of crotonylation increased with the increase of exposure time to altitude. Functional enrichment analysis showed that most of these significantly altered crotonylated proteins were enriched in the regulation of metabolism and myocardial function, indicating that these enriched biological processes may be involved in the acute adaptation and chronic remodeling of cardiac function and structural changes at a high altitude. Our study uncovers some crotonylation-affected processes and pathways in the heart's response to high-altitude exposure, giving novel insights into molecular processes of cardiac function and structure changes at high altitude (ProteomeXchange identifier: PXD044178).
PXD052313	39620638	Data-Independent Acquisition-Parallel Reaction Monitoring Acquisition Reveals Age-Dependent Alterations of the Lysosomal Proteome in a Mouse Model of Metachromatic Leukodystrophy. 	Data-independent Acquisition - Parallel Reaction Monitoring (DIA-PRM) Acquisition Reveals Alteration of Lysosomal Hydrolases in a Mouse Model of Metachromatic Leukodystrophy	DIA, MLD, PRM, lysosomes, targeted	For the reproducible analysis of peptides by mass spectrometry-based proteomics, data-independent acquisition (DIA) and parallel/multiple reaction monitoring (PRM/MRM) deliver unrivalled performance with respect to sensitivity and reproducibility. Both approaches, however, come with distinct advantages and shortcomings. While DIA enables unbiased whole proteome analysis, it shows limitations with respect to dynamic range and the quantification of low-abundant proteins. PRM, on the other hand, is ideally suited to reproducibly quantify selected proteins even if they are low-abundant, but no knowledge of the remaining sample is obtained. Here, we combine both methods into a mixed DIA-PRM acquisition approach, merging their benefits while operating at reduced machine run times and needed sample amounts. We demonstrate the feasibility of DIA-PRM by merging a scheduled PRM assay for 103 peptides, representing 59 low-abundant lysosomal hydrolases, with a DIA data acquisition scheme. After benchmarking DIA-PRM with mouse embryonic fibroblast (MEF) whole cell lysates, we use the approach to investigate age-related proteomic changes in brain tissues of a mouse model of metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD). This revealed an MLD-related progressive increase in distinct classes of lysosomal hydrolases as well as alterations of proteins related to myelin and cellular metabolism. All data are available via ProteomeXchange with PXD052313.
PXD056912	39620887	Oxidative modifications control aberrant tyrosine kinase activity. 	tyrosine kinase oxidation by gas plasma	RNS, ROS, non thermal plasma, receptor tyrosin kinase	Therapy resistance is a major reason for the fatal consequences of cancer. The tumor microenvironment (TME) often is associated with the production of excess reactive oxygen species (ROS). ROS are capable of introducing oxidative post-translational modifications (oxPTMs) to proteins targeted in cancer therapy, such as tyrosine kinases (TKs), and ROS could render their functionality. However, little is known about the occurrence or magnitude of such processes, partially because mimicking the TME producing several short-lived ROS types at once is technically challenging. Gas plasma technology, a partially ionized gas generating a multitude of ROS types simultaneously and at high concentrations, was used to model pro-oxidative conditions in the TME and study the functional consequences in three TKs (epidermal growth factor receptor, sarcoma, and vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2) targeted clinically. TKs dissolved in liquids were exposed to gas plasma, and a drastic reduction in their activity was observed. Hypothesizing that this was due to gas plasma-generated ROS, plasma-treated TKs were analyzed by high-resolution mass spectrometry for the type and quantity of oxPTM types using an in-house database. Preferred oxidation targets were identified as sulfur-containing and aromatic amino acids. OxPTMs were detected on amino acid residues that have important structural or catalytic functions in TKs, such as the adenosine triphosphate-binding site, but also on amino acid residues that are targets for therapeutic applications, such as TK inhibitors. While the practical relevance of these findings remains to be discovered, our results suggest that excessive ROS concentrations potentially contribute to TK activity reduction in the TME. The mass spectrometry data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD056912.
PXD055721	39621600	Identification and validation of ATP6V1G1-regulated phosphorylated proteins in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Analysis of phosphorylated proteins in ATP6V1G1 overexpressed hepatoma cells	ATP6V1G1, phosphorylated protein	V-ATPase Subunit G1 (ATP6V1G1) is one of the subunits of Vacuolar ATPases. Previous studies have indicated that ATP6V1G1 plays important roles in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and is associated with HCC progression. However, the effect of ATP6V1G1 in HCC requires further elucidation. The aim of the present study was to explore the roles of ATP6V1G1 in HCC and further decipher the detailed mechanism. To identify the phosphorylated proteins regulated by ATP6V1G1 in HCC, phosphoproteomics and LC-MS/MS analysis were performed on HepG2 with overexpression of ATP6V1G1 and empty vector. Western blotting was applied to validate the differentially expressed phosphorylated proteins (DEPPs). As a result, 163 DEPPs were identified by proteomics; two up-regulated phosphorylated proteins (p-RPS6(Ser235)) and (p-SQSTM1(Ser272)) and two down-regulated phosphorylated proteins (p-PDPK1(Ser241)) and (p-EEF2 (Ser57)) were validated. Taken together, this study highlighted the potential impact of ATP6V1G1 on tumor progression, which may be beneficial to liver cancer related basic research.
PXD045790	39621795	Flaviviruses induce ER-specific remodelling of protein synthesis. 	Microbiome-derived hydroxyphenyl propanoate promotes antitumour immunity by enhancing Gasdermin D cleavage in tumour-associated myeloid cells	Gasdermin D, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, THP1-Dual cells, TMT, hydroxuphenyl pyruvate, thermal profiling	Flaviviruses orchestrate a unique remodelling of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to facilitate translation and processing of their polyprotein, giving rise to virus replication compartments. While the signal recognition particle (SRP)-dependent pathway is the canonical route for ER-targeting of nascent cellular membrane proteins, it is unknown whether flaviviruses rely on this mechanism. Here we show that Zika virus bypasses the SRP receptor via extensive interactions between the viral non-structural proteins and the host translational machinery. Remarkably, Zika virus appears to maintain ER-localised translation via NS3-SRP54 interaction instead, unlike other viruses such as influenza. Viral proteins engage SRP54 and the translocon, selectively enriching for factors supporting membrane expansion and lipid metabolism while excluding RNA binding and antiviral stress granule proteins. Our findings reveal a sophisticated viral strategy to rewire host protein synthesis pathways and create a replication-favourable subcellular niche, providing insights into viral adaptation.
PXD042072	39622905	Borrelia PeptideAtlas: A proteome resource of common Borrelia burgdorferi isolates for Lyme research. 	Borrelia PeptideAtlas: A proteome resource of common Borrelia burgdorferi isolates for Lyme community	Borrelia burgdorferi	Lyme disease is caused by an infection with the spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi, and is the most common vector-borne disease in North America. B. burgdorferi isolates harbor extensive genomic and proteomic variability and further comparison of isolates is key to understanding the infectivity of the spirochetes and biological impacts of identified sequence variants. Here, we applied both transcriptome analysis and mass spectrometry-based proteomics to assemble peptide datasets of B. burgdorferi laboratory isolates B31, MM1, and the infective isolate B31-5A4, to provide a publicly available Borrelia PeptideAtlas. Included are total proteome, secretome, and membrane proteome identifications of the individual isolates. Proteomic data collected from 35 different experiment datasets, totaling 386 mass spectrometry runs, have identified 81,967 distinct peptides, which map to 1,113 proteins. The Borrelia PeptideAtlas covers 86% of the total B31 proteome of 1,291 protein sequences. The Borrelia PeptideAtlas is an extensible comprehensive peptide repository with proteomic information from B. burgdorferi isolates useful for Lyme disease research.
PXD055560	39623375	Cyclophostin and Cyclipostins analogues counteract macrolide-induced resistance mediated by erm(41) in Mycobacterium abscessus. 	Cyclophostin and Cyclipostins analogues counteract macrolide-induced resistance mediated by Erm(41) in Mycobacterium abscessus	Erm(41), Mycobacterium abscessus, drug susceptibility, macrolide, resistance, synergy testing	BACKGROUND: Mycobacterium abscessus is an emerging pathogen causing severe pulmonary infections, particularly in individuals with underlying conditions, such as cystic fibrosis or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Macrolides, such as clarithromycin (CLR) or azithromycin (AZM), represent the cornerstone of antibiotherapy against the M. abscessus species. However, prolonged exposure to these macrolides can induce of Erm(41)-mediated resistance, limiting their spectrum of activity and leading to therapeutic failure. Therefore, inhibiting Erm(41) could thwart this resistance mechanism to maintain macrolide susceptibility, thus increasing the rate of treatment success. In our previous study, the Erm(41) methyltransferase was identified as a possible target enzyme of Cyclipostins and Cyclophostin compounds (CyC). METHODS: Herein, we exploited this feature to evaluate the in vitro activity of CLR and AZM in combination with different CyC via the checkerboard assay on macrolide-susceptible and induced macrolide-resistant M. abscessus strains selected in vitro following exposure CLR and AZM. RESULTS: Our results emphasize the use of the CyC to prevent/overcome Erm(41)-induced resistance and to restore macrolide susceptibility. CONCLUSION: This work should expand our therapeutic arsenal in the fight against a antibioticresistant mycobacterial species and could provide the opportunity to revisit the therapeutic regimen for combating M. abscessus pulmonary infections in patients, and particularly in erm(41)-positive strains.
PXD053223	39623505	A transphyletic study of metazoan beta-catenin protein complexes. 	A transphyletic study of metazoan beta-catenin protein complexes	Nematostella vectensis, metazoan, protein complex, beta-catenin	Beta-catenin is essential for diverse biological processes, such as body axis determination and cell differentiation, during metazoan embryonic development. Beta-catenin is thought to exert such functions through complexes formed with various proteins. Although beta-catenin complex proteins have been identified in several bilaterians, little is known about the structural and functional properties of beta-catenin complexes in early metazoan evolution. In the present study, we performed a comparative analysis of beta-catenin sequences in nonbilaterian lineages that diverged early in metazoan evolution. We also carried out transphyletic function experiments with beta-catenin from nonbilaterian metazoans using developing Xenopus embryos, including secondary axis induction in embryos and proteomic analysis of beta-catenin protein complexes. Comparative functional analysis of nonbilaterian beta-catenins demonstrated sequence characteristics important for beta-catenin functions, and the deep origin and evolutionary conservation of the cadherin-catenin complex. Proteins that co-immunoprecipitated with beta-catenin included several proteins conserved among metazoans. These data provide new insights into the conserved repertoire of beta-catenin complexes.
PXD053413	39625663	Bacillus thuringiensis Cry5, Cry21, App6 and Xpp55 proteins to control Meloidogyne javanica and M. incognita. 	Bacillus thuringiensis Cry5, Cry21, App6 and Xpp55 proteins to control the plant pest nematodes Meloidogyne javanica and M. incognita	Bio-control, Bt wild strains, bioassay, in planta assay, in vitro assay	The global imperative to enhance crop protection while preserving the environment has increased interest in the application of biological pesticides. Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) is a Gram-positive bacterium that can produce nematicidal proteins and accumulate them in parasporal crystals. Root-knot nematodes are obligate root plant parasitic which are distributed worldwide, causing severe damages to the infested plants and, consequently, large yield reductions. In this work, we have evaluated the toxicity of the Bt crystal proteins Cry5, Cry21, App6, and Xpp55 against two root-knot nematodes belonging to the Meloidogyne genus (M. incognita and M. javanica). The results show that all four proteins, when solubilized, were highly toxic for both nematode species. To check the potential of using Bt strains producing nematicidal crystal proteins as biopesticides to control root-knot nematodes in the field, in planta assays were conducted, using two wild Bt strains which produced Cry5 or a combination of App6 and Cry5 proteins. The tests were carried out with cucumber or with tomato plants infested with M. javanica J2, irrigated with spore + cristal mixtures of the respective strains. The results showed that the effectiveness of the nematicidal activity was plant-dependent, as Bt was able to reduce emerged J2 in tomato plants but not in cucumber plants. In addition, the toxicity observed in the in planta assays was much lower than expected, highlighting the difficulty of the proteins supplied as crystals to exert their toxicity. This emphasizes the delivery of the Bt proteins as crucial for its use to control root-knot nematodes. KEY POINTS: * Solubilized Cry5, Cry21, App6 and Xpp55 Bt proteins are toxic to M. javanica. * Cry21 toxicity to M. incognita is similar to that of Cry5, App6, and Xpp55 proteins. * The Cry5 and App6 toxicities on M. javanica after Bt irrigation is crop dependent.
PXD056209	39625841	Global Insights into the Lysine Acetylome Reveal the Role of Lysine Acetylation in the Adaptation of Bacillus altitudinis to Salt Stress. 	The changes in lysine acetylation levels of Bacillus altitudinis 6ww6 under salt stress	Bacillus altitudinis, Lysine acetylation, Post translational modification, Quantitative acetylome, Salt tolerance	Bacillus altitudinis is a well-known beneficial microorganism in plant rhizosphere, capable of enhancing plant growth and salt tolerance in saline soils. However, the mechanistic changes underlying salt tolerance in B. altitudinis at the level of post-translational modifications remain unclear. Here, diverse lysine modifications including acetylation, succinylation, crotonylation, and malonylation were determined in the B. altitudinis response to salt stress by immunodetection, and the acetylation level greatly increased under salt stress. The in-depth acetylome landscape showed that 1032 proteins in B. altitudinis were differentially acetylated under salt stress. These proteins were involved in many physiological aspects closely related to salt tolerance like energy generation and conversion, amino acid synthesis and transport, cell motility, signal transduction, secretion system, and repair system. Moreover, we also identified the differential acetylation of key enzymes involved in the major osmolyte biosynthesis and conversion and antioxidant defenses. Thiol peroxidase (TPX), a key protective antioxidant enzyme, had 3 upregulated acetylation sites (K7/139/157) under salt stress. Site-specific mutations demonstrated that K7/139/157 acetylation strongly regulated TPX function in scavenging intracellular ROS, thereby impacting bacterial growth under salt stress. To our knowledge, this is the first study showing that bacteria adaptation to salt stress occurs at the level of PTMs.
PXD046654	39626509	The role of exosomes for sustained specific cardiorespiratory and metabolic improvements in males with type 2 diabetes after detraining. 	Sustainability of specific improvements of cardiorespiratory fitness and insulin sensitive metabolism in type 2 diabetes after exercise training	Detraining, Exercise, Insulin sensitivity, Inter-organ crosstalk, Mitochondrial function, Small extracellular vesicles	BACKGROUND: High-intensity interval training (HIIT) has been shown to improve cardiorespiratory fitness (V.O2 max) but may ameliorate insulin sensitivity only in insulin-resistant humans. It is yet unclear whether these benefits persist after detraining and to which extent duration and effectiveness of metabolic improvements differ between individuals without and with prediabetes or type 2 diabetes (T2D). Understanding these differences is relevant for developing targeted exercise training modes for individuals with different stages of dysglycemia. METHODS: Men with (20 T2D) and without T2D (12 insulin-sensitive, IS-NDM; 10 insulin-resistant, IR-NDM) underwent hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamps, spiroergometry, ectopic lipid quantification and muscle biopsies at baseline, after 12-week HIIT and after 4-week detraining. FINDINGS: After detraining, the HIIT-stimulated V.O2 max declined in T2D and IR-NDM, but remained higher compared to baseline in all groups. The HIIT-induced changes in hepatic insulin sensitivity and ectopic lipid content were sustained after detraining in T2D and IR-NDM, whereas improvements of whole-body insulin sensitivity were abolished in T2D. T2D and IR-NDM showed persistent increases in the number of small extracellular vesicles, which carry among others antioxidant proteins. The ratio of reduced-to-oxidized glutathione further decreased after detraining in all groups, whereas changes in proteins involved in mitochondrial turnover were dependent on insulin sensitivity, with some evidence for upregulation of fusion and mitophagy in T2D and IR-NDM and upregulation of fission in IS-NDM. Levels of different lipolytic proteins were reduced in all participants after detraining. INTERPRETATION: HIIT offers sustained improvement of energy metabolism and hepatic insulin sensitivity in insulin-resistant humans, but long-term adherence is required to maintain these benefits. FUNDING: Funding bodies that contributed to this study are listed in the Acknowledgements section.
PXD057977	39627192	Epstein-Barr virus infection upregulates extracellular OLFM4 to activate YAP signaling during gastric cancer progression. 	OLFM4 is a direct target of the cGAS-STING pathway and acts as an extracellular inhibitor for the Hippo signaling in EBV-associated cancer	Epstein-Barr virus, Gastric cancer, Hippo pathway, Microvesicles, OLFM4	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are known to mediate cell communications and shape tumor microenvironment. Compared to the well-studied small EVs, the function of large microvesicles (MVs) during tumorigenesis is poorly understood. Here we show the proteome of MVs in Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated gastric cancer (EBVaGC), and identify olfactomedin 4 (OLFM4) is induced by EBV infection and secreted via MVs to promote tumor progression through Hippo signaling. Specifically, OLFM4 is a target gene of the cGAS-STING pathway, and EBV infection activates cGAS-STING pathway and increases OLFM4 expression. Moreover, MV-carried OLFM4 binds with the extracellular cadherin domain of FAT1, thereby impairing its intracellular interaction with MST1 and leading to YAP activation in recipient cells. Together, our study not only reveals a regulatory mechanism though which viral infection is coupled via MVs with intercellular control of the Hippo signaling, but also highlights the OLFM4-Hippo axis as a therapeutic target for EBV-associated cancers.
PXD050108	39627214	ATAD5-BAZ1B interaction modulates PCNA ubiquitination during DNA repair. 	ATAD5-BAZ1B interaction modulates PCNA ubiquitination during DNA repair	ATAD5, BAZ1B, DNA repair, PCNA, SMARCA5, UAF1, USP1, de-ubiquitination	Mono-ubiquitinated PCNA (mono-Ub-PCNA) is generated when replication forks encounter obstacles, enabling the bypass of DNA lesions. After resolving stalled forks, Ub-PCNA must be de-ubiquitinated to resume high-fidelity DNA synthesis. ATAD5, in cooperation with the UAF1-USP1 complex, is responsible for this de-ubiquitination. However, the precise regulation of timely Ub-PCNA de-ubiquitination remains unclear. Our research reveals that BAZ1B, a regulatory subunit of the BAZ1B-SMARCA5 chromatin-remodeling complex (also known as the WICH complex), plays a crucial role in fine-tuning the de-ubiquitination process of Ub-PCNA. The BAZ1B binding region of ATAD5 encompasses the UAF1-binding domain of ATAD5. Disruption of the ATAD5-BAZ1B interaction results in premature de-ubiquitination of Ub-PCNA following treatment with hydrogen peroxide. Cells with impaired BAZ1B binding to ATAD5 display increased sensitivity to oxidative stress compared to wild-type cells. These findings suggest that BAZ1B prevents premature Ub-PCNA de-ubiquitination, thereby safeguarding genome integrity.
PXD047546	39627514	Spatial omics-based machine learning algorithms for the early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Spatial omics based machine learning (SOML) algorithms for the early detection of hepatocellular carcinoma.	Glycan, HCC, Imaging, MALDI_TOF, spatial-omics	BACKGROUND: Worldwide, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the second most lethal cancer, although early-stage HCC is amenable to curative treatment and can facilitate long-term survival. Early detection has proved difficult, as proteomics, transcriptomics, and genomics have been unable to discover suitable biomarkers. METHODS: To find new biomarkers of HCC, we utilized a spatial omics N-glycan imaging method to identify altered glycosylation in cancer tissue (n = 53) and in paired serum of individuals with HCC (n = 23). Glycoproteomics identified the glycoproteins carrying these N-glycan structures, and we utilized an antibody array-based glycan imaging method to examine all the N-glycans associated with the identified glycoproteins. N-glycans from the examined glycoproteins were used to create machine learning algorithms, which were tested in a case-control sample set of 100 patients with cirrhosis and HCC and 101 matched patients with cirrhosis alone. RESULTS: Spatial glycan imaging identifies thirteen branched, fucosylated, and high mannose glycans as altered in HCC tissue and in matched patient serum. Glycoproteomics identifies over 50 proteins containing these changes, of which sixteen glycoproteins were selected for further testing in an independent patient set. Algorithms using a combination of glycan and glycoproteins accurately differentiate early-stage and all HCC from cirrhosis with AUROC values of 0.88-0.97. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, we present the development and application of a new biomarker platform, which can identify effective biomarkers for the early detection of HCC. This platform may also apply to other diseases, in which changes in N-linked glycosylation are known to occur.
PXD050978	39627516	Nrf2 depletion enhanced curcumin therapy effect in gastric cancer by inducing the excessive accumulation of ROS. 	Curcumin combined with Nrf2 knockdown inhibited gastric cancer growth by inducing the excessive accumulation of ROS	Gastric cancer, ROS, curcumin, oxidative stress, the Keap1-Nrf2 signaling pathway	Gastric cancer (GC) is the most common malignant tumor of the gastrointestinal tract and currently has a poor clinical outcome. Turmeric's rhizome contains a polyphenolic component called curcumin (Cur), which has been demonstrated to inhibit a variety of tumor cells, such as pancreatic, colon, lung and gastric cancers. However, it remains to be elucidated how Cur functions in GC and what molecular processes underlie it. Here, Cur showed a stronger inhibitory effect on GC cells AGS and HGC27. In addition, Cur's inhibition of GC cells growth was accompanied by increased ROS production, triggering of the Keap1-Nrf2 signaling pathway, and increased transcription of its downstream antioxidant genes HO-1, GCLM, and NQO1. However, when a ROS scavenger NAC was used, the inhibitory effect of Cur on GC cells was reversed. Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) is overexpressed or activated in cancers to shield cancer cells from oxidative damage by responding to oxidative stress (OS). Cur has been found to act as an activator of Nrf2. Notably, compared with Nrf2 knockdown and Cur alone, the combination of the two dramatically increased Cur-induced ROS overaccumulation and inhibition of GC cells proliferation, migration, and invasive abilities. Consistent with in vitro experiments, Cur combined with Nrf2 knockdown significantly inhibited tumor growth in nude mice transplanted with AGS cells. Therefore, we concluded that Nrf2 depletion enhanced Cur therapy effect in GC by inducing the excessive accumulation of ROS, indicating that this is a promising treatment strategy.
PXD057232	39629602	Rapid Adaption but Genetic Diversity Loss of a Globally Distributed Diatom in the Warmer Ocean. 	Rapid adaption but genetic diversity loss of a globally distributed diatom in the warmer ocean	Marine diatoms, adaptive evolution, genetic diversity, ocean warming, proteomics., whole-genome re-sequencing	Studies have demonstrated that marine phytoplankton can adapt to the warmer environment. However, the underlying mechanisms remain largely unknown. Here, we quantified the capacity of a globally distributed marine diatom Skeletonema dohrnii, for rapid evolution under the moderate (24degreesC) and severe (28degreesC) warming scenarios. Whole-genome resequencing analysis revealed that the evolutionary adaptation of S. dohrnii to moderate warming was slow (i.e., 700 generations), whereas it was rapid (i.e., 300 generations) under severe warming but suffered a substantial loss of genetic diversity within the population. Genes associated with energy production and lipid metabolism evolved rapidly, particularly under severe warming, suggesting their vital roles in thermal adaptation. Proteomic results also showed the enhanced expression of proteins involved in energy production and lipid metabolism, especially under severe warming. Furthermore, particulate organic carbon and nitrogen production was greatly enhanced in the moderate warming-selected population but increased insignificantly in the severe warming-selected population, indicating more rapid adaptation driven by severe warming. Our results provide molecular insights into the rapid but limited evolution of thermal adaptation in marine diatoms and highlight energy production and lipid metabolism as the most important adaptive strategy. Future warming will affect genetic diversity and population dynamics of diatoms in the ocean.
PXD038293	39629683	Multi-omics revealed that DCP1A and SPDL1 determine embryogenesis defects in postovulatory ageing oocytes. 	Exploration on the Mechanism of Decreased Quality of Aging Oocytes After Ovulation	oocyte	Growing evidence indicates that the deterioration of egg quality caused by postovulatory ageing significantly hampers embryonic development. However, the molecular mechanisms by which postovulatory ageing leads to a decline in oocyte quality have not been fully characterized. In this study, we observed an accelerated decay of maternal mRNAs through RNA-seq analyses in postovulatory-aged (PostOA) oocytes. We noted that these downregulated mRNAs should be degraded during the 2-cell stage. Proteomic analyses revealed that the degradation of maternal mRNAs is associated with the accumulation of DCP1A. The injection of exogenous Dcp1a mRNA or siRNA into MII stage oocytes proved that DCP1A could accelerate the degradation of maternal mRNAs. Additionally, we also found that SPDL1 is crucial for maintaining spindle/chromosome structure and chromosome euploidy in PostOA oocytes. Spdl1-mRNA injection remarkably recovered the meiotic defects in PostOA oocytes. Collectively, our findings provide valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying postovulatory ageing.
PXD050777	39632087	Characterization of DNA methylation reader proteins of Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Identification of DNA methylation reader proteins of Arabidopsis thaliana by DNA-affinity pull-down MS and their characterization by IP-MS.	AP, DNA affinity pull-down, DNA methylation, Epigenetics, MBD, Plants, SUVH	In plants, cytosine DNA methylation (mC) is largely associated with transcriptional repression of transposable elements, but it can also be found in the body of expressed genes, referred to as gene body methylation (gbM). gbM is correlated with ubiquitously expressed genes; however, its function, or absence thereof, is highly debated. The different outputs that mC can have raise questions as to how it is interpreted-or read-differently in these sequence and genomic contexts. To screen for potential mC-binding proteins, we performed an unbiased DNA affinity pull-down assay combined with quantitative mass spectrometry using methylated DNA probes for each DNA sequence context. All mC readers known to date preferentially bind to the methylated probes, along with a range of new mC-binding protein candidates. Functional characterization of these mC readers, focused on the MBD and SUVH families, was undertaken by ChIP-seq mapping of genome-wide binding sites, their protein interactors, and the impact of high-order mutations on transcriptomic and epigenomic profiles. Together, these results highlight specific context preferences for these proteins, and in particular the ability of MBD2 to bind predominantly to gbM. This comprehensive analysis of Arabidopsis mC readers emphasizes the complexity and interconnectivity between DNA methylation and chromatin remodeling processes in plants.
PXD055586	39632390	In-Source Collision-Induced Dissociation (CID) Improves Higher-Energy Collisional Dissociation (HCD)-Dependent Fragmentation of ADP-Ribosyl Peptides. 	In-source CID improves HCD-dependent fragmentation of ADP-ribosyl peptides	ADP-ribosylation, Exploris480, HCD, SID	RATIONALE: ADP-ribosylation is a posttranslational modification whose higher-energy collisional dissociation (HCD) products are dominated by complete or partial modification losses, complicating peptide sequencing and acceptor site localization efforts. We tested whether in-source collision-induced dissociation (CID) performed on a quadrupole-Orbitrap could convert ADPr to the smaller phosphoribose-H2O derivative to facilitate HCD-dependent peptide sequencing. METHODS: ADP-ribosyl (ADPr) peptides derived from the human macrophage-like cell line THP-1 were analyzed on a quadrupole-Orbitrap. We monitored the dissociation of ADPr (+ 541.061 Da) to phosphoribosyl-H2O (+ 193.997 Da) peptides while varying the source and high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility mass spectrometry (FAIMS) compensation voltages. Xcorr and ptmRS were used to evaluate peptide sequencing and acceptor site confidence, respectively. Phosphoribosyl-H2O acceptor sites were compared with those determined by electron-transfer higher-energy collision dissociation (EThcD), performed on a quadrupole-ion trap-Orbitrap. RESULTS: In-source CID of ADPr peptides to their phosphoribosyl-H2O derivatives increased with increasing source voltage (up to 50 V), as judged by monitoring the corresponding modification loss ([adenosine monophosphate/AMP](+)) and the number of identified phosphoribosyl-H2O peptide identifications. The average Xcorr increased from 1.36 (ADPr) to 2.26 (phosphoribosyl-H2O), similar to that achieved with EThcD for ADPr peptides (2.29). The number of high-confidence acceptor sites (> 95%) also increased, from 31% (ADPr) to 70% (phosphoribosyl-H2O), which was comparable to EThcD (70%). CONCLUSIONS: In-source CID converts ADP-ribosyl to phosphoribosyl-H2O peptides that are more amenable to HCD-dependent peptide sequencing, providing an alternative method for acceptor site determination when ETD-based methods are not available.
PXD055432	39632881	DTX3L-mediated TIRR nuclear export and degradation regulates DNA repair pathway choice and PARP inhibitor sensitivity. 	Identification of TIRR ubiquitination site by mass spec	DTX3L, TIRR, Ubiquitination	53BP1 plays an important role in DNA double-strand break (DSB) repair and this activity is negatively regulated by its interaction with Tudor interacting repair regulator (TIRR). However, how the TIRR-53BP1 repair axis is regulated in response to DNA damage remains elusive. Here, we demonstrate that TIRR is translocated to the cytoplasm and degraded upon DNA damage. Ubiquitination of TIRR at lysine 187 by DTX3L is a critical process that regulates NHEJ pathway activity and PARP inhibitor sensitivity by facilitating XPO1-mediated TIRR nuclear export and degradation after DNA damage. We show that DTX3L is overexpressed in prostate cancers in patients and that decreased expression of TIRR due to DTX3L overexpression impairs the negative regulatory effect of TIRR on 53BP1, which consequently induces HR deficiency and chromosomal instability and sensitizes prostate cancer cells to poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) inhibitors. Our work reveals a dual action of DTX3L on TIRR degradation and nuclear exportation and identifies DTX3L as an upstream regulator of the TIRR-53BP1 axis that governs DNA repair pathway choice and PARP inhibitor sensitivity. These findings suggest that TIRR ubiquitination and DTX3L overexpression could be viable biomarkers predicting PARP inhibitor sensitivity in cancers.
PXD057723	39635211	Screening and verification of differentially expressed serum proteins in children with severe adenovirus pneumonia. 	Screening and Verification of Differentially Expressed Serum Proteins in Children with Severe Adenovirus Pneumonia	Adenovirus, E-selectin, children, respiratory infections	Background: Human adenoviruses are prevalent pathogens that cause severe acute respiratory infections. The clinical presentation of the adenoviral pneumonia is varied; in severe cases, they may cause systemic multi-system damages. Currently, early clinical differential diagnosis is difficult under the existing testing methods, the study identified potential biomarkers by screening and validating differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), and aimed at distinguishing between severe and non-severe adenovirus pneumonia in children aged <14 years. Methods: DEPs were identified using data-independent acquisition (DIA) quantitative proteomics technology, and potential biomarkers were further validated using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Results: Twenty-seven identical DEPs were found in patients with severe adenovirus pneumonia. Among these, 10 were downregulated, and 17 were upregulated. In the protein-protein interaction network, five proteins were located at the center of the functional network. Among these, E-selectin showed significantly higher serum expression levels in the severe adenoviral pneumonia group than in adenoviral pneumonia and control groups (p < 0.001). ELISA results were consistent with the proteomic analyses. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve for E-selectin revealed a sensitivity of 79.31% and a specificity of 96.55%, with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.92. Conclusion: E-selectin has potential as a novel biomarker for severe adenoviral pneumonia, and offers insights for improved diagnosis and clinical management.
PXD057279	39635431	Mulberry leaf ameliorate STZ induced diabetic rat by regulating hepatic glycometabolism and fatty acid beta-oxidation. 	Mulberry leaf ameliorate STZ induced diabetic rat by regulating hepatic glycometabolism and fatty acid beta-oxidation	liver metabolism, mulberry leaf, type 2 diabetes	Introduction: Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a metabolic disorder marked by disruptions in glucolipid metabolism, with numerous signaling pathways contributing to its progression. The liver, as the hub of glycolipid metabolism, plays a pivotal role in this context. Mulberry leaf (ML), a staple in traditional Chinese medicine, is widely utilized in the clinical management of T2D. Synthesizing existing literature with the outcomes of prior research, it has become evident that ML enhances glucose metabolism via multiple pathways. Methods: In our study, we induced T2D in rats through a regimen of high-sugar and high-fat diet supplementation, coupled with intraperitoneal injections of streptozotocin. We subsequently administered the aqueous extract of ML to these rats and assessed its efficacy using fasting blood glucose levels and other diagnostic indicators. Further, we conducted a comprehensive analysis of the rats' liver tissues using metabolomics and proteomics to gain insights into the underlying mechanisms. Results: Our findings indicate that ML not only significantly alleviated the symptoms in T2D rats but also demonstrated the capacity to lower blood glucose levels. This was achieved by modulating the glucose-lipid metabolism and amino-terminal pathways within the liver. ACSL5, Dlat, Pdhb, G6pc, Mdh2, Cs, and other key enzymes in metabolic pathways regulated by ML may be the core targets of ML treatment for T2D. Discussion: Mulberry leaf ameliorate STZ induced diabetic rat by regulating hepatic glycometabolism and fatty acid beta-oxidation.
PXD045379	39636223	A conserved cell-pole determinant organizes proper polar flagellum formation. 	A conserved cell-pole determinant organizes proper polar flagellum formation	FimV, FlhF, FlhG, HubP, cell pole, flagellar synthesis	The coordination of cell cycle progression and flagellar synthesis is a complex process in motile bacteria. In gamma-proteobacteria, the localization of the flagellum to the cell pole is mediated by the SRP-type GTPase FlhF. However, the mechanism of action of FlhF, and its relationship with the cell pole landmark protein HubP remain unclear. In this study, we discovered a novel protein called FipA that is required for normal FlhF activity and function in polar flagellar synthesis. We demonstrated that membrane-localized FipA interacts with FlhF and is required for normal flagellar synthesis in Vibrio parahaemolyticus, Pseudomonas putida, and Shewanella putrefaciens, and it does so independently of the polar localization mediated by HubP. FipA exhibits a dynamic localization pattern and is present at the designated pole before flagellar synthesis begins, suggesting its role in licensing flagellar formation. This discovery provides insight into a new pathway for regulating flagellum synthesis and coordinating cellular organization in bacteria that rely on polar flagellation and FlhF-dependent localization.
PXD048231	39636558	Integrative analysis of toxicometabolomics and toxicoproteomics data: new molecular insights into thiazolidinedione-induced cardiotoxicity. 	Cytotoxicity and Toxicoproteomic Analysis of Pioglitazone Exposure in Human-derived Cardiomyocytes	Pioglitazone, WGCNA, label-free protein quantification, mitochondrial dysfunction	INTRODUCTION: Despite the well-established efficacy of thiazolidinediones (TZDs), including pioglitazone and rosiglitazone, in type II diabetes management, their potential contribution to heart failure risk remains a significant area of uncertainty. This incomplete understanding, which persists despite decades of clinical use of TZDs, has generated ongoing controversy and unanswered questions regarding their safety profiles, ultimately limiting their broader clinical application. OBJECTIVE AND METHODS: This study presented a multi-omics approach, integrating toxicoproteomics and toxicometabolomics data with the goal of uncovering novel mechanistic insights into TZD cardiotoxicity and identifying molecular signatures predictive of side effect progression. RESULTS: Network analysis of proteo-metabolomic data revealed a distinct fingerprint of disrupted biochemical pathways, which were primarily related to energy metabolism. Downregulation of oxidative phosphorylation and fatty acid synthesis was coupled with increased activity in anaerobic glycolysis, the pentose phosphate pathway, and amino acid and purine metabolism. This suggests a potential metabolic shift in AC16 cells from fatty acid oxidation towards anaerobic glycolysis, potentially contributing to observed cardiotoxicity. Additionally, the study identified a marked disruption in the glutathione system, indicating an imbalanced redox state triggered by TZD exposure. Importantly, our analysis identified key molecular signatures across omics datasets, including prominent signatures of amino acids like L-ornithine, L-tyrosine and glutamine, which are evidently associated with heart failure, supporting their potential use for the early prediction of cardiotoxicity progression. CONCLUSION: By uncovering a novel mechanistic explanation for TZD cardiotoxicity, this study simultaneously illuminates potential therapeutic interventions, opening avenues for future research to improve the safety profile of TZD agents. (250 words).
PXD055978	39636867	Endo-IP and lyso-IP toolkit for endolysosomal profiling of human-induced neurons. 	Endo-IP and Lyso-IP Toolkit for Endolysosomal Profiling of Human Induced Neurons	Endosomes, Lysosomes, TMT, iNeurons	Plasma membrane protein degradation and recycling are regulated by the endolysosomal system, wherein endocytic vesicles bud from the plasma membrane into the cytoplasm and mature into endosomes and then degradative lysosomes. As such, the endolysosomal system plays a critical role in determining the abundance of proteins on the cell surface and influencing cellular identity and function. Highly polarized cells, like neurons, rely on the endolysosomal system for axonal and dendritic specialization and synaptic compartmentalization. The importance of this system to neuronal function is reflected by the prevalence of risk variants in components of the system in several neurodegenerative diseases, ranging from Parkinson's to Alzheimer's disease. Nevertheless, our understanding of endocytic cargo and core endolysosomal machinery in neurons is limited, in part due to technical limitations. Here, we develop a toolkit for capturing EEA1-positive endosomes (termed Endo-IP) and TMEM192-positive lysosomes (termed Lyso-IP) in stem cell-derived induced neurons (iNeurons). We demonstrate its utility by revealing the endolysosomal protein landscapes for stem cells and cortical-like iNeurons, and profiling endosomes in response to potassium-mediated neuronal depolarization. Through global profiling of endocytic cargo, we identify hundreds of transmembrane proteins, including neurogenesis and synaptic proteins, as well as endocytic cargo with predicted SNX17 or SNX27 recognition motifs. By contrast, parallel lysosome profiling reveals a simpler protein repertoire, reflecting in part temporally controlled recycling or degradation for many endocytic targets. This system will facilitate mechanistic interrogation of endolysosomal components found as risk factors in neurodegenerative disease.
PXD055316	39639866	Viable but nonculturable state in the zoonotic pathogen Bartonella henselae induced by low-grade fever temperature and antibiotic treatment. 	Bartonella VBNC formation and resuscitation	VBNC, bartonella	The zoonotic pathogen Bartonella henselae is responsible for diverse human diseases, from mild to life-threatening, but it often eludes detection in culture-based assays. This study investigates the potential of B. henselae to enter a viable but nonculturable (VBNC) state when exposed to human fever temperature or antibiotics, with this state confirmed by successful resuscitation. Viability was assessed using SYBR Green I/PI staining and propidium monoazide-quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PMA-qPCR), while culturability was determined through colony-forming unit (CFU) counting on blood agar plates. Resuscitation of VBNC cells was attempted using modified Schneider's medium with 10% defibrillated sheep blood. In the results, B. henselae cells entered a VBNC state after 19 days of exposure to 38.8degreesC. Antibiotics, particularly with bactericidal activity, induced the VBNC state within 4 days treatment. Successful resuscitation confirmed the VBNC state developed via the above two strategies. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) examination revealed intact cell structures and dense cytosol in VBNC cells, with a significant increase in plasmolytic cells. Notably, VBNC cells demonstrated greater drug tolerance than cells in the stationary phase, which encompassed a substantial portion of persisters. Proteomic analysis revealed the up-regulation of proteins linked to host cell invasion and stress resistance, while proteins related to signaling and cellular processes were down-regulated. Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis confirmed that the VBNC state truly boosted B. henselae's invasion of HUVECs. This study highlights B. henselae's capacity to enter a VBNC state under thermal and antibiotic stress, emphasizing the urgent need for advanced diagnostic and therapeutic strategies to effectively target VBNC cells, which complicate diagnosis and treatment.
PXD058781	39641635	Modulatory effects of CNNM4 on Protein-L-Isoaspartyl-O-Methyltransferase repair function during Alcohol-Induced hepatic damage. 	Modulatory Effects of CNNM4 on Protein-L-Isoaspartyl-O-Methyltransferase Repair Function during Alcohol-Induced Hepatic Damage	ALD, CNNM4, Liver disease, Mg++	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Alcohol-related liver disease (ALD) is a leading cause of liver-related mortality worldwide, with limited treatment options beyond abstinence and liver transplantation. Chronic alcohol consumption has been linked to magnesium (Mg2+) deficiency, which can influence the liver disease progression. The mechanisms underlying Mg2+ homeostasis dysregulation in ALD remain elusive. This study aimed to investigate the role of the Mg2+ transporter Cyclin M4 (CNNM4) in ALD by analyzing its expression patterns in ALD patients and preclinical animal models. APPROACH AND RESULTS: In this study, CNNM4 is upregulated in the liver of both ALD patients and animal models. CNNM4 overexpression triggers Mg(2)+ homeostasis dysregulation, linked to ALD progression. We propose a novel therapeutic approach for ALD treatment using N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc) silencing RNA (siRNA) technology to specifically modulate Cnnm4 expression in the liver, improving mitochondrial function and alleviating ER stress. Notably, silencing Cnnm4 restores protein isoaspartyl methyltransferase (PCMT1) activity, essential for repairing ethanol-induced protein damage. Enhancing mitochondrial activity through Cnnm4-dependent mechanisms increases SAMe levels, crucial for PCMT1 function, highlighting the interconnected roles of mitochondrial health and protein homeostasis in ALD treatment. CONCLUSIONS: These findings shed light on the dysregulation of Mg2+ homeostasis in ALD, providing a promising therapeutic approach targeting CNNM4. GalNAc siCnnm4 therapy boost the repair processes of ethanol damaged proteins through the upregulation of PCMT1 activity.
PXD044102	39642243	A helminth enzyme subverts macrophage-mediated immunity by epigenetic targeting of prostaglandin synthesis. 	A helminth enzyme subverts macrophage-mediated immunity by epigenetic targeting of prostaglandin synthesis to promote parasite chronicity	A helminth enzyme subverts macrophage-mediated immunity by epigenetic targeting of prostaglandin synthesis to promote parasite chronicity	The molecular mechanisms by which worm parasites evade host immunity are incompletely understood. In a mouse model of intestinal helminth infection using Heligmosomoides polygyrus bakeri (Hpb), we show that helminthic glutamate dehydrogenase (heGDH) drives parasite chronicity by suppressing macrophage-mediated host defense. Combining RNA-seq, ChIP-seq, and targeted lipidomics, we identify prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) as a major immune regulatory mechanism of heGDH. The induction of PGE2 and other immunoregulatory factors, including IL-12 family cytokines and indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase 1, by heGDH required p300-mediated histone acetylation, whereas the enzyme's catalytic activity suppressed the synthesis of type 2-promoting leukotrienes by macrophages via 2-hydroxyglutarate. By contrast, the induction of immunoregulatory factors involved the heGDH N terminus by potentially mediating interactions with cellular targets (CD64 and GPNMB) identified by proteomics. Type 2 cytokines counteracted suppressive effects of heGDH on host defense, indicating that type 2 immunity can limit helminth-driven immune evasion. Thus, helminths harness a ubiquitous metabolic enzyme to epigenetically target type 2 macrophage activation and establish chronicity.
PXD056469	39642266	Investigating the Use of Novel Blood Processing Methods to Boost the Identification of Biomarkers for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: A Proof of Concept. 	Human whole blood from patients with NSCLC and matching controls processed using VAMS device.	NSCLC, VAMS, lung cancer, whole blood	Diagnosis of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) currently relies on imaging; however, these methods are not effective for detecting early stage disease. Investigating blood-based protein biomarkers aims to simplify the diagnostic process and identify disease-associated changes before they can be seen by using imaging techniques. In this study, plasma and frozen whole blood cell pellets from NSCLC patients and healthy controls were processed using both classical and novel techniques to produce a unique set of four sample types from a single blood draw. These samples were analyzed using 12 immunoassays and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to collectively screen 3974 proteins. Analysis of all fractions produced a set of 522 differentially expressed proteins, with conventional blood analysis (proteomic analysis of plasma) accounting for only 7 of the total. Boosted regression tree analysis of the differentially expressed proteins produced a panel of 13 proteins that were able to discriminate between controls and NSCLC patients, with an area under the ROC curve (AUC) of 0.864 for the set. Our rapid and reproducible (<10% CV for technical replicates) blood preparation and analysis methods enabled the production of high-quality data from only 30 muL of complex samples that typically require significant fractionation prior to proteomic analysis. With our methods, almost 4000 proteins were identified from a single fraction over a 62.5 min gradient by LC-MS/MS.
PXD054117	39642884	Alphavirus infection triggers selective cytoplasmic translocation of nuclear RBPs with moonlighting antiviral roles. 	SINV-nsP3 mScarelt-tagged immunoprecipitation	SINV-nsP3	RNA is a central molecule for viruses; however, the interactions that viral RNA (vRNA) establishes with the host cell is only starting to be elucidated. Here, we determine the ribonucleoprotein (RNP) composition of the prototypical arthropod-borne Sindbis virus (SINV). We show that SINV RNAs engage with hundreds of cellular proteins, including a group of nuclear RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) with unknown roles in infection. We demonstrate that these nuclear RBPs are selectively translocated to the cytoplasm after infection, where they accumulate in the viral replication organelles (ROs). These nuclear RBPs strongly suppress viral gene expression, with activities spanning viral species and families. Particularly, the U2 small nuclear RNP (snRNP) emerges as an antiviral complex, with both its U2 small nuclear RNA (snRNA) and protein components contributing to the recognition of the vRNA and the antiviral phenotype. These results suggest that the U2 snRNP has RNA-driven antiviral activity in a mechanism reminiscent of the RNAi pathway.
PXD054488	39644924	Heterogeneity Assessment and Protein Pathway Prediction via Spatial Lipidomic and Proteomic Correlation: Advancing Dry Proteomics concept for Human Glioblastoma Prognosis. 	Heterogeneity Assessment and Protein Pathway Prediction via Spatial Lipidomic and Proteomic Correlation: Advancing Dry Proteomics concept for Human Glioblastoma Prognosis	Cluster estimation, Dry Proteomics, Glioblastoma prognosis., Heterogeneity, MALDI MSI multi-omics, Machine Learn-ing, Spatial Proteomics	Prediction of proteins and associated biological pathways from lipid analyses via MALDI MSI is a pressing challenge. We introduced "dry proteomics," using MALDI MSI to validate spatial localization of identified optimal clusters in lipid imaging. Consistent cluster appearance across omics images suggests association with specific lipid and protein in distinct biological pathways, forming the basis of dry proteomics. The methodology was refined using rat brain tissue as a model, then applied to human glioblastoma, a highly heterogeneous cancer. Sequential tissue sections underwent omics MALDI MSI and unsupervised clustering. Spatial omics analysis facilitated lipid and protein characterization, leading to a predictive model identifying clusters in any tissue based on unique lipid signatures and predicting associated protein pathways. Application to rat brain slices revealed diverse tissue subpopulations, including successfully predicted cerebellum areas. Similarly, the methodology was applied to a dataset from a cohort of 50 glioblastoma patients, reused from a previous study. However, among the 50 patients, only 13 lipid signatures from MALDI MSI data were available, allowing for the identification of lipid-protein associations that correlated with patient prognosis. For cases lacking lipid imaging data, a classification model based on protein data was developed from dry proteomic results to effectively categorize the remaining cohort.
PXD052361	39648474	An In-Depth Coho Salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) Ovarian Follicle Proteome Reveals Coordinated Changes Across Diverse Cellular Processes during the Transition From Primary to Secondary Growth. 	DIA Proteomics of Coho Salmon Ovaries Across 4 Stages	coho, gametogenesis, reproduction, salmon	Teleost fishes are a highly diverse, ecologically essential group of aquatic vertebrates that include coho salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch). Coho are semelparous and all ovarian follicles develop synchronously. Owing to their ubiquitous distribution, teleosts provide critical sources of food worldwide through subsistence, commercial fisheries, and aquaculture. Enhancement of hatchery practices requires detailed knowledge of teleost reproductive physiology. Despite decades of research on teleost reproductive processes, an in-depth proteome of teleost ovarian development has yet to be generated. We have described a coho salmon ovarian proteome of over 5700 proteins, generated with data independent acquisition, revealing the proteins that change through the transition from primary to secondary ovarian follicle development. This transition is critical during the onset of puberty and for determining egg quality and embryonic development. Primary follicle development was marked by differential abundances of proteins in carbohydrate metabolism, protein turnover, and the complement pathway, suggesting elevated metabolism as the follicles develop through stages of oogenesis. The greatest proteomic shift occurred during the transition from primary to secondary follicle growth, with increased abundance of proteins underlying cortical alveoli formation, extracellular matrix reorganization, iron binding, and cell-cell signaling. This work provides a foundation for identifying biomarkers of salmon oocyte stage and quality.
PXD057859	39648478	KT-253, A Novel MDM2 Degrader and p53 Stabilizer, Has Superior Potency and Efficacy Than MDM2 Small Molecule Inhibitors. 	KT-253, A Novel MDM2 Degrader and p53 Stabilizer, Has Superior Potency and Efficacy Than MDM2 Small Molecule Inhibitors	ALL cell line LC-MSMS	Murine double minute 2 (MDM2) is an E3 ligase that inhibits the tumor suppressor protein p53. Clinical trials employing small-molecule MDM2/p53 interaction inhibitors (SMIs) have demonstrated limited activity, underscoring an unmet need for a better approach to target MDM2. KT 253 is a highly potent and selective heterobifunctional degrader that overcomes the MDM2 feedback loop seen with SMIs and induces apoptosis in a range of hematologic and solid tumor lines. A single intravenous dose of KT 253 triggered rapid apoptosis and sustained tumor regression in p53 wild-type acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) xenograft models. Additionally, a single intravenous dose of KT 253 in combination with standard-of-care (SoC) venetoclax, overcame venetoclax resistance in an AML xenograft model. The data herein define the therapeutic potential of KT-253 and support its clinical development in a range of hematologic and solid p53 wild-type (WT) malignancies, as a monotherapy and in combination with SoC agents.
PXD057174	39652581	SEMA3G-NRP1 Signaling Functions as an Immune Checkpoint that Enables Tumor Immune Evasion by Impairing T Cell Cytotoxicity. 	Mass spectrometry data of PBMCs after PBS/SEMA3G treatment	SEMA3G, T cells, immunotherapy	T cells within the tumor microenvironment frequently exhibit dysfunctional characteristics that compromise their ability to elicit both innate and therapeutic-induced immune responses. Regulators of immune dysfunction represent therapeutic targets to activate anti-tumor immunity. In this study, we identified semaphorin 3G (SEMA3G) as a key regulator of immune responses in cancer. SEMA3G was widely upregulated in diverse human cancers, and its expression was positively correlated with tumor progression. SEMA3G acted as a ligand that inhibited the activation and functionality of T cells. A comprehensive receptor screening approach demonstrated that SEMA3G exhibited a significantly stronger affinity for neuropilin NRP1 compared to NRP2. Furthermore, SEMA3G primarily impeded T-cell functions via NRP1. Disruption of SEMA3G using CRISPR/Cas9 technology or blockade with a neutralizing antibody effectively restored the cytotoxicity of CD8+ T cells and inhibited the growth of tumors in vivo. This research underscores the role of SEMA3G in T-cell dysfunction within tumors and proposes a targeting SEMA3G as a cancer immunotherapeutic strategy.
PXD055402	39652878	An Alkyne-Containing Isoprenoid Analogue Based on a Farnesyl Diphosphate Scaffold Is a Biologically Functional Universal Probe for Proteomic Analysis. 	An alkyne-containing isoprenoid analogue based on a farnesyl diphosphate scaffold is a biologically functional universal probe for proteomic analysis	Chemical Probes, Post-Translational Modifications, Prenylation, Prenylomics	Prenylation consists of the modification of proteins with either farnesyl diphosphate (FPP) or geranylgeranyl diphosphate (GGPP) at a cysteine near the C-terminus of target proteins to generate thioether-linked lipidated proteins. In recent work, metabolic labeling with alkyne-containing isoprenoid analogues including C15AlkOPP has been used to identify prenylated proteins and track their levels in different diseases. Here, a systematic study of the impact of isoprenoid length on proteins labeled with these probes was performed. Chemical synthesis was used to generate two new analogues, C15hAlkOPP and C20AlkOPP, bringing the total number of compounds to eight used in this study. Enzyme kinetics performed in vitro combined with metabolic labeling in cellulo, resulted in the identification of 8 proteins for C10AlkOPP, 70 proteins for C15AlkOPP, 41 proteins for C15hAlkOPP, and 7 proteins for C20AlkOPP. While C10AlkOPP was the most selective for farnesylated proteins and C20AlkOPP was most selective for geranylgeranylated proteins, the number of proteins identified using those probes was relatively small. In contrast, C15AlkOPP labeled the most proteins including representatives from all classes of prenylated proteins. Functional analysis of these analogues demonstrated that C15AlkOPP was particularly well suited for biological studies since it was efficiently incorporated in cellulo, was able to confer correct plasma membrane localization of H-Ras protein and complement the effects of GGPP depletion in macrophages to yield correct cell polarization and filopodia. Collectively, these results indicate that C15AlkOPP is a biologically functional, universal probe for metabolic labeling experiments that has minimal effects on cellular physiology.
PXD056501	39655358	Tumor-Expressed SPPL3 Supports Innate Antitumor Immune Responses. 	Tumor-expressed SPPL3 supports innate anti-tumor immune responses	B3GNT5, CD8 T-cells, SPPL3, anti-tumor response	The development of an effective antitumor response relies on the synergistic actions of various immune cells that recognize tumor cells via distinct receptors. Tumors, however, often manipulate receptor-ligand interactions to evade recognition by the immune system. Recently, we highlighted the role of neolacto-series glycosphingolipids (nsGSLs), produced by the enzyme beta1,3-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase 5 (B3GNT5), in tumor immune escape. We previously demonstrated that loss of signal peptide peptidase like 3 (SPPL3), an inhibitor of B3GNT5, results in elevated levels of nsGSLs and impairs CD8 T cell activation. The impact of loss of SPPL3 and an elevated nsGSL profile in tumor cells on innate immune recognition remains to be elucidated. This study investigates the antitumor efficacy of neutrophils, NK cells, and gammadelta T cells on tumor cells lacking SPPL3. Our findings demonstrate that SPPL3-deficient target cells are less susceptible to trogocytosis by neutrophils and killing by NK cells and gammadelta T cells. Mechanistically, SPPL3 influences trogocytosis and gammadelta T cell-instigated killing through modulation of nsGSL expression, whereas SPPL3-mediated reduced killing by NK cells is nsGSL-independent. The nsGSL-dependent SPPL3 sensitivity depends on the proximity of surface receptor domains to the cell membrane and the affinity of receptor-ligand interactions as shown with various sets of defined antibodies. Thus, SPPL3 expression by tumor cells alters crosstalk with immune cells through the receptor-ligand interactome thereby driving escape not only from adaptive but also from innate immunity. These data underline the importance of investigating a potential synergism of GSL synthesis inhibitors with current immune cell-activating immunotherapies.
PXD050576	39655805	Identification and phenotypic characterization of neoantigen-specific cytotoxic CD4+ T cells in endometrial cancer. 	HLA-I and HLA-II peptidomes of endometrial cancer	HLA ligandome analysis, proteogenomics	Tumor-reactive CD4+ T cells often accumulate in the tumor microenvironment (TME) in human cancer, but their functions and roles in antitumor responses remain elusive. Here, we investigated the immunopeptidome of HLA class II-positive (HLA-II+) endometrial cancer with an inflamed TME using a proteogenomic approach. We identified HLA-II neoantigens, one of which induced polyclonal CD4+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte (TIL) responses. We then experimentally demonstrated that neoantigen-specific CD4+ TILs lyse target cells in an HLA-II-dependent manner. Single cell transcriptomic analysis of the TME coupled with T-cell receptor (TCR) sequencing revealed the presence of CD4+ T-cell clusters characterized by CXCL13 expression. The CXCL13+ clusters contained two subclusters with distinct cytotoxic gene expression patterns. The identified neoantigen-specific CD4+ T cells were found exclusively in one of the CXCL13+ subclusters characterized by granzyme B and CCL5 expression. These results demonstrate the involvement of tumor-reactive CD4+ T cells with cytotoxic function in immune surveillance of endometrial cancer and reveal their transcriptomic signature.
PXD051440	39658061	Trypanosoma cruzi eIF4E3- and eIF4E4-containing complexes bind different mRNAs and may sequester inactive mRNAs during nutritional stress. 	Two distinct Trypanosoma eIF4F complexes co-exist, bind different mRNAs and are regulated during nutritional stress	Trypanosoma, eIF4F, nutritional stress, translation initiation	Many eIF4F and poly(A)-binding protein (PABP) paralogues are found in trypanosomes: six eIF4E, five eIF4G, one eIF4A and two PABPs. They are expressed simultaneously and assemble into different complexes, contrasting the situation in metazoans that use distinct complexes in different cell types/developmental stages. Each eIF4F complex has its own proteins, messenger RNAs (mRNAs) and, consequently, a distinct function. We set out to study the function and regulation of the two eIF4F complexes of the parasite Trypanosoma cruzi and identified the associated proteins and mRNAs of eIF4E3 and eIF4E4 in cells in exponential growth and in nutritional stress, an inducer of differentiation to an infective stage. Upon stress, eIF4G and PABP remain associated with the eIF4E, but the associations with other 43S pre-initiation factors decrease, indicating ribosome attachment is impaired. Most eIF4E3-associated mRNAs encode for proteins involved in anabolic metabolism, while eIF4E4 associate with mRNAs encoding ribosomal proteins as in Trypanosoma brucei. Interestingly, for both eIF4E3/4, more mRNAs were associated in stressed cells than in non-stressed cells, even though these have lower translational efficiencies in stress. In summary, trypanosomes have two co-existing eIF4F complexes associating to different mRNAs, but not stress/differentiation-associated mRNAs. Under stress, both complexes exit translation but remain bound to their mRNA targets.
PXD056207	39659247	Proteomic Insights into the Regulatory Role of CobQ Deacetylase in Aeromonas hydrophila. 	Proteomic Insights into the Regulatory Role of CobQ Deacetylase in Aeromonas hydrophila	Aeromonas hydrophila, CobQ deacetylase, Oxidative phosphorylation, Stress response	Post-translational modifications are crucial in regulating biological functions across both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. In Aeromonas hydrophila, CobQ, a recently identified novel deacetylase, plays a significant role in lysine deacetylation, influencing bacterial metabolism and stress responses. The present study utilized quantitative proteomics to investigate the impact of cobQ deletion on the global protein expression profile in A. hydrophila. Through data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry, we identified 233 upregulated and 41 downregulated proteins in the cobQ deletion mutant (DeltaahcobQ) strain compared to the wild-type (WT) strain. Key differentially expressed proteins were involved in oxidative phosphorylation, bacterial secretion, and ribosomal function. Additionally, phenotypic assays demonstrated that the DeltaahcobQ strain exhibited an increased resistance to oxidative phosphorylation inhibitors, suggesting a pivotal role for AhCobQ in energy metabolism. Outer membrane proteins and efflux pumps also showed altered expression, indicating potential implications for membrane permeability and antibiotic resistance. These results suggested that AhCobQ plays a vital regulatory role in maintaining metabolic homeostasis and responding to environmental stress, highlighting its potential as a target for therapeutic interventions against A. hydrophila infections.
PXD051485	39660053	Pleiotropic tumor suppressive functions of PTEN missense mutations during gliomagenesis. 	Pleiotropic tumor suppressive functions of PTEN missense mutations during gliomagenesis	Epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), Genetically engineered mouse model, Glioblastoma, Phosphatase and Tensin homolog (PTEN)	PTEN plays a crucial role in preventing the development of glioblastoma (GBM), a severe and untreatable brain cancer. In GBM, most PTEN deficiencies are missense mutations that have not been thoroughly examined. Here, we leveraged genetically modified mice and isogenic astrocyte cell cultures to investigate the role of clinically relevant mutations (G36E, L42R, C105F, and R173H) in the development of EGFR-driven GBM. We report that the loss of tumor suppression from these mutants is unrelated to their lipid phosphatase activity and rather relate to elevated localization at the cell membrane. Moreover, expression of these PTEN mutations heightened EGFR activity by sequestering EGFR within endomembranes longer and affected its signaling behavior. Through comprehensive studies on global protein phosphorylation and kinase library analyses in cells with the G36E and L42R PTEN mutations, we identified distinct cancer-promoting pathways activated by EGFR, offering targets for treating GBM with these PTEN alterations.
PXD047035	39664420	Novel benzothiazole derivatives target the Gac/Rsm two-component system as antibacterial synergists against Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections. 	Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 TMT proteomics analysis RPLC-MS	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, RPLC-MS, TMT	The management of antibiotic-resistant, bacterial biofilm infections in skin wounds poses an increasingly challenging clinical scenario. Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection is difficult to eradicate because of biofilm formation and antibiotic resistance. In this study, we identified a new benzothiazole derivative compound, SN12 (IC50 = 43.3 nmol/L), demonstrating remarkable biofilm inhibition at nanomolar concentrations in vitro. In further activity assays and mechanistic studies, we formulated an unconventional strategy for combating P. aeruginosa-derived infections by targeting the two-component (Gac/Rsm) system. Furthermore, SN12 slowed the development of ciprofloxacin and tobramycin resistance. By using murine skin wound infection models, we observed that SN12 significantly augmented the antibacterial effects of three widely used antibiotics-tobramycin (100-fold), vancomycin (200-fold), and ciprofloxacin (1000-fold)-compared with single-dose antibiotic treatments for P. aeruginosa infection in vivo. The findings of this study suggest the potential of SN12 as a promising antibacterial synergist, highlighting the effectiveness of targeting the two-component system in treating challenging bacterial biofilm infections in humans.
PXD054924	39664928	Dynamic conformational equilibria in the active states of KRAS and NRAS. 	Dynamic conformational equilibria in the active states of KRas and NRas	HDX-MS, KRAS, NRAS, RAS inhibitors, hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, oncogenic mutants	The design of potent RAS inhibitors benefits from a molecular understanding of the dynamics in KRAS and NRAS and their oncogenic mutants. Here we characterize switch-1 dynamics in GTP-state KRAS and NRAS by (31)P NMR, by (15)N relaxation dispersion NMR, hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), and molecular dynamics simulations. In GMPPNP-bound KRAS and NRAS, we see the co-existence of two conformational states, corresponding to an "inactive" state-1 and an "active" state-2, as previously reported. The KRAS oncogenic mutations G12D, G12C and G12V only slightly affect this equilibrium towards the "inactive" state-1, with rank order wt < G12C < G12D < G12V. In contrast, the NRAS Q61R oncogenic mutation shifts the equilibrium fully towards the "active" state-2. Our molecular dynamics simulations explain this by the observation of a transient hydrogen bond between the Arg61 side chain and the Thr35 backbone carbonyl oxygen. NMR relaxation dispersion experiments with GTP-bound KRAS Q61R confirm a drastic decrease in the population of state-1, but still detect a small residual population (1.8%) of this conformer. HDX-MS indicates that higher populations of state-1 correspond to increased hydrogen-deuterium exchange rates in some regions and increased flexibility, whereas low state-1 populations are associated with KRAS rigidification. We elucidated the mechanism of action of a potent KRAS G12D inhibitor, MRTX1133. Binding of this inhibitor to the switch-2 pocket causes a complete shift of KRAS G12D towards the "inactive" conformation and prevents binding of effector RAS-binding domain (RBD) at physiological concentrations, by signaling through an allosteric network.
PXD056185	39665174	Extracellular Vesicle-Driven Crosstalk between Legume Plants and Rhizobia: The Peribacteroid Space of Symbiosomes as a Protein Trafficking Interface. 	Extracellular membrane vesicle-driven crosstalk between legume plants and rhizobia: the symbiosome space as protein trafficking interface	Extracellular membrane vesicles, bacteroid, legume, rhizobium, symbiosis, symbiosome space	Prokaryotes and eukaryotes secrete extracellular vesicles (EVs) into the surrounding milieu to preserve and transport elevated concentrations of biomolecules across long distances. EVs encapsulate metabolites, DNA, RNA, and proteins, whose abundance and composition fluctuate depending on environmental cues. EVs are involved in eukaryote-to-prokaryote communication owing to their ability to navigate different ecological niches and exchange molecular cargo between the two domains. Among the different bacterium-host relationships, rhizobium-legume symbiosis is one of the closest known to nature. A crucial developmental stage of symbiosis is the formation of N2-fixing root nodules by the plant. These nodules contain endocytosed rhizobia-called bacteroids-confined by plant-derived peribacteroid membranes. The unrestricted interface between the bacterial external membrane and the peribacteroid membrane is the peribacteroid space. Many molecular aspects of symbiosis have been studied, but the interbacterial and interdomain molecule trafficking by EVs in the peribacteroid space has not been questioned yet. Here, we unveil intensive EV trafficking within the symbiosome interface of several rhizobium-legume dual systems by developing a robust EV isolation procedure. We analyze the EV-encased proteomes from the peribacteroid space of each bacterium-host partnership, uncovering both conserved and differential traits of every symbiotic system. This study opens the gates for designing EV-based biotechnological tools for sustainable agriculture.
PXD069096	39665218	FVIII peptides presented on HLA-DP and identification of an A3 domain peptide binding with high affinity to the commonly expressed HLA-DP4. 	FVIII peptides presented on HLA-DP and identification of an A3 domain peptide binding with high affinity to the commonly expressed HLA-DP4	factor VIII, hemophilia A, immunity, inhibitors	The development of neutralizing antibodies (inhibitors) against coagulation factor VIII (FVIII) poses a major challenge in hemophilia A (HA) treatment. The formation of FVIII inhibitors is a CD4+ T-cell dependent mechanism which includes antigen presenting cells (APCs), B- and T-helper lymphocytes. APCs present FVIII derived peptides on major histocompatibility complex class II (MHC-II) to CD4+ Tcells. We previously established a mass spectrometry based approach to delineate the FVIII repertoire presented on HLA-DR and HLA-DQ. In this study, specific attention was directed towards the identification of FVIII peptides presented on HLA-DP. A data-set of naturally processed FVIII peptides was generated by incubating human FVIII with immature monocytes-derived dendritic cells (moDCs) from HLA-typed healthy donors. Using this method, we identified 176 to 1352 different HLA-DP presented peptides per donor, including 26 different FVIII derived peptides. The most frequently presented peptides derived from the A3, and C2 domains of FVIII. Comparison of the FVIII repertoire presented on HLA-DP with that presented on HLA-DR revealed considerable overlap but also suggested preferential presentation of specific peptides on either HLA-DR or HLA-DP. Fourteen FVIII peptides presented on HLA-DP were synthesized and evaluated for their binding ability to the commonly expressed HLA-DP4 molecule which is highly prevalent in the Caucasian population. Peptide binding studies showed that 7 of 14 peptides competed with a reference peptide to HLADP4. Interestingly, an A3 domain derived peptide bound with high affinity to HLA-DP4 positioning this peptide as a prime candidate for the development of novel peptide-based tolerogenic strategies for FVIII inhibitors.
PXD064154	39665677	Comparison of Partially Denatured Cytochrome c Structural Ensembles in Solution and Gas Phases Using Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry. 	Comparison of Partially Denatured Cytochrome c Structural Ensembles in Solution and Gas Phases Using Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry	gas and solution phase unfolding, ion mobility, native mass spectrometry	Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) can retain intact protein structures, but details about partially folded and unfolded protein structures during and after introduction to the gas phase are elusive. Here we use ESI-MS with chemical cross-linkers to compare denatured cytochrome c structures in both solution and gas phases. Solution phase cross-linking prior to ESI captures solution phase structures, while gas phase cross-linking through ion/ion reactions in the trap cell captures gas phase structures. Comparing the ECD fragmentation of the cross-linked products under both conditions shows very similar cross-linker identifications, alluding to no major structural dissimilarities between solution and gas structures. Molecular modeling of the denatured protein using the identified cross-linked sites as distant restraints allows for visualization of the denatured structures to pinpoint where unfolding begins. Our data suggest that cytochrome c likely begins to unfold due to interior hydrophobic expansion, followed by alpha helical unfolding. This localization of structural changes is more specific than using CCS measurements alone.
PXD031659	39665685	Evolutionary novelty of Apolipoprotein D facilitates metabolic plasticity in lepidopteran wings. 	Duplication and functional divergence of Apolipoprotein D confer lepidopteran wing metabolic benefits	Bombyx mori	Understanding metabolic plasticity of animal evolution is a fundamental challenge in evolutionary biology. Owing to the diversification of insect wing morphology and dynamic energy requirements, the molecular adaptation mechanisms underlying the metabolic pathways in wing evolution remain largely unknown. This study reveals the pivotal role of the duplicated Apolipoprotein D (ApoD) gene in lipid and energy homeostasis in the lepidopteran wing. ApoD underwent significant expansion in insects, with gene duplication and consistent retention observed in Lepidoptera. Notably, duplicated ApoD2 was highly expressed in lepidopteran wings and encoded a unique C-terminal tail, conferring distinct ligand-binding properties. Using Bombyx mori as a model organism, we integrated evolutionary analysis, multiomics, and in vivo functional experiments to elucidate the way duplicated ApoD2 mediates lipid trafficking and homeostasis via the AMP-activated protein kinase pathway in wings. Moreover, we revealed the specific expression and functional divergence of duplicated ApoD as a key mechanism regulating lipid homeostasis in the lepidopteran wing. These findings highlight an evolutionary scenario in which neofunctionalization conferred a novel role of ApoD in shaping adaptive lipid metabolic regulatory networks during wing phenotypic evolution. Overall, we provide in vivo evidence for the functional differentiation of duplicate genes in shaping adaptive metabolic regulatory networks during phenotypic evolution.
PXD046473	39667375	Molecular features of the serological IgG repertoire elicited by egg-based, cell-based, or recombinant haemagglutinin-based seasonal influenza vaccines: a comparative, prospective, observational cohort study. 	Serum antibody repertoire to influenza HA	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Plasma (B/D-HPP), ProteomeXchange project tag: Antibodies (B/D-HPP), antibody repertoire, influenza, vaccine	BACKGROUND: Egg-based inactivated quadrivalent seasonal influenza vaccine (eIIV4), cell culture-based inactivated quadrivalent seasonal influenza vaccine (ccIIV4), and recombinant haemagglutinin (HA)-based quadrivalent seasonal influenza vaccine (RIV4) have been licensed for use in the USA. In this study, we used antigen-specific serum proteomics analysis to assess how the molecular composition and qualities of the serological antibody repertoires differ after seasonal influenza immunisation by each of the three vaccines and how different vaccination platforms affect the HA binding affinity and breadth of the serum antibodies that comprise the polyclonal response. METHODS: In this comparative, prospective, observational cohort study, we included female US health-care personnel (mean age 47.6 years [SD 8]) who received a single dose of RIV4, eIIV4, or ccIIV4 during the 2018-19 influenza season at Baylor Scott & White Health (Temple, TX, USA). Eligible individuals were selected based on comparable day 28 serum microneutralisation titres and similar vaccination history. Laboratory investigators were blinded to assignment until testing was completed. The preplanned exploratory endpoints were assessed by deconvoluting the serological repertoire specific to A/Singapore/INFIMH-16-0019/2016 (H3N2) HA before (day 0) and after (day 28) immunisation using bottom-up liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry proteomics (referred to as Ig-Seq) and natively paired variable heavy chain-variable light chain high-throughput B-cell receptor sequencing (referred to as BCR-Seq). Features of the antigen-specific serological repertoire at day 0 and day 28 for the three vaccine groups were compared. Antibodies identified with high confidence in sera were recombinantly expressed and characterised in depth to determine the binding affinity and breadth to time-ordered H3 HA proteins. FINDINGS: During September and October of the 2018-19 influenza season, 15 individuals were recruited and assigned to receive RIV4 (n=5), eIIV4 (n=5), or ccIIV4 (n=5). For all three cohorts, the serum antibody repertoire was dominated by back-boosted antibody lineages (median 98% [95% CI 88-99]) that were present in the serum before vaccination. Although vaccine platform-dependent differences were not evident in the repertoire diversity, somatic hypermutation, or heavy chain complementarity determining region 3 biochemical features, antibodies boosted by RIV4 showed substantially higher binding affinity to the vaccine H3/HA (median half-maximal effective concentration [EC50] to A/Singapore/INFIMH-16-0019/2016 HA: 0.037 mug/mL [95% CI 0.012-0.12] for RIV4; 4.43 mug/mL [0.030-100.0] for eIIV4; and 18.50 mug/mL [0.99-100.0] mug/mL for ccIIV4) and also the HAs from contemporary H3N2 strains than did those elicited by eIIV4 or ccIIV4 (median EC50 to A/Texas/50/2012 HA: 0.037 mug/mL [0.017-0.32] for RIV4; 1.10 mug/mL [0.045-100] for eIIV4; and 12.6 mug/mL [1.8-100] for ccIIV4). Comparison of B-cell receptor sequencing repertoires on day 7 showed that eIIV4 increased the median frequency of canonical egg glycan-targeting B cells (0.20% [95% CI 0.067-0.37] for eIIV4; 0.058% [0.050-0.11] for RIV4; and 0.035% [0-0.062] for ccIIV4), whereas RIV4 vaccination decreased the median frequency of B-cell receptors displaying stereotypical features associated with membrane proximal anchor-targeting antibodies (0.062% [95% CI 0-0.084] for RIV4; 0.12% [0.066-0.16] for eIIV4; and 0.18% [0.016-0.20] for ccIIV4). In exploratory analysis, we characterised the structure of a highly abundant monoclonal antibody that binds to both group 1 and 2 HAs and recognises the HA trimer interface, despite its sequence resembling the stereotypical sequence motif found in membrane-proximal anchor binding antibodies. INTERPRETATION: Although all three licensed seasonal influenza vaccines elicit serological antibody repertoires with indistinguishable features shaped by heavy imprinting, the RIV4 vaccine selectively boosts higher affinity monoclonal antibodies to contemporary strains and elicits greater serum binding potency and breadth, possibly as a consequence of the multivalent structural features of the HA immunogen in this vaccine formulation. Collectively, our findings show advantages of RIV4 vaccines and more generally highlight the benefits of multivalent HA immunogens in promoting higher affinity serum antibody responses. FUNDING: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institutes of Health, and Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.
PXD055371	39670294	Comparisons of Whole Saliva and Cell Free Saliva by DIA-Based Proteome Profiling. 	Comparisons of  Whole Saliva and Cell Free Saliva by DIA-Based Proteome Profiling	Whole saliva, cell-free saliva, data-independent acquisition	BACKGROUND: Saliva has emerged as a promising diagnostic resource due to its accessibility, noninvasiveness, and repeatability, enabling early disease detection and timely intervention. However, current studies often overlook the distinction between whole saliva (WS) and cell-free saliva (CFS). Objective This study aims to compare the proteomic profiles of WS and CFS. METHOD AND RESULT: The saliva was detected with and without low-abundance protein enrichment using nanoparticles, employing DIA-MS technology. Our findings reveal a substantial enhancement in the detectability of low-abundance proteins in saliva with utilization of nanoparticles, enabling identification of 12%-15% low-abundance proteins previously undetectable in WS or CFS. In total, 3817 saliva proteins were identified, with 3413 found in WS and 2340 in CFS. More interestingly, we found that it was not the similarity of the samples that did the clustering, but rather it depended more on the different detection methods and sample types. And the predominant functions of the identified proteins in WS were related to oxidative phosphorylation and neurodegenerations, whereas those in CFS were primarily associated with nitrogen and glycosaminoglycan metabolism. And both exhibited functions in immune response and proteasome. CONCLUSION: This study represents the first comparison of WS and CFS, providing valuable experimental evidence for guiding the selection of research subjects in future saliva omics studies.
PXD049387	39670468	Preclinical Evaluation of Bavdegalutamide (ARV-110), a Novel PROteolysis TArgeting Chimera Androgen Receptor Degrader. 	Discovery of Bavdegalutamide (ARV-110), a Novel PROteolysis TArgeting Chimera Androgen Receptor Degrader	Fusion, Lumos, Orbitrap, PTMScan, VCaP	Androgen receptor (AR) signaling is the principal driver of prostate cancer, and drugs that target this pathway (e.g., abiraterone and enzalutamide) are standard treatments for metastatic hormone-sensitive prostate cancer and metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). However, continual evolution during prostate cancer progression can result in AR alterations (e.g., mutation, amplification, splicing) that can cause tumors to become resistant to these therapies. Bavdegalutamide (ARV-110) is a PROteolysis TArgeting Chimera (PROTAC(R)) protein degrader that recruits the cereblon-containing E3 ubiquitin ligase to direct the polyubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation of AR. Bavdegalutamide selectively degrades wild-type AR and most clinically relevant mutants with low nanomolar potency. The superiority of the degradation mechanism of action is demonstrated by bavdegalutamide's higher activity relative to the AR antagonist enzalutamide in cell-based systems that assess effects on prostate-specific antigen (PSA) synthesis, prostate cancer cell proliferation, and induction of apoptosis. In an AR-expressing patient-derived xenograft mouse model, bavdegalutamide showed substantial AR degradation and greater tumor growth inhibition compared with enzalutamide. Bavdegalutamide also showed robust tumor growth inhibition in enzalutamide- and abiraterone-resistant prostate cancer animal models and enhanced activity in combination with abiraterone. These promising preclinical data supported clinical development of bavdegalutamide as a potential treatment for patients with prostate cancer. Bavdegalutamide was the first PROTAC protein degrader to enter human clinical trials, specifically in patients with mCRPC in a phase 1/2 study (NCT03888612).
PXD053704	39670628	Reproducible protein quantitation of 270 human proteins at increased depth using nanoparticle-based fractionation and multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry with stable isotope-labelled internal standards. 	Reproducible protein quantitation of 270 human proteins at increased depth using nanoparticle-based fractionation and reaction monitoring mass spectrometry with stable isotope-labelled internal standards	LC/MRM-MS, Seer Proteograph, absolute quantitation, fractionation, plasma proteomics	Here we show that when using a mix of 274 light synthetic peptide standards (NAT) as surrogates for 270 human plasma proteins, as well as stable isotope-labelled standards (SIS) as normalizers (both from MRM Proteomics Inc.) for targeted quantitative analysis by liquid chromatography multiple reaction monitoring mass spectrometry (LC/MRM-MS), the Seer Proteograph(TM) platform allowed for the enrichment and absolute quantitation of up to an additional 62 targets (median) compared to two standard proteomic workflows without enrichment, representing an increase of 44%. The nanoparticle-based fractionation workflow resulted in improved reproducibility compared to a traditional proteomic workflow with no fractionation (median 8.3% vs. 13.1% CV). As expected, the protein concentrations in nanoparticle coronas were higher and had more compressed dynamic range in comparison to the concentrations determined either by a 3-hour Trypsin/LysC or overnight tryptic digestion methods. As the nanoparticle-based fractionation technology gains popularity, additional steps such as establishing technique-specific protein reference ranges across plasma samples and comparisons to well-established protein quantitation methods like enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and LC/MRM-MS may be explored to enable absolute quantification of plasma proteins based on nanoparticle-based fractionation data.
PXD057263	39672391	Cleavage of Cartilage Oligomeric Matrix Protein (COMP) by ADAMTS4 generates a neoepitope associated with osteoarthritis and other forms of degenerative joint disease. 	Cleavage of Cartilage Oligomeric Matrix Protein (COMP) by ADAMTS4 generates a neoepitope associated with osteoarthritis severity and progression	ADAMTS1, ADAMTS5, COMP, Osteoarthritis, Proteoglycan	Osteoarthritis (OA) is a highly prevalent joint disease, affecting millions of people worldwide and characterized by degradation of articular cartilage, subchondral bone remodeling and low-grade inflammation, leading to pain, stiffness and disability. Cartilage Oligomeric Matrix Protein (COMP) is a major structural component of cartilage and its degradation has been proposed as a marker of OA severity/progression. Several proteases cleave COMP in vitro, however, it is unclear which of these COMPase activities is prevalent in an osteoarthritic joint. Here, using purified recombinant proteins, we show that A Disintegrin And Metalloproteinase with Thrombospondin motifs 4 (ADAMTS4) is the most potent COMPase, followed by ADAMTS1. Using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, we identified several novel cleavage sites in COMP resulting from ADAMTS4 and ADAMTS1 activity. Cleavage at S(77)-V(78) disrupted the pentameric organization of COMP and generated a neopeptide previously identified in the synovial fluid of OA patients. Immunoblots with anti-QQS(77) antibodies confirmed that ADAMTS4 efficiently cleaved this peptide bond. By analyzing five ADAMTS4 variants, we found that the C-terminal spacer domain is strictly necessary for COMPase activity and identified the specific residues involved in the interaction with COMP. An inhibitory anti-ADAMTS4 antibody significantly decreased generation of the COMP QQS(77) neoepitope in human OA cartilage explants, implicating ADAMTS4 as a key protease in generating the QQS(77) neopeptides in OA. Since another majorADAMTS4 substrate is aggrecan, the most abundant proteoglycan in cartilage, these findings highlight that, by cleaving both COMP and aggrecan, ADAMTS4 may play a crucial role in modulating the structural integrity of cartilage.
PXD057326	39672818	Loss of Fbxo45 in AT2 cells leads to insufficient histone supply and initiates lung adenocarcinoma. 	Loss of Fbxo45 in AT2 cells leads to insufficient histone supply and initiates lung adenocarcinoma	FBXO45, Histone supply, UPF1, genomic instability	Dysregulation of histone supply is implicated in various cancers, including lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD), although the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that knockout of Fbxo45 in mouse alveolar epithelial type 2 (AT2) cells leads to spontaneous LUAD. Our findings reveal that FBXO45 is a novel cell-cycle-regulated protein that is degraded upon phosphorylation by CDK1 during the S/G2 phase. During the S phase or DNA damage repair, FBXO45 binds to UPF1 and recruits the phosphatase PPP6C, thereby inhibiting UPF1 phosphorylation. This process is crucial for preventing the degradation of replication-dependent (RD) histone mRNAs and ensuring an adequate histone supply. In the absence of FBXO45, the impaired interaction between PPP6C and UPF1 results in sustained hyperphosphorylation of UPF1 throughout the cell cycle, leading to an insufficient histone supply, chromatin relaxation, genomic instability, and an increased rate of gene mutations, ultimately culminating in malignant transformation. Notably, analysis of clinical LUAD specimens confirms a positive correlation between the loss of FBXO45 and genomic instability, which is consistent with our findings in the mouse model. These results highlight the critical role of FBXO45 as a genomic guardian in coordinating histone supply and DNA replication, providing valuable insights into potential therapeutic targets and strategies for the treatment of LUAD.
PXD052679	39673241	Catalytically inactive subgroup VIII receptor-like cytoplasmic kinases regulate the immune-triggered oxidative burst in Arabidopsis thaliana. 	Catalytically inactive subgroup VIII receptor-like cytoplasmic kinases regulate the immune-triggered oxidative burst in Arabidopsis thaliana	Protein Kinase	Protein kinases are key components of multiple cell signaling pathways. Several receptor-like cytoplasmic kinases (RLCKs) have demonstrated roles in immune and developmental signaling across various plant species, making them of interest in the study of phosphorylation-based signal relay. Here, we present our investigation of a subgroup of RLCKs in Arabidopsis thaliana. Specifically, we focus on subgroup VIII RLCKs: MAZ and its paralog CARK6, as well as CARK7 and its paralog CARK9. We found that both MAZ and CARK7 associate with the calcium-dependent protein kinase CPK28 in planta, and furthermore that CPK28 phosphorylates both MAZ and CARK7 on multiple residues in areas that are known to be critical for protein kinase activation. Genetic analysis suggests redundant roles for MAZ and CARK6 as negative regulators of the immune-triggered oxidative burst. We find evidence that supports homo- and hetero-dimerization between CARK7 and MAZ, which may be a general feature of this subgroup. Multiple biochemical experiments suggest that neither MAZ nor CARK7 demonstrate catalytic protein kinase activity in vitro. Interestingly, we find that a mutant variant of MAZ incapable of protein kinase activity can complement maz-1 mutants, suggesting noncatalytic roles of MAZ in planta. Overall, our study identifies subgroup VIII RLCKs as new players in Arabidopsis immune signaling and highlights the importance of noncatalytic functions of protein kinases.
PXD051536	39673545	Hypusination in intestinal epithelial cells protects mice from infectious colitis. 	Effect of Dhps deletion and Citrobacter rodentium on the proteome of colonic epithelial cells	Attaching and effacing pathogen, Colitis, Host-pathogen interactions, Hypusine, Infection, Mucosal immune response, Polyamines, Translation	Enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) is a bacterium that causes attaching/effacing (A/E) lesions and serious diarrheal disease, a major health issue in developing countries. EPEC pathogenicity results from the effect of virulence factors and dysregulation of host responses. Polyamines, including spermidine, play a major role in intestinal homeostasis. Spermidine is the substrate for deoxyhypusine synthase (DHPS), which catalyzes the conjugation of the amino acid hypusine to eukaryotic translation initiation factor 5A (EIF5A); hypusinated EIF5A (EIF5A(Hyp)) binds specific mRNAs and initiates translation. Our aim was to determine the role of hypusination during infection with A/E pathogens. We found that DHPS and EIF5A(Hyp) levels are induced in i) a colonic epithelial cell line and human-derived colon organoids infected with EPEC, and ii) the colon of mice infected with Citrobacter rodentium, the rodent equivalent of EPEC. Specific deletion of Dhps in intestinal epithelial cells worsened clinical, histological, and pro-inflammatory parameters in C. rodentium-infected mice. These animals also exhibited an exacerbated pathogenic transcriptome in their colon. Furthermore, infected mice with specific Dhps deletion exhibited reduced levels of proteins involved in detoxification of tissue-damaging reactive aldehydes and consequently increased electrophile adducts in the colon. Thus, hypusination in intestinal epithelial cells protects from infectious colitis mediated by A/E pathogens.
PXD057685	39674510	Electrophoresis-Correlative Ion Mobility Deepens Single-cell Proteomics in Capillary Electrophoresis Mass Spectrometry. 	Electrophoresis-Correlative Framing of Ion Mobility Deepens Single-Cell Mass Spectrometry Proteomics	Single cell, Xenopus laevis, capillary electrophoresis	Detection of trace-sensitive signals is a current challenge in single-cell mass spectrometry (MS) proteomics. Separation prior to detection improves the fidelity and depth of proteome identification and quantification. We recently recognized capillary electrophoresis (CE) electrospray ionization (ESI) for ordering peptides into mass-to-charge (m/z)-dependent series, introducing electrophoresis-correlative (Eco) data-independent acquisition. Here, we demonstrate that these correlations based on electrophoretic mobility (muef) in the liquid phase are transferred into the gas phase, essentially temporally ordering the peptide ions into charge-dependent ion mobility (IM, 1/K0) trends (rho > 0.97). Rather than sampling the entire IM region broadly, we pursued these predictable correlations to schedule narrower frames. Compared to classical ddaPASEF, Eco-framing significantly enhanced the resolution of IM MS (IMS) on a trapped ion mobility mass spectrometer (timsTOF PRO). This approach returned ~50% more proteins from HeLa proteome digests approximating to one-to-two cells, identifying ~962 proteins from ~200 pg in <20 min of effective electrophoresis, without match-between-runs. As a proof of principle, we deployed Eco-IMS on 1,157 proteins by analyzing <4% of the total proteome in single, yolk-laden embryonic stem cells (~80-mum) that were isolated from the animal cap of the South African clawed frog (Xenopus laevis). Quantitative profiling of 9 different blastomeres revealed detectable differences among these cells, which are normally fated to form the ectoderm but retain pluripotentiality. Eco-framing effectively deepens the proteome sensitivity in IMS using ddaPASEF, facilitating the proteome-driven classification of embryonic cell differentiation, as demonstrated in this report.
PXD042943	39675446	Characterization of SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid protein oligomers. 	Nucleocapsid protein from Sars-CoV-2	Covid-19, Nucleocapsid protein, SarsCoV-2	Oligomers of the SARS-CoV-2 nucleocapsid (N) protein are characterized by pronounced instability resulting in fast degradation. This property likely relates to two contrasting behaviors of the N protein: genome stabilization through a compact nucleocapsid during cell evasion and genome release by nucleocapsid disassembling during infection. In vivo, the N protein forms rounded complexes of high molecular mass from its interaction with the viral genome. To study the N protein and understand its instability, we analyzed degradation profiles under different conditions by size-exclusion chromatography and characterized samples by mass spectrometry and cryo-electron microscopy. We identified self-cleavage properties of the N protein based on specific Proprotein convertases activities, with Cl(-) playing a key role in modulating stability and degradation. These findings allowed isolation of a stable oligomeric complex of N, for which we report the 3D structure at ~6.8 Aa resolution. Findings are discussed considering available knowledge about the coronaviruses' infection cycle.
PXD054878	39675702	An SH3-binding allosteric modulator stabilizes the global conformation of the AML-associated Src-family kinase, Hck. 	An SH3-binding allosteric modulator stabilizes the global conformation of the AML-associated Src-family kinase, Hck	HCK, HDX-MS, allosteric modulator, global conformation, hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry	While ATP-site inhibitors for protein-tyrosine kinases are often effective drugs, their clinical utility can be limited by off-target activity and acquired resistance mutations due to the conserved nature of the ATP-binding site. However, combining ATP-site and allosteric kinase inhibitors can overcome these shortcomings in a double-drugging framework. Here we explored the allosteric effects of two pyrimidine diamines, PDA1 and PDA2, on the conformational dynamics and activity of the Src-family tyrosine kinase Hck, a promising drug target for acute myeloid leukemia. Using (1)H-(15)N HSQC NMR, we mapped the binding site for both analogs to the SH3 domain. Despite the shared binding site, PDA1 and PDA2 had opposing effects on near-full-length Hck dynamics by hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, with PDA1 stabilizing and PDA2 disrupting the overall kinase conformation. Kinase activity assays were consistent with these observations, with PDA2 enhancing kinase activity while PDA1 was without effect. Molecular dynamics simulations predicted selective bridging of the kinase domain N-lobe and SH3 domain by PDA1, a mechanism of allosteric stabilization supported by site-directed mutagenesis of N-lobe contact sites. Cellular thermal shift assays confirmed SH3 domain-dependent interaction of PDA1 with wild-type Hck in myeloid leukemia cells and with a kinase domain gatekeeper mutant (T338M). These results identify PDA1 as a starting point for Src-family kinase allosteric inhibitor development that may work in concert with ATP-site inhibitors to suppress the evolution of resistance.
PXD052246	39676887	Characterization of Spirulina-derived extracellular vesicles and their potential as a vaccine adjuvant. 	Isolation, Molecular Characterisation, and Immunomodulatory Effects of Extracellular Vesicles From Spirulina Microalgae	Extracellular Vesicles, Spirulina	Spirulina is an edible cyanobacterium that increasingly gaining recognition for it untapped potential in the biomanufacturing of pharmaceuticals. Despite the rapidly accumulating information on extracellular vesicles (EVs) from most other bacteria, nothing is known about Spirulina extracellular vesicles (SPEVs). This study reports the successful isolation, characterization and visualization of SPEVs for the first time and it further investigates the potential therapeutic benefits of SPEVs using a mouse model. SPEVs were isolated using ultracentrifugation and size-exclusion-chromatography. Cryo-Transmission Electron Microscopy revealed pleomorphic outer-membrane-vesicles and outer-inner-membrane-vesicles displaying diverse shapes, sizes and corona densities. To assess short- and long-term immune responses, mice were injected intraperitoneally with SPEVs, which demonstrated a significant increase in neutrophils and M1 macrophages at the injection site, indicating a pro-inflammatory effect induced by SPEVs without clinical signs of toxicity or hypersensitivity. Furthermore, SPEVs demonstrated potent adjuvanticity by enhancing antigen-specific IgG responses in mice by over 100-fold compared to an unadjuvanted model vaccine antigen. Mass-spectrometry identified 54 proteins within SPEVs, including three protein superfamily members linked to the observed pro-inflammatory effects. Our findings highlight the potential of SPEVs as a new class of vaccine adjuvant and warrant additional studies to further characterize the nature of the immune response.
PXD056029	39677520	Proteomics analysis reveals the differential impact of the p97 inhibitor CB-5083 on protein levels in various cellular compartments of the HL-60 cell line. 	Differential Impact of p97 Inhibitor CB-5083 on Protein Dynamics in Nucleus, Cytoplasm, and Membrane Compartments	CB-5083, mass spectrometry., p97 VCP, p97 inhibitor	Human p97/VCP is a vital AAA ATPase (ATPase associated with diverse cellular activity) that plays critical roles in protein homeostasis by regulating autophagy, endosomal trafficking, and the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Global proteomics analysis of p97/VCP inhibition with CB-5083 has been performed in HCT116 colon cells. Here, we examined the impact of CB-5083 treatment in another cancer model, the HL-60 acute myeloid leukemia cell line, employing subcellular fractionation combined with label-free proteomics to analyze changes in protein levels across cytoplasmic, nuclear, and insoluble membrane protein compartments. The results reveal distinct compartment-specific protein regulation, providing insight into p97/VCP's cellular mechanisms and its potential for targeted therapeutic applications.
PXD051003	39677950	Proteomic analysis of giant panda testicular tissue of different age groups. 	Proteomic analysis of giant panda testicular tissue	giant pandas, testicular tissue	Background: The reproductive ability of male giant pandas has been a major complicating factor in the ex-situ conservation of the species. While it is well known that the testis produces sperm and secretes androgens, a process that requires precise regulation of various proteins, at present, there has been no systematic study on the composition of proteins in the testis of the giant pandas. Therefore, this study aims to apply proteomics to explore the regulation of proteins in the testes of giant pandas. Methods: Samples from the testes of three giant pandas (22 years, 18 years, 8 days) were studied to assess the protein's function. A label-free quantitative method was used to isolate testicular proteins from each male, 139,039 peptides and 11,435 proteins were obtained. Results: Gene Ontology (GO) annotates most of the proteins involved in the processes of protein phosphorylation, oxidation-reduction, proteolysis, and signal transduction. KEGG pathway indicated that most of the proteins were involved in the pathway of signal transduction, transport, and catabolism. The protein kinase and WD40 repeats were involved in protein-protein interaction, which in turn regulates gene expression in the testicular tissue of giant pandas. Conclusions: This study is the first to conduct an in-depth proteomic analysis of testicular tissue in giant pandas. The results revealed the important role of proteins in testicular tissue on spermatogenesis, testosterone production, and testicular microenvironment, providing clues for further research on male giant panda reproduction.
PXD054874	39679613	Improving Glycoproteomic Analysis Workflow by Systematic Evaluation of Glycopeptide Enrichment, Quantification, Mass Spectrometry Approach, and Data Analysis Strategies. 	Improving quantitative glycoproteomics by systematic evaluation of different glycopeptide enrichment, quantification, and mass spectrometry strategies	glycoproteomics, identification, intact glycopeptide, quantification	Glycosylation is one of the most prevalent and crucial protein modifications. Quantitative site-specific characterization of glycosylation usually requires sophisticated intact glycopeptide analysis using glycoproteomics. Recent efforts have focused on the interrogation of intact glycopeptide analyses using tandem mass spectrometry. However, a systematic evaluation of the quantitative glycoproteomic workflow is still lacking. This study compared different strategies for glycopeptide enrichment alongside glycopeptide quantitation, as well as mass spectrometry and data analysis strategies, providing a comprehensive assessment of their efficacy. The ZIC-HILIC enrichment method demonstrated superior performance, representing a 26% improvement in identified glycopeptiudes compared to the MAX enrichment method. Quantification using TMT provided high precision and throughput with an average CV of 8%. Through systematic evaluation, this study established that the ZIC-HILIC enrichment method, quantification with TMT, and collision energies of 25, 35, and 45 using tandem mass spectrometry are the optimal workflow for higher-energy collisional dissociation (HCD) fragmentation, significantly enhancing the analysis of intact glycopeptides. Precise energy adjustment is crucial for the identification of certain glycans. Intact glycopeptides were analyzed using different software tools to investigate the identification and quantification of glycopeptides. By applying optimal settings, 5514 unique intact glycopeptides were in luminal and basal patient-derived xenograft (PDX) characterized models, highlighting distinct glycosylation profiles that may influence tumor behavior. This study offers a systematic approach to evaluate glycoproteomic analysis workflow.
PXD054574	39679802	Suppressed Protein Translation Caused by MSP-8 Deficiency Determines Fungal Multidrug Resistance with Fitness Cost. 	Suppressed Protein Translation Caused by MSP-8 Defect Determines Fungal Multidrug Resistance with Fitness Cost	Aspergillus fumigatus, Fungal resistance, Helicase, Neurospora crassa, Protein translation	Antifungal resistance, particularly the rise of multidrug-resistance strains, poses a significant public health threat. In this study, the study identifies a novel multidrug-resistance gene, msp-8, encoding a helicase, through experimental evolution with Neurospora crassa as a model. Deletion of msp-8 conferred multidrug resistance in N. crassa, Aspergillus fumigatus, and Fusarium verticillioides. However, the transcript levels of genes encoding known drug targets or efflux pumps remain unaltered with msp-8 deletion. Interestingly, MSP-8 interacted with ribosomal proteins, and this mutant displays compromised ribosomal function, causing translational disturbance. Notably, inhibition of protein translation enhances resistance to azoles, amphotericin B, and polyoxin B. Furthermore, MSP-8 deficiency or inhibition of translation reduces intracellular ketoconazole accumulation and membrane-bound amphotericin B content, directly causing antifungal resistance. Additionaly, MSP-8 deficiency induces cell wall remodeling, and decreases intracellular ROS levels, further contributing to resistance. The findings reveal a novel multidrug resistance mechanism independent of changes in drug target or efflux pump, while MSP-8 deficiency suppresses protein translation, thereby facilitating the development of resistance with fitness cost. This study provides the first evidence that MSP-8 participates in protein translation and that translation suppression can cause multidrug resistance in fungi, offering new insights into resistance mechanisms in clinical and environmental fungal strains.
PXD053070	39680150	Giant axonal neuropathy (GAN): cross-sectional data on phenotypes, genotypes, and proteomic signature from a German cohort. 	Giant Axonal Neuropathy (GAN): Cross-sectional data on phenotypes, genotypes and proteomics signature from a German-Austrian-Swiss cohort	GAN, White blood cells	Giant axonal neuropathy (GAN) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease affecting the peripheral and central nervous system and is caused by bi-allelic variants in the GAN gene, leading to loss of functional gigaxonin protein. A treatment does not exist, but a first clinical trial using a gene therapy approach has recently been completed. Here, we conducted the first systematic study of GAN patients treated by German-speaking child neurologists. We collected clinical, genetic, and epidemiological data from a total of 15 patients representing one of the largest cohorts described thus far. Average age of patients was 11.7 years at inclusion. The most frequently reported symptoms (HPO coded) were gait disturbance and muscle weakness, abnormality of muscle size, and abnormal reflexes. In line with the frequency of homozygous variants, in five families, parents reported being at least distantly related. In 14 patients, diagnosis was confirmed by molecular genetic testing, revealing eight different GAN variants, four being reported as pathogenic in the literature. Proteomics of white blood cells derived from four patients was conducted to obtain unbiased insights into the underlying pathophysiology and revealed dysregulation of 111 proteins implicated in diverse biological processes. Of note, diverse of these proteins is known to be crucial for proper synaptic function and transmission and affection of intermediate filament organisation and proteolysis, which is in line with the known functions of gigaxonin.
PXD052518	39681615	TelAP2 links TelAP1 to the telomere complex in Trypanosoma brucei. 	TelAP2 links TelAP1 to the telomere complex in Trypanosoma brucei		The extracellular parasite Trypanosoma brucei evades the immune system of the mammalian host by periodically exchanging its variant surface glycoprotein (VSG) coat. Hereby, only one VSG gene is transcribed from one of 15 subtelomeric so-called bloodstream form expression sites (BES) at any given timepoint, while all other BESs are silenced. VSG gene expression is altered by homologous recombination using a large VSG gene repertoire or by a so-called in situ switch, which activates a previously silent BES. Transcriptional activation, VSG switching and VSG silencing during developmental differentiation from the bloodstream form to the procyclic form present in the tsetse fly vector are tightly regulated. Due to their subtelomeric position, telomere-associated proteins are involved in the regulation of VSG expression. Three functional homologs of mammalian telomere complex proteins have been characterized thus far, and novel telomere-interacting proteins, such as telomere-associated protein 1 (TelAP1), have recently been identified. Here, we used mass spectrometry-based proteomics and interactomics approaches, telomere pull-down assays with recombinant material and immunofluorescence analysis to elucidate the interactions of 21 other putative TelAPs. We investigated the influence on VSG expression and showed that depletion of TelAPs does not ultimately lead to changes in VSG expression. Additionally, we examined the interaction patterns of four TelAPs with the TbTRF/TbTIF2/TbRAP1 telomere complex by reciprocal affinity purification. We further propose that TelAP1 interacts with Tb927.6.4330, now called TelAP2, and that TelAP1 depends on this interaction to form a complex with the telomeric proteins TbTRF, TbTIF2 and TbRAP1.
PXD056795	39684463	Action Mechanisms of Exosomes Derived from GD3/GD2-Positive Glioma Cells in the Regulation of Phenotypes and Intracellular Signaling: Roles of Integrins. 	Analysis of exosomes released from cancer-associated glycosphingolipid-expressing cancer cells	exosome, extracellular vesicles, glioma, glycosphingolipid	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) play important roles in intercellular communication in various biological events. In particular, EVs released from cancer cells have attracted special attention. Although it has been reported that cancer-associated glycosphingolipids play important roles in the enhancement of malignant properties of cancer cells, the presence, behavior, and roles of glycosphingolipids in EVs have not been elucidated. Recently, we reported crucial roles of EVs expressing gangliosides, GD2, and/or GD3 in the enhancement of cancer properties in malignant melanomas and gliomas. However, how EVs containing cancer-associated glycosphingolipids play their roles has not been reported to date. Here, we studied spatio-temporal mechanisms for GD3/GD2-containing EVs released from gliomas in the actions toward target cells. Proteome analyses of EVs with/without GD3/GD2 revealed an equally high concentration of integrin isoforms in both GD3/GD2+ and GD3/GD2- EVs. PKH26-labeled EVs attached, invaded, and distributed to/in the target cells within 1 h. GD3/GD2 formed molecular complexes with integrins on EVs as elucidated by immunoprecipitation/immunoblotting and immunocytostaining. The addition of antibodies reactive with GD3, GD2, or integrins resulted in the suppression of the enhancing effects of EVs in the cell adhesion assay. The addition of GD3/GD2 + EVs to GD3/GD2- cells clearly increased the phosphorylation levels of the PDGF receptor, FAK, and Erk1/2 in immunoblotting, suggesting GD3/GD2+ EVs activate the signaling pathway in the target cells within 15 min after addition. Anti-ganglioside antibodies clearly blocked signaling with EVs. In conclusion, EVs released from GD3/GD2-expressing glioma cells enhance cancer phenotypes and malignant signals via the cluster formation of integrins and GD3/GD2 on EVs, leading to the regulation of the cancer microenvironment.
PXD057367	39684681	The Microenvironment in an Experimental Model of Acute Pancreatitis Can Modify the Formation of the Protein Corona of sEVs, with Implications on Their Biological Function. 	The infThe inflammatory microenvironment changes the biological function of sEV by modifying the composition of their protein coronalammatory microenvironment changes the biological function of sEV by modifying the composition of their protein corona	corona, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, inflammation, pancreatitis	A considerable number of the physiological functions of extracellular vesicles are conditioned by the protein corona attached to their surface. The composition of this corona is initially defined during their intracellular synthesis, but it can be subsequently modified by interactions with the microenvironment. Here, we evaluated how the corona of small extracellular vesicles exposed to the inflammatory environment generated in acute pancreatitis is modified and what functional changes occur as a result of these modifications. Small extracellular vesicles obtained from a pancreatic cell line were incubated with the ascitic fluid generated in experimental acute pancreatitis in rats. Using proteomic techniques, we detected the appearance of new proteins and an increase the uptake of extracellular vesicles by certain cell types and the response induced in inflammatory cells. The inhibition of different pattern recognition receptors reversed this activation, indicating that some of these effects could be due to binding of damage-associated molecular patterns to the corona. All of this indicates that in pathologies such as acute pancreatitis, characterized by an inflammatory response and intense tissue damage, the microenvironment substantially influences the corona of extracellular vesicles, thus altering their behavior and enhancing their inflammatory activity.
PXD045554	39685745	Proteomic Changes of Glycolipid Pathways in Age-Related, Diabetic, and Post-Vitrectomy Cataracts. 	Proteomic changes in aqueous humor of diabetic, age-related and post-vitrectomy cataract.	Aging, Aqueous Humor, Crystallin, Cytoskeleton, Diabetes, Vitrectomy, keywords Cataract	Background: Alterations in glycolipid and glycosphingolipid pathways lead to compromised cell membranes and may be involved in cataract formation. However, the exact role of glycolipids in lens opacification is not completely understood. The aim of the current study is to investigate proteome complexity and the role of glycolipid and glycosphingolipid pathways in cataract formation. Methods: The anterior capsule and phacoemulsification (phaco) cassette contents were collected during cataract surgery from eleven participants with diabetic cataract (DC), twelve participants with age-related cataract (ARC), and seven participants with post-vitrectomy cataract (PVC). Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry with data-independent acquisition (DIA) was used for the identification and quantification of proteins. Results: The results of this study revealed that the main significantly differentially expressed pathways in the ARC group compared to the DC and PVC groups in phaco cassette samples included the glycolipid metabolic, glycosphingolipid biosynthetic, and glycosphingolipid metabolic processes, with GLA being among the most significant proteins in the ARC group. Similarly, in the anterior capsule samples, the main significantly differentially expressed pathways in the ARC group compared to the DC and PVC groups were the glycolipid metabolic, glycosphingolipid biosynthetic, and glycosphingolipid metabolic processes, with ST3GAL5 being among the most significant proteins in the ARC group. Conclusion: Glycolipid and glycosphingolipid metabolic processes may be involved in cataract formation. ST3GAL5 may modify the cell-to-cell interaction induced by cell surface sugar chains, leading to the formation and progression of cataract. GLA, associated with the breakdown of glycolipids, may lead to cataract formation when a certain threshold is surpassed, secondary to increased glycolipid metabolism.
PXD041934	39689182	Bile acid-induced metabolic changes in the colon promote Enterobacteriaceae expansion and associate with dysbiosis in Crohn's disease. 	Bile acids at host-Enterobacteriaceae interface	Bile acids, Crohn's disease, Enterobacteriaceae, Mitochondrial dysfunction	Bile acids (BAs) affect the growth of potentially pathogenic commensals, including those from the Enterobacteriaceae family, which are frequently overrepresented in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). BAs are normally reabsorbed in the ileum for recycling and are often increased in the colonic lumina of patients with IBD, including those with Crohn's disease (CD). Here, we investigated the influence of BAs on gut colonization by Enterobacteriaceae. We found increased abundance of Enterobacteriaceae in the colonic mucosae of patients with CD with a concomitant decrease in the transporters that resorb BAs in the ileum. The increase in Enterobacteriaceae colonization was greater in the colons of patients who had undergone terminal ileum resection compared with those with intact ileum, leading us to hypothesize that BAs promote intestinal colonization by Enterobacteriaceae. Exposure of human colonic epithelial cell lines to BAs reduced mitochondrial respiration, increased oxygen availability, and enhanced the epithelial adherence of several Enterobacteriaceae members. In a publicly available human dataset, mucosal Enterobacteriaceae was negatively associated with the expression of genes related to mitochondrial function. In a murine model, increased intestinal BA availability enhanced colonization by Escherichia coli in a manner that depended on bacterial respiration. Together, our findings demonstrate that BAs reduce mitochondrial respiration in the colon, leading to an increase in oxygen availability that facilitates Enterobacteriaceae colonization. This identification of BAs as facilitators of host-commensal interactions may be relevant to multiple intestinal diseases.
PXD054637	39690241	A nuclear protein quality control system for elimination of nucleolus-related inclusions. 	SILAC proteomics on MG132-induced nuclear aggregates	MG132, SILAC, nuclear inclusions, nucleolus, proteasome	The identification of pathways that control elimination of protein inclusions is essential to understand the cellular response to proteotoxicity, particularly in the nuclear compartment, for which our knowledge is limited. We report that stress-induced nuclear inclusions related to the nucleolus are eliminated upon stress alleviation during the recovery period. This process is independent of autophagy/lysosome and CRM1-mediated nuclear export pathways, but strictly depends on the ubiquitin-activating E1 enzyme, UBA1, and on nuclear proteasomes that are recruited into the formed inclusions. UBA1 activity is essential only for the recovery process but dispensable for nuclear inclusion formation. Furthermore, the E3 ligase HUWE1 and HSP70 are components of the ubiquitin/chaperone systems that promote inclusion elimination. The recovery process also requires RNA Pol I-dependent production of the lncRNA IGS42 during stress. IGS42 localises within the formed inclusions and promotes their elimination by preserving the mobility of resident proteins. These findings reveal a protein quality control system that operates within the nucleus for the elimination of stress-induced nucleolus-related inclusions.
PXD029216	39691254	Proteogenomic characterization of highly enriched viable leukemic blasts in acute myeloid leukemia: A SWOG report. 	Proteogenomic Characterization of Highly Enriched Viable Leukemic Blasts in Acute Myeloid Leukemia: A SWOG Report	AML, FACS, SILAC, TMT, fractionation	Introduction: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) remains one of the deadliest hematopoietic malignancies. A better understanding of the molecular biology governing AML may lead to improved risk stratification and facilitate the development of novel therapies. Proteins are responsible for much of the biology of cells. Several studies have examined the global proteome in bulk mononuclear cells (MNCs) from AML specimens, which are comprised a heterogenous population of cells at various stages of differentiation. Methods: Given the potential impact of the nonleukemic cells on protein expression profiles, we applied an integrative proteogenomic approach utilizing next-generation sequencing and mass spectrometry-based proteomics to identify novel protein biomarkers in unsorted MNCs and viable leukemic blasts (VLBs) isolated from blood and bone marrow specimens obtained at the time of AML diagnosis. Results: We identified significant differences in protein expression between VLBs and MNCs. Subsequent studies (N = 27) focused on proteomic profiling of VLBs that identified novel candidate biomarkers associated with mutational genotypes and clinical outcome, some of which were recapitulated in an independent cohort of patients. Using mass spectrometry, we also detected mutated protein products, some of which were predicted via in silico analyses to be potential neoantigens amenable to adoptive immunotherapy. As previously described, analyses comparing transcript and protein expression showed an overall modest correlation between mRNA and protein dataset, but enriching for genes associated with mutations significantly improved the protein-RNA correlation. Conclusion: Together, the results provide insight into the biology of VLBs and demonstrate the gains derived from examining the proteome in addition to genome and transcriptome.
PXD051674	39692319	The Exoproteome and Surfaceome of Toxigenic Corynebacterium diphtheriae 1737 and Its Response to Iron Restriction and Growth on Human Hemoglobin. 	Exoproteome and surfaceome of toxigenic Corynebacterium diphtheriae 1737 and their response to iron-restriction and growth on human hemoglobin	Corynebacterium diphtheriae, cell envelope, cell surface, differential expression, diphtheria, exoproteome, label-free quantification, proteomic profiling, surface proteome, virulence factors	Toxin-producing Corynebacterium diphtheriae strains are the etiological agents of the severe upper respiratory disease, diphtheria. A global phylogenetic analysis revealed that biotype gravis is particularly lethal as it produces diphtheria toxin and a range of other virulence factors, particularly when it encounters low levels of iron at sites of infection. To gain insight into how it colonizes its host, we have identified iron-dependent changes in the exoproteome and surfaceome of C. diphtheriae strain 1737 using a combination of whole-cell fractionation, intact cell surface proteolysis, and quantitative proteomics. In total, we identified 1414 of the predicted 2265 proteins (62%) encoded by its reference genome. For each protein, we quantified its degree of secretion and surface exposure, revealing that exoproteases and hydrolases predominate in the exoproteome, while the surfaceome is enriched with adhesins, particularly DIP2093. Our analysis provides insight into how components in the heme-acquisition system are positioned, showing pronounced surface exposure of the strain-specific ChtA/ChtC paralogues and high secretion of the species-conserved heme-binding HtaA protein, suggesting it functions as a hemophore. Profiling the response of the exoproteome and surfaceome after microbial exposure to human hemoglobin and iron limitation reveals potential virulence factors that may be expressed at sites of infection. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD051674.
PXD058135	39693348	Proteomic analysis of the sponge Aggregation Factor implicates an ancient toolkit for allorecognition and adhesion in animals. 	Proteomic analysis of the sponge (Porifera) Aggregation Factor implicates an ancient protein domain toolkit for allorecognition and adhesion in animals	aggregation factor, allorecognition, cell-cell adhesion, evolution, sponge	The discovery that sponges (Porifera) can fully regenerate from aggregates of dissociated cells launched them as one of the earliest experimental models to study the evolution of cell adhesion and allorecognition in animals. This process depends on an extracellular glycoprotein complex called the Aggregation Factor (AF), which is composed of proteins thought to be unique to sponges. We used quantitative proteomics to identify additional AF components and interacting proteins in the classical model, Clathria prolifera, and compared them to proteins involved in cell interactions in Bilateria. Our results confirm MAFp3/p4 proteins as the primary components of the AF but implicate related proteins with calx-beta and wreath domains as additional components. Using AlphaFold, we unveiled close structural similarities of AF components to protein domains in other animals, previously masked by the mutational decay of sequence similarity. The wreath domain, believed to be unique to the AF, was predicted to contain a central beta-sandwich of the same organization as the vWFD domain (also found in extracellular, gel-forming glycoproteins in other animals). Additionally, many copurified proteins share a conserved C-terminus, containing divergent immunoglobulin (Ig) and Fn3 domains predicted to serve as an AF-interaction interface. One of these proteins, MAF-associated protein 1, resembles Ig superfamily cell adhesion molecules and we hypothesize that it may function to link the AF to the surface of cells. Our results highlight the existence of an ancient toolkit of conserved protein domains regulating cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix protein interactions in all animals, and likely reflect a common origin of cell adhesion and allorecognition.
PXD054499	39694092	Increased cardiac myosin super-relaxation as an energy saving mechanism in hibernating grizzly bears. 	Identification of cardiac myosin heavy chain post-translational modifications in hibernating grizzly bears	PTM, bear, myosin	AIM: The aim of the present study was to define whether cardiac myosin contributes to energy conservation in the heart of hibernating mammals. METHODS: Thin cardiac strips were isolated from the left ventricles of active and hibernating grizzly bears; and subjected to loaded Mant-ATP chase assays, X-ray diffraction and proteomics. MAIN FINDINGS: Hibernating grizzly bears displayed an unusually high proportion of ATP-conserving super-relaxed cardiac myosin molecules that are likely due to altered levels of phosphorylation and rod region stability. CONCLUSIONS: Cardiac myosin depresses the heart's energetic demand during hibernation by modulating its function.
PXD042311	39695097	Minimizing DNA trapping while maintaining activity inhibition via selective PARP1 degrader. 	Discovery of 180055 as a PROTAC degrader for Treating Cancers	DNA trapping, PARP1 degradation, PROTAC, cancer cell	Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1) catalyzes poly (ADP) ribosylation reaction, one of the essential post-translational modifications of proteins in eukaryotic cells. Given that PARP1 inhibition can lead to synthetic lethality in cells with compromised homologous recombination, this enzyme has been identified as a potent target for anti-cancer therapeutics. However, the clinical application of existing PARP1 inhibitors is restrained by side effects associated with DNA trapping and off-target effects, highlighting the need for improved therapeutic strategies. By integrating protein degradation technology, we synthesized a PROTAC molecule 180055 based on the Rucaparib junction and VHL ligand, which efficiently and selectively degraded PARP1 and inhibited PARP1 enzyme activity without a noticeable DNA trapping effect. Furthermore, 180055 kills tumor cells carrying BRCA mutations with a minor impact on the growth of normal cells both in vitro and in vivo. This suggests that 180055 is a PARP1-degrading compound with excellent pharmacological efficacy and extremely high biological safety that deserves further exploration and validation in clinical trials.
PXD055579	39695187	Hyperphenylalaninemia and serotonin deficiency in Dnajc12-deficient mice. 	Proteomics of serotonergic autoregulation	Serotonin transporter, autoregulation, brain, serotonin, tryptophan hydroxylase	Serotonin exerts numerous neurological and physiological actions in the brain and in the periphery. It is generated by two different tryptophan hydroxylase enzymes, TPH1 and TPH2, in the periphery and in the brain, respectively, which are members of the aromatic amino acid hydroxylase (AAAH) family together with phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH), degrading phenylalanine, and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), generating dopamine. In this study, we show that the co-chaperone DNAJC12 is downregulated in serotonergic neurons in the brain of mice lacking TPH2 and thereby central serotonin. DNAJC12 has been described to regulate the stability of PAH and mutations in its gene cause hyperphenylalaninemia and neurological symptoms in patients. We show that DNAJC12 also binds and stabilizes TPH1 and TPH2 in transfected cells. In order to clarify the importance of DNAJC12 in the regulation of neurotransmitter synthesis and phenylalanine degradation in vivo, we generated DNAJC12-deficient mice. These mice show reduced levels and activity of PAH, TPH2, and TPH1 in liver, brain, and pineal gland, respectively, and experience hyperphenylalaninemia and central and peripheral serotonin deficiency. These data support a pivotal role of DNAJC12 in the regulation of AAAH and thereby in neurotransmitter synthesis and phenylalanine homeostasis.
PXD056134	39695235	Lithocholic acid binds TULP3 to activate sirtuins and AMPK to slow down ageing. 	Lithocholic acid targets TULP3-Sirtuins to  deacetylate v-ATPase and activate AMPK	AMPK, SIRTs, TULP3, lithocholic acid	Lithocholic acid (LCA) is accumulated in mammals during calorie restriction and it can activate AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) to slow down ageing(1). However, the molecular details of how LCA activates AMPK and induces these biological effects are unclear. Here we show that LCA enhances the activity of sirtuins to deacetylate and subsequently inhibit vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (v-ATPase), which leads to AMPK activation through the lysosomal glucose-sensing pathway. Proteomics analyses of proteins that co-immunoprecipitated with sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) identified TUB-like protein 3 (TULP3), a sirtuin-interacting protein(2), as a LCA receptor. In detail, LCA-bound TULP3 allosterically activates sirtuins, which then deacetylate the V1E1 subunit of v-ATPase on residues K52, K99 and K191. Muscle-specific expression of a V1E1 mutant (3KR), which mimics the deacetylated state, strongly activates AMPK and rejuvenates muscles in aged mice. In nematodes and flies, LCA depends on the TULP3 homologues tub-1 and ktub, respectively, to activate AMPK and extend lifespan and healthspan. Our study demonstrates that activation of the TULP3-sirtuin-v-ATPase-AMPK pathway by LCA reproduces the benefits of calorie restriction.
PXD048717	39695396	Combined urine proteomics and metabolomics analysis for the diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis. 	the Urine proteomics of pulmonary tuberculosis	Biomarkers, Metabolomics, Tuberculosis, Urine	BACKGROUND: Tuberculosis (TB) diagnostic monitoring is paramount to clinical decision-making and the host biomarkers appears to play a significant role. The currently available diagnostic technology for TB detection is inadequate. In the present study, we aimed to identify biomarkers for diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) using urinary metabolomic and proteomic analysis. METHODS: In the study, urine from 40 PTB, 40 lung cancer (LCA), 40 community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) patients and 40 healthy controls (HC) was collected. Biomarker panels were selected based on random forest (RF) analysis. RESULTS: A total of 3,868 proteins and 1,272 annotated metabolic features were detected using pairwise comparisons. Using AUC >= 0.80 as a cutoff value, we picked up five protein biomarkers for PTB diagnosis. The five-protein panel yielded an AUC for PTB/HC, PTB/CAP and PTB/LCA of 0.9840, 0.9680 and 0.9310, respectively. Additionally, five metabolism biomarkers were selected for differential diagnosis purpose. By employment of the five-metabolism panel, we could differentiate PTB/HC at an AUC of 0.9940, PTB/CAP of 0.8920, and PTB/LCA of 0.8570. CONCLUSION: Our data demonstrate that metabolomic and proteomic analysis can identify a novel urine biomarker panel to diagnose PTB with high sensitivity and specificity. The receiver operating characteristic curve analysis showed that it is possible to perform non-invasive clinical diagnoses of PTB through these urine biomarkers.
PXD050950	39696578	PD-1 interactome in osteosarcoma: identification of a novel PD-1/AXL interaction conserved between humans and dogs. 	Qualitative and quantitative proteomic analysis of cancer-PD1 interactome in osteosarcoma cells	PD-1, cancer-intrinsic PD-1, interactome, osteosarcoma	The PD-1/PDL-1 immune checkpoint inhibitors revolutionized cancer treatment, yet osteosarcoma remains a therapeutic challenge. In some types of cancer, PD-1 receptor is not solely expressed by immune cells but also by cancer cells, acting either as a tumor suppressor or promoter. While well-characterized in immune cells, little is known about the role and interactome of the PD-1 pathway in cancer. We investigated PD-1 expression in human osteosarcoma cells and studied PD-1 protein-protein interactions in cancer. Using U2OS cells as a model, we confirmed PD-1 expression by western blotting and characterized its intracellular as well as surface localization through flow cytometry and immunofluorescence. High-throughput analysis of PD-1 interacting proteins was performed using a pull-down assay and quantitative mass spectrometry proteomic analysis. For validation and molecular modeling, we selected tyrosine kinase receptor AXL-a recently reported cancer therapeutic target. We confirmed the PD-1/AXL interaction by immunoblotting and proximity ligation assay (PLA). Molecular dynamics (MD) simulations uncovered binding affinities and domain-specific interactions between extracellular (ECD) and intracellular (ICD) domains of PD-1 and AXL. ECD complexes exhibited strong binding affinity, further increasing for the ICD complexes, emphasizing the role of ICDs in the interaction. PD-1 phosphorylation mutant variants (Y223F and Y248F) did not disrupt the interaction but displayed varying strengths and binding affinities. Using bemcentinib, a selective AXL inhibitor, we observed reduced binding affinity in the PD-1/AXL interaction, although it was not abrogated. To facilitate the future translation of this finding into clinical application, we sought to validate the interaction in canine osteosarcoma. Osteosarcoma spontaneously occurs at significantly higher frequency in dogs and shares close genetic and pathological similarities with humans. We confirmed endogenous expression of PD-1 and AXL in canine osteosarcoma cells, with PD-1/AXL interaction preserved in the dog cells. Also, the interacting residues remain conserved in both species, indicating an important biological function of the interaction. Our study shed light on the molecular basis of the PD-1/AXL interaction with the implication for its conservation across species, providing a foundation for future research aimed at improving immunotherapy strategies and developing novel therapeutic approaches.
PXD057071	39696809	Exploration of In Situ Extraction for Enhanced Triterpenoid Production by Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Betulinic acid production with engienered Scerevisiae CENPK BA6	S. cerevisiae, betulinic acid, triterpenoids	Plant-derived triterpenoids are in high demand due to their valuable applications in cosmetic, nutraceutical, and pharmaceutical industries. To meet this demand, microbial production of triterpenoids is being developed for large-scale production. However, a prominent limitation of microbial synthesis is the intracellular accumulation, requiring cell disruption during downstream processing. Destroying the whole-cell catalyst drives up production costs and limits productivity and product yield per cell. Here, in situ product extraction of triterpenoids into a second organic phase was researched to address this limitation. An organic solvent screening identified water-immiscible isopropyl myristate as a suitable in situ extractant, enabling extraction of up to 90% of total triterpenoids from engineered Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Combining isopropyl myristate and beta-cyclodextrins improved extraction efficiency. In a first configuration, repeated batch fermentation with sequential product extraction and cell recycling resulted in 1.8 times higher production than a reference fermentation without in situ product extraction. In the second configuration, yeast cells were in contact with the second organic phase throughout a fed-batch fermentation to continuously extract triterpenoids. This resulted in 90% product extraction and an extended production phase. Further improvement of triterpenoid production was not achieved due to microbial host limitations uncovered through omics analyses.
PXD035492	39697060	Proteomic analysis for busulfan-induced spermatogenesis disorder. 	Label-free quantification of busulfan-treated testis	busulfan, label-free quantification, spermatogenesis, testis	BACKGROUND: Busulfan is the most commonly used drug for the treatment of chronic myelogenous leukemia and pretreatment for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, which can damage the reproductive and immune system. However, little is known about the protein expression profiling in busulfan treated testis. METHODS: This research studies the proteomics for busulfan-induced spermatogenesis disorder. The model of busulfan-induced mouse spermatogenesis disorder was subjected to label-free quantification proteomics analysis. Clustering heatmap, gene ontology, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway and protein interaction analyses were performed and validated by molecular experiments. RESULTS: The busulfan-treated mouse model showed abnormal testis morphology and reduced sperm number and testis weight. Testicular and sperm damage was most severe at 30 days after busulfan treatment. The busulfan-treated mouse testes were subjected to label-free quantification proteomics, which revealed 190 significantly downregulated proteins including lactate dehydrogenase A like 6B (LDHAL6B) and ubiquitin-specific protease 7 (USP7). In addition, the testis and spermatozoa in the epididymis progressively improved from 70 to 80 days after busulfan treatment, and that the testis weight and spermatozoa number gradually increased from 40 to 80 days after busulfan treatment. Western blotting revealed that LDHAL6B protein significantly increased at 10 days, decreased from 20 to 60 days, and then gradually elevated from 70 to 80 days after busulfan treatment. CONCLUSION: We revealed 190 significantly downregulated proteins in busulfan-treated mouse testes at 30 days and indicated that 70 days is the cut-off point of spermatogenic recovery for busulfan-treated mouse testis, increasing our understanding of this reproductive disorder model. An increased understanding of busulfan's toxic effect will help to prevent and treat reproductive diseases.
PXD054675	39698826	Phenotypic screens identify SCAF1 as critical activator of RNAPII elongation and global transcription. 	RNA Polymerase II interactome in presence or absence of SCAF1 in U2OS-SCAF1-AID cells	Interactome, RNAPII, SCAF1-depletion	Transcripts produced by RNA polymerase II (RNAPII) are fundamental for cellular responses to environmental changes. It is therefore no surprise that there exist multiple avenues for the regulation of this process. To explore the regulation mediated by RNAPII-interacting proteins, we used a small interfering RNA (siRNA)-based screen to systematically evaluate their influence on RNA synthesis. We identified several proteins that strongly affected RNAPII activity. We evaluated one of the top hits, SCAF1 (SR-related C-terminal domain-associated factor 1), using an auxin-inducible degradation system and sequencing approaches. In agreement with our screen results, acute depletion of SCAF1 decreased RNA synthesis, and showed an increase of Serine-2 phosphorylated-RNAPII (pS2-RNAPII). We found that the accumulation of pS2-RNAPII within the gene body occurred at GC-rich regions and was indicative of stalled RNAPII complexes. The accumulation of stalled RNAPII complexes was accompanied by reduced recruitment of initiating RNAPII, explaining the observed global decrease in transcriptional output. Furthermore, upon SCAF1 depletion, RNAPII complexes showed increased association with components of the proteasomal-degradation machinery. We concluded that in cells lacking SCAF1, RNAPII undergoes a rather interrupted passage, resulting in intervention by the proteasomal-degradation machinery to clear stalled RNAPII. While cells survive the compromised transcription caused by absence of SCAF1, further inhibition of proteasomal-degradation machinery is synthetically lethal.
PXD048896	39699961	MUC17 is an essential small intestinal glycocalyx component that is disrupted in Crohn's disease. 	Proteomics of Muc17-deficient mice small intestine epithelial cells	LFQ, Muc17, Muc3, epithelial cells, small intestine	Crohn's disease (CD) is the chronic inflammation of the terminal ileum and colon triggered by a dysregulated immune response to bacteria, but insights into specific molecular perturbations at the critical bacteria-epithelium interface are limited. Here we report that the membrane mucin MUC17 protected small intestinal enterocytes against commensal and pathogenic bacteria. In non-inflamed CD ileum, reduced MUC17 levels and a compromised glycocalyx barrier allowed recurrent bacterial contact with enterocytes. Muc17 deletion in mice rendered the small intestine particularly prone to atypical bacterial infection while maintaining resistance to colitis. The loss of Muc17 resulted in spontaneous deterioration of epithelial homeostasis and in the extra-intestinal translocation of bacteria. Finally, Muc17-deficient mice harbored specific small intestinal bacterial taxa observed in CD patients. Our findings highlight MUC17 as an essential regiospecific line of defense in the small intestine with relevance for early epithelial defects in CD.
PXD040996	39700143	Hyperosmolarity-induced suppression of group B1 Raf-like protein kinases modulates drought-growth trade-off in Arabidopsis. 	B1Raf_Phosphoproteome_Raw_Data	DDA, HAMMOC, LFQ, phosphoproteome	When plants are exposed to drought stress, there is a trade-off between plant growth and stress responses. Here, we identified a signaling mechanism for the initial steps of the drought-growth trade-off. Phosphoproteomic profiling revealed that Raf13, a B1 subgroup Raf-like kinase, is dephosphorylated under drought conditions. Raf13 and the related B1-Raf Raf15 are required for growth rather than the acquisition of osmotolerance. We also found that Raf13 interacts with B55-family regulatory subunits of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), which mediates hyperosmolarity-induced dephosphorylation of Raf13. In addition, Raf13 interacts with an AGC kinase INCOMPLETE ROOT HAIR ELONGATION HOMOLOG 1 (IREH1), and Raf13 and IREH1 have similar functions in regulating cellular responses that promote plant growth. Overall, our results support a model in which Raf13-IREH1 activity promotes growth under nonstressed conditions, whereas PP2A activity suppresses Raf13-IREH1 during osmotic stress to modulate the physiological "trade-off" between plant growth and stress responses.
PXD050591	39700228	Sodium butyrate is incorporated into central metabolism in fly head while inducing oxygen consumption increase. 	Sodium butyrate is incorporated into central metabolism in fly head while inducing oxygen consumption increase	Butyrate, Drosophila, oxygen consumption	Butyrate has been proposed as a drug therapy by acting as a lysine deacetylase (KDAC) inhibitor and elevating protein acetylation, in particular on histones. Nonetheless, recent studies suggest that tissues such as the gut can utilize butyrate as a metabolite. We have previously shown that the addition of butyrate induces a rapid increase of oxygen consumption in whole Drosophila melanogaster heads. Here we show that while head oxygen consumption is increased by the addition of butyrate, no apparent changes are observed on the proteome and acetylome. Instead, we show that butyrate is metabolized and incorporated into the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. Collectively our data supports the notion that the therapeutic benefits of acute butyrate treatment may be also mediated by improving metabolic rates, rather than solely targeting the epigenome or acetylome.
PXD053035	39701585	Development of an Optimized LC-MS Workflow for Host Cell Protein Characterization to Support Upstream Process Development. 	Development of an optimized LC-MS workflow  for Host Cell Protein characterization to support  upstream process development	Chinese hamster ovary, Host cell proteins, LC-MS, absolute  quantification, bio-processing, clarified cell culture fluid, data-independent acquisition, hi3  quantification, process analytical technologies	Host cell proteins (HCPs) coexpressed during the production of biotherapeutics can affect the safety, efficacy, and stability of the final product. As such, monitoring HCP populations and amounts throughout the production and purification process is an essential part of the overall quality control framework. Mass spectrometry (MS) is used as an orthogonal method to enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) for the simultaneous identification and quantification of HCPs, particularly for the analysis of downstream processes. In this study, we present an MS-based analytical protocol with improvements in both speed and identification performance that can be implemented for routine analysis to support upstream process development. The protocol adopts a streamlined sample preparation strategy, combined with a high-throughput MS analysis pipeline. The developed method identifies and quantifies over 1000 HCPs, including 20 proteins listed as high risk in the literature, in a clarified cell culture sample with repeatability and precision shown for digest replicates. In addition, we explore the effects of varying standard spike-ins and changes to the data processing pipeline on absolute quantification estimates of the HCPs, which highlight the importance of standardization for wider use in the industry. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD053035.
PXD057342	39702268	Designing strong inducible synthetic promoters in yeasts. 	Peptide mapping and intact mass analysis of RBD protein from a SARS-CoV-2 omicron variant (RBDom) 	RBD, intact mass analysis, omicron, peptide mapping	Inducible promoters are essential for precise control of target gene expression in synthetic biological systems. However, engineering eukaryotic promoters is often more challenging than engineering prokaryotic promoters due to their greater mechanistic complexity. In this study, we describe a simple and reliable approach for constructing strongly inducible synthetic promoters with minimum leakiness in yeasts. The results indicate that the leakiness of yeast-inducible synthetic promoters is primarily the result of cryptic transcriptional activation of heterologous sequences that may be avoided by appropriate insulation and operator mutagenesis. Our promoter design approach has successfully generated robust, inducible promoters that achieve a > 10(3)-fold induction in reporter gene expression. The utility of these promoters is demonstrated by using them to produce various biologics with titers up to 2 g/L, including antigens designed to raise specific antibodies against a SARS-CoV-2 omicron variant through chicken immunization.
PXD054896	39703232	Insights into the regulation of CHIP E3 ligase-mediated ubiquitination of neuronal protein BNIP-H. 	Insights into the regulation of CHIP E3 ligase-mediated ubiquitination of neuronal protein BNIP-H	E3-ligase, HDX-MS, Ubiquitination	BCL2/adenovirus E1B 19-kDa protein-interacting protein 2 homolog (BNIP-H or Caytaxin), a pivotal adaptor protein that facilitates cerebellar cortex growth and synaptic transmission, is posttranslationally modified to regulate neuronal function. This study reports the ubiquitination of BNIP-H by Carboxyl terminus of Hsc70-Interacting Protein (CHIP), a U-box containing E3 ligase that is also regulated via autoubiquitination. Specifically, it was observed that CHIP autoubiquitinated itself primarily at Lys23 and Lys31 in vitro. Mutation of these residues shows the autoubiquitination of successive lysines of CHIP. In total, nine lysines on CHIP were identified as the autoubiquitination sites, the collective mutation of which almost completely terminated its autoubiquitination. Additionally, CHIP-mediated ubiquitination of BNIP-H is completely inhibited when BNIP-H bears arginine mutations at four key lysine residues. Next, using hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, a model of a plausible mechanism was proposed. The model suggests transient N-terminal interactions between the CHIP and BNIP-H which allows for the swinging of U-box domain of CHIP to ubiquitinate BNIP-H. Following complex dissociation, BNIP-H population is regulated via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Collectively, these results aid in our understanding of CHIP-mediated BNIP-H ubiquitination and provide further insight into the roles of these proteins in neuritogenesis and neurotransmission.
PXD058429	39703372	Unique Leishmania mexicana clones secrete populations of extracellular vesicles with unique protein profile and variable infectious capability. 	Unique Leishmania mexicana clones secrete populations of extracellular vesicles with unique protein profile and variable infectious capability	Leismania mexicana, clonal cultures, exosomes, extracellular vesicles, infectious disease	The study of extracellular vesicles has become an incredibly important field of study, but the inherent heterogeneity of these vesicles continues to make their study challenging. The genetic variability and well-documented protocols for the growth and vesicle isolation from Leishmania parasites provide a unique opportunity to compare the heterogeneity of different populations secreted by Leishmania clones. Leishmania mexicana was cultured on solid SDM agar plates and 8 clonal colonies were selected. The EVs collected from the liquid cultures of these 8 clones were assessed by NTA, TEM, and proteomic analysis. We found that all 8 clonal L. mexicana cultures were visually indistinguishable from each other and had similar growth rate, and these physical similarities extended to their EVs. However, proteomic analysis reveals that the EVs collected have unique protein profiles compared to each other and EVs isolated from a heterogeneous liquid culture of L. mexicana. We selected 3 clonal EVs for further mouse infection experiments and found that EVs from CL7 L. mexicana consistently caused reduced footpad swelling in C57BL6 mice footpads compared to EVs from CL1, CL8, and heterogenous L. mexicana. This trend was not observed when infecting Balb/C mice and C57BL6 with the parasites alone, with only CL1 L. mexicana causing significantly increased infection in Balb/c mice. Our results together show that EVs isolated from different clonal colonies of L. mexicana have distinct differences in protein cargo which can lead to varying outcomes on Leishmania infection. Further evaluation will be needed to determine the underlying mechanisms behind this and verify that differences observed in infectivity are directly caused by variations between our L. mexicana clones, especially genetic sequencing and immunoblotting to validate our results.
PXD053509	39703998	The proximity interactome of PML isoforms I and II under fatty acid stress. 	EXPLORING THE INTERACTOME OF PML NUCLEAR SUBDOMAINS DURING FATTY ACID STRESS USING APEX2-MEDIATED PROXIMITY LABELING	APEX2, COPII, Lipid-Associated PML Structures, Nuclear Lipid Droplet, Promyelocytic Leukemia, Proximity-Dependent Biotin Identification	Promyelocytic leukemia (PML) protein forms the scaffold for PML nuclear bodies (PML NB) that reorganize into Lipid-Associated PML Structures (LAPS) under fatty acid stress. We determined how the fatty acid oleate alters the interactome of PMLI or PMLII by expressing fusions with the ascorbate peroxidase APEX2 in U2OS cells. The resultant interactome included ESCRT and COPII transport protein nodes. Proximity ligation assay (PLA) revealed that COPII proteins SEC23B, SEC24A and USO1 preferentially associated with PML NBs. Nuclear localization of USO1, but not SEC23B and SEC24A, was reduced in PML knockout cells and restored by PMLII expression. Thus, proximity-labelling methods identified COPII transport protein interactions with PML NBs that are disrupted by fatty acid stress.
PXD057319	39704561	Activity-Based Proteome Profiling of Serum Serine Hydrolases: Application in Pediatric Abusive Head Trauma. 	Activity based proteome profiling of serum serine hydrolases: application in pediatric abusive head trauma	Activity based proteome profilling, serum	PURPOSE: Traumatic brain injury (TBI), including pediatric abusive head trauma (AHT), is the leading cause of death and disability in children and young adults worldwide. The current understanding of trauma-induced molecular changes in the brain of human subjects with intracranial hemorrhage (ICH) remains inadequate and requires further investigation to improve the outcome and management of TBI in the clinic. Calcium-mediated damage at the site of brain injury has been shown to activate several catalytic enzymes. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Serine hydrolases (SHs) are major catalytic enzymes involved in the biochemical pathways of blood coagulation, systemic inflammation, and neuronal signaling. Here, we investigated activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) coupled to liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) by measuring the activity status of SH enzymes in the serum of infants with severe ICH as a consequence of AHT or atraumatic infants who died of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). RESULTS: Our proof-of-principle study revealed significantly reduced physiological activity of dozens of metabolic SHs in the serum of infants with severe AHT compared to the SIDS group, with some of the enzymes being related to neurodevelopment and basic brain metabolism. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: To our knowledge, this is the first study to investigate the ABPP of the SHs enzyme family to detect changes in their physiological activity in blood serum in severe TBI. We used antemortem (AM) serum from infants under the age of 2 years who were victims of AHT with a severe form of ICH. The analytical approach used in the proof-of-principle study shows reduced activities of serum serine lipases in AHT cases and could be further investigated in mild forms of AHT, which currently show 30% of misdiagnosed cases in clinics.
PXD043442	39705356	Molecular basis for plasma membrane recruitment of PI4KA by EFR3. 	HDX-MS Analysis of the PI4K EFR3A Complex	EFR3A, Fam126A, HDX-MS, PI4Ka, TTC7B	The lipid kinase phosphatidylinositol 4 kinase III alpha (PI4KIIIalpha/PI4KA) is a master regulator of the lipid composition and asymmetry of the plasma membrane. PI4KA exists primarily in a heterotrimeric complex with its regulatory proteins TTC7 and FAM126. Fundamental to PI4KA activity is its targeted recruitment to the plasma membrane by the lipidated proteins EFR3A and EFR3B. Here, we report a cryogenic electron microscopy structure of the C terminus of EFR3A bound to the PI4KA-TTC7B-FAM126A complex, with extensive validation using both hydrogen deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, and mutational analysis. The EFR3A C terminus undergoes a disorder-order transition upon binding to the PI4KA complex, with an unexpected direct interaction with both TTC7B and FAM126A. Complex disrupting mutations in TTC7B, FAM126A, and EFR3 decrease PI4KA recruitment to the plasma membrane. Multiple posttranslational modifications and disease linked mutations map to this site, providing insight into how PI4KA membrane recruitment can be regulated and disrupted in human disease.
PXD050944	39705401	In-depth mass-spectrometry reveals phospho-RAB12 as a blood biomarker of G2019S LRRK2-driven Parkinson's disease. 	Phospho-proteome analysis of PBMCs in LRRK2 mutation carriers: expansion & validation of findings of the Barcelona LRRK2 Biorepository	G2019S, LRRK2 mutations, PBMCs, Parkinsons disease, R1441G, phosphoproteome	Leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) inhibition is a promising disease-modifying therapy for LRRK2-associated Parkinson's disease (L2PD) and idiopathic PD (iPD). However, pharmaco-dynamic readouts and progression biomarkers for clinical trials aiming for disease modification are insufficient since no endogenous marker reflecting enhanced kinase activity of the most common LRRK2 G2019S mutation has been reported yet in L2PD patients. Employing phospho-/proteomic analyses we assessed the impact that LRRK2 activating mutations had in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from a LRRK2 clinical cohort from Spain (n=174). The groups of study encompassed G2019S L2PD patients (n=37), non-manifesting LRRK2 mutation carriers of G2019S, here, G2019S L2NMCs (n=27), R1441G L2PD patients (n=14), R1441G L2NMCs (n=11), iPD patients (n=40), and healthy controls (n=45). We identified 207 differential proteins in G2019S L2PD compared to controls (39 up/168 down) and 67 in G2019S L2NMCs (10 up/57 down). G2019S down-regulated proteins affected the endolysosomal pathway, proteostasis, and mitochondria, e.g., ATIC, RAB9A, or LAMP1. At the phospho-proteome level, we observed increases in endogenous phosphorylation levels of pSer106 RAB12 in G2019S carriers, which were validated by immunoblotting after 1 year of follow-up (n=48). Freshly collected PBMCs from 3 G2019S L2PD, 1 R1441G L2PD, 1 iPD, and 5 controls (n=10) showed strong diminishment of pSer106 RAB12 phosphorylation levels after in-vitro administration of the MLi-2 LRRK2 inhibitor. Using machine learning, we identified an 18-feature G2019S phospho-/protein signature discriminating G2019S L2PD, L2NMCs, and controls with 96% accuracy that correlated with disease severity, i.e., UPDRS-III motor scoring. Using easily accessible PBMCs from a LRRK2 clinical cohort, we identified elevated levels of pSer106 RAB12 as an endogenous biomarker of G2019S carriers. Our data suggest that monitoring pSer106 RAB12 phosphorylation could be a relevant biomarker for tracking LRRK2 activation, particularly in G2019S carriers. Future work may determine whether pSer106 RAB12 could help with patient enrichment and monitoring drug efficacy in LRRK2 clinical trials.
PXD057741	39706051	Pre-ribosomal WDR74 module coordinates the early and late pre-rRNA processing stages for the NVL2-mediated regulation of 60S ribosome biogenesis. 	Nuclear VCP-like 2 (NVL2)-associated complex	NVL2	WD repeat domain 74 (WDR74) is a nucleolar protein involved in the early stages of pre-60S maturation in the ribosome biogenesis pathway. In later stages, WDR74 interacts with MTR4, an RNA helicase that functions with the exosome nuclease complex, and is dissociated upon ATP hydrolysis by the chaperone-like nuclear VCP-like 2 (NVL2) AAA-ATPase. We previously reported that ATP hydrolysis-defective NVL2 causes aberrant accumulation of WDR74 on the MTR4-exosome complex at the nucleolar periphery and in the nucleoplasm and that this nuclear redistribution of WDR74 leads to the unusual cleavage of the early rRNA precursor within the internal transcribed spacer 1 sequence. However, the precise mechanisms underlying this NVL2-mediated regulation is largely obscure. In this study, co-immunoprecipitation combined with mass spectrometry revealed that WDR74 functions as part of a pre-ribosomal subcomplex, termed the WDR74 module, consisting of eukaryotic conserved WDR74, RPF1, MAK16, and RRP1. Each component of the WDR74 module was mutually essential for the interaction of other members with MTR4, and all components were required for the accurate cleavage of pre-rRNA during 60S ribosome biogenesis. Moreover, impaired release of WDR74 from the MTR4-exosome complex caused by NVL2 dysfunction prevented MTR4 from recruiting PICT1, an MTR4 adaptor protein required for the 3'-end maturation of 5.8S rRNA. Our results highlight the key role of the WDR74 module in coordinating the early pre-rRNA cleavage and late processing of pre-5.8S rRNAs.
PXD050185	39706271	ADP-ribosyltransferase-based biocatalysis of non-hydrolyzable NAD+ analogs. 	Pertussis toxin-catalyzed auto- and trans-ADP-ribosylation	ADP-ribosylation, pertussis toxin	Enzyme promiscuity is the ability of an enzyme to catalyze an unexpected side reaction in addition to its main reaction. Here, we describe a biocatalytic process to produce non-hydrolyzable NAD+ analogs based on the ADP-ribosyltransferase (ART) activity of pertussis toxin PtxS1 subunit. First, in identical manner to normal catalysis, PtxS1 activates NAD+ to form the reactive oxocarbenium cation. Subsequently, the electrophilic ribose 1' carbon of the oxocarbenium cation is subject of an attack by the nitrogen atom of an amino group coupled to nicotinamide mimicking compounds. The nitrogen atom acts as the nucleophile instead of the natural sulfur atom substrate of the human Galphai protein. The invention builds on structural data indicating the presence of an NAD+ analog, benzamide amino adenine dinucleotide (BaAD), at the NAD+ binding site of PtxS1. This was witnessed upon co-crystallization of PtxS1 with NAD+ and 3-aminobenzamide (3-AB). A pharmacophore-based screening on 3-AB followed by quantum mechanical simulations identified analogs of 3-AB with capacity to react with the oxocarbenium cation. Based on HPLC and mass spectrometry, we confirmed the formation of BaAD by PtxS1, and also identified two new chemical entities. We name the new entities as isoindolone amine adenine dinucleotide (IiaAD), and isoquinolinone amine adenine dinucleotide (IqaAD), the latter being a highly fluorescent compound. The new NAD+ analogs emerge as valuable tools to study the structural biology and enzymology of NAD+ binding and consuming enzymes, such as human poly(ADP-ribose) polymerases (PARPs) and bacterial ART exotoxins, and to advance the ongoing drug development efforts.
PXD048561	39707743	Rebalancing the seed proteome following deletion of vicilin-related genes in pea (Pisum sativum L.). 	3. Rebalancing the proteome of pea seeds following deletion of vicilin-related genes in pea (Pisum sativum L.)	amino acid profile, genetic deletion, mutagenesis, pea seed, vicilin	Null mutations for genes encoding a major seed storage protein in pea, vicilin, were sought through screening a fast-neutron mutant population. Deletion mutations at four or five vicilin loci, where all vicilin genes within each locus were deleted, were combined to address the question of how removal or reduction of a major storage protein and potential allergen might impact the final concentration of protein per unit mature seed weight, seed yield and viability. While the concentration of seed protein was not reduced in mature seeds of mutant lines, indicative of a re-balancing of the proteome, notable differences were apparent in the metabolite, proteomic and amino acid profiles of the seeds, as well as in some functional properties. Major effects of the deletions on the proteome were documented. The genomic regions which were deleted were defined by whole genome sequencing of the parental line, JI2822 and its quintuple vicilin null derivative, providing a comprehensive description of each vicilin locus and its genic arrangement. An annotated reference genome has been generated for JI2822, which will serve as a very valuable resource for the research community and support further study of the associated deletion mutant population.
PXD052028	39708910	Development of a high-throughput platform for quantitation of histone modifications on a new QTOF instrument. 	Development of a high-throughput (10 minute microflow gradient) platform for quantitation of histone modifications on a new QTOF instrument 	epigenetics	Histone post-translational modifications (PTMs) regulate gene expression patterns through epigenetic mechanisms. The 5 histone proteins (H1, H2A, H2B, H3, and H4) are extensively modified, with over 75 distinct modification types spanning more than 200 sites. Despite strong advances in mass spectrometry-based approaches, identification and quantification of modified histone peptides remains challenging due to factors such as isobaric peptides, pseudo-isobaric PTMs, and low stoichiometry of certain marks. Here we describe the development of a new high-throughput method to identify and quantify over 150 modified histone peptides by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). Fast gradient microflow liquid chromatography and variable window SWATH data-independent acquisition on a new quadrupole time-of-flight platform is compared to a previous method using nanoflow LC-MS on an Orbitrap hybrid. Histones extracted from cells treated with either a histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi) or TGF-beta 1 were analyzed by data-independent acquisition (DIA) on two mass spectrometers: an Orbitrap Exploris 240 with a 55-minute nanoflow LC gradient, and the SCIEX ZenoTOF 7600 with a 10-minute microflow gradient. To demonstrate the reproducibility and speed advantage of the method, 100 consecutive injections of one sample were performed in less than 2 days on the QTOF platform. The result is the comprehensive characterization of histone PTMs achieved in less than 20 minutes of total run time using only 200 ng of sample. Results for drug-treated histone samples are comparable to those produced by the previous method and can be achieved using less than one-third of the instrument time.
PXD052721	39710003	1700030J22RIK is essential for sperm flagellar function and male fertility in mice. 	Proteomics analysis in 1700030J22Rik-/- mouse sperm	mouse sperm LFQ	Spermiogenesis is an indispensable process occurring during the later stages of spermatogenesis. Despite multiple proteins being associated with spermiogenesis, the molecular mechanisms that control spermiogenesis remain poorly characterized. In this study, we show that 1700030J22RIK is exclusively expressed in the testis of mice and investigate its roles in spermiogenesis using genetic and proteomic approaches. The deficiency in 1700030J22RIK in male mice results in severe subfertility, characterized by a substantial decrease in sperm concentration, motility, and abnormalities in the flagella. Furthermore, 1700030J22RIK interacts with the A-kinase-anchoring protein AKAP3, and 1700030J22RIK knockout decreases AKAP3 and AKAP4 protein levels. Additionally, the absence of 1700030J22RIK alters spermatozoal levels of the subunits of protein kinase A, leading to reduced protein phosphorylation and impaired sperm motility. This study reveals that 1700030J22RIK plays a crucial role in the organization of sperm morphology and function in mice.
PXD056682	39711175	Embracing native diversity to enhance the maximum quantum efficiency of photosystem II in maize. 	Embracing native diversity to enhance maximum quantum efficiency of photosystem II in maize (Zea mays L.)	Maize, Zea Mays	The sustainability of maize cultivation would benefit tremendously from early sowing, but is hampered by low temperatures during early development in temperate climates. We show that allelic variation within the gene encoding subunit M of the NADH-dehydrogenase-like (NDH) complex (ndhm1) in a European maize landrace affects several quantitative traits that are relevant during early development in cold climates through NDH-mediated cyclic electron transport around photosystem I, a process crucial for photosynthesis and photoprotection. Beginning with a genome-wide association study for maximum potential quantum yield of photosystem II in dark-adapted leaves (Fv/Fm), we capitalized on the large phenotypic effects of a hAT transposon insertion in ndhm1 on multiple quantitative traits (early plant height [EPH], Fv/Fm, chlorophyll content, and cold tolerance) caused by the reduced protein levels of NDHM and associated NDH components. Analysis of the ndhm1 native allelic series revealed a rare allele of ndhm1 that is associated with small albeit significant improvements of Fv/Fm, photosystem II efficiency in light-adapted leaves (PhiPSII), and EPH compared with common alleles. Our work showcases the extraction of favorable alleles from locally adapted landraces, offering an efficient strategy for broadening the genetic variation of elite germplasm by breeding or genome editing.
PXD055296	39712897	Anaerobic Faecalicatena spp. degrade sulfoquinovose via a bifurcated 6-deoxy-6-sulfofructose transketolase/transaldolase pathway to both C2- and C3-sulfonate intermediates. 	Proteomics Faecalicatena sp. DSM22707, Glucose vs Sulfoquinovose	Faecalicatena, Glucose, Sulfoquinovose	Plant-produced sulfoquinovose (SQ, 6-deoxy-6-sulfoglucose) is one of the most abundant sulfur-containing compounds in nature and its bacterial degradation plays an important role in the biogeochemical sulfur and carbon cycles and in all habitats where SQ is produced and degraded, particularly in gut microbiomes. Here, we report the enrichment and characterization of a strictly anaerobic SQ-degrading bacterial consortium that produces the C2-sulfonate isethionate (ISE) as the major product but also the C3-sulfonate 2,3-dihydroxypropanesulfonate (DHPS), with concomitant production of acetate and hydrogen (H2). In the second step, the ISE was degraded completely to hydrogen sulfide (H2S) when an additional electron donor (external H2) was supplied to the consortium. Through growth experiments, analytical chemistry, genomics, proteomics, and transcriptomics, we found evidence for a combination of the 6-deoxy-6-sulfofructose (SF) transketolase (sulfo-TK) and SF transaldolase (sulfo-TAL) pathways in a SQ-degrading Faecalicatena-phylotype (family Lachnospiraceae) of the consortium, and for the ISE-desulfonating glycyl-radical enzyme pathway, as described for Bilophila wadsworthia, in an Anaerospora-phylotype (Sporomusaceae). Furthermore, using total proteomics, a new gene cluster for a bifurcated SQ pathway was also detected in Faecalicatena sp. DSM22707, which grew with SQ in pure culture, producing mainly ISE, but also 3-sulfolacate (SL) 3-sulfolacaldehyde (SLA), acetate, butyrate, succinate, and formate, but not H2. We then reproduced the growth of the consortium with SQ in a defined co-culture model consisting of Faecalicatena sp. DSM22707 and Bilophila wadsworthia 3.1.6. Our findings provide the first description of an additional sulfoglycolytic, bifurcated SQ pathway. Furthermore, we expand on the knowledge of sulfidogenic SQ degradation by strictly anaerobic co-cultures, comprising SQ-fermenting bacteria and cross-feeding of the sulfonate intermediate to H2S-producing organisms, a process in gut microbiomes that is relevant for human health and disease.
PXD053244	39716806	PX-12 modulates vorinostat-induced acetylation and methylation marks in CAL 27 cells. 	PX-12 Modulates Vorinostat-induced acetylation and methylation marks in CAL 27 cells	Histone acetylation, Vorinostat, histone methylation, hypoxia, oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC)	AIM: The hypoxic tumor microenvironment (TME) in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is primarily regulated by hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF-1alpha), impacting histone acetylation and methylation, which contribute to drug resistance. Vorinostat, a histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi), de-stabilizes HIF-1alpha, while PX-12, a thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1) inhibitor, prevents HIF-1alpha accumulation. Combining HDACi with a Trx-1 inhibitor may enhance efficacy and reduce resistance by increasing reactive oxygen species (ROS) in cancer cells. This study examines how PX-12 influences vorinostat-induced histone modifications under hypoxia in the OSCC cell line CAL 27 using mass spectrometry. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The OSCC cell line CAL 27 was used to assess histone post-translational modifications induced by PX-12 and Vorinostat under hypoxic conditions through mass spectrometry. RESULTS: The proteomic analysis (ProteomeXchange identifier PXD053244) revealed several crucial histone marks, such as H3K4me1, H3K9ac, H3K9me, H3K14ac, H3K27me, H3K36me, H4K12Ac, and H4K16ac. Along with site-specific histone modifications, exposure of cells to vorinostat and PX-12 alone or in combination affects the global acetylation and methylation levels under hypoxia. CONCLUSION: Mass spectrometry-based proteomics highlighted the impact of vorinostat and PX-12 on histone acetylation and methylation, offering valuable insights into the epigenetic mechanisms in OSCC and paving a way for epigenetic-based oral cancer therapeutics.
PXD050739	39716856	Nuclear Control of Mitochondrial Homeostasis and Venetoclax Efficacy in AML via COX4I1. 	Regulation of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation and venetoclax efficacy in AML via COX4I1	COX4I1, leukemia, mitochondria	Cell signaling pathways are enriched for biological processes crucial for cellular communication, response to external stimuli, and metabolism. Here, a cell signaling-focused CRISPR screen identified cytochrome c oxidase subunit 4 isoform 1 (COX4I1) as a novel vulnerability in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Depletion of COX4I1 hindered leukemia cell proliferation and impacted in vivo AML progression. Mechanistically, loss of COX4I1 induced mitochondrial stress and ferroptosis, disrupting mitochondrial ultrastructure and oxidative phosphorylation. CRISPR gene tiling scans, coupled with mitochondrial proteomics, dissected critical regions within COX4I1 essential for leukemia cell survival, providing detailed insights into the mitochondrial Complex IV assembly network. Furthermore, COX4I1 depletion or pharmacological inhibition of Complex IV (using chlorpromazine) synergized with venetoclax, providing a promising avenue for improved leukemia therapy. This study highlights COX4I1, a nuclear encoded mitochondrial protein, as a critical mitochondrial checkpoint, offering insights into its functional significance and potential clinical implications in AML.
PXD057808	39718025	Small-angle X-ray scattering of engineered antigen-binding fragments: the case of glycosylated Fab from the Mannitou IgM antibody. 	Small angle X-ray scattering of engineered antigen-binding fragments: the case of glycosylated Fab from the Mannitou IgM antibody	Glycosylation, IgM, Maniitou	Monoclonal antibodies recognizing nonprotein antigens remain largely underrepresented in our understanding of the molecular repertoire of innate and adaptive immunity. One such antibody is Mannitou, a murine IgM that recognizes paucimannosidic glycans. In this work, we report the production and purification of the recombinant antigen-binding fragment (Fab) of Mannitou IgM (Mannitou Fab) and employ a combination of biochemical and biophysical approaches to obtain its initial structural characterization. To this end, recombinant Mannitou Fab comprising the light chain (VL-CL) and heavy chain (VH-Cmu1) was produced in HEK293 FreeStyle cells and purified by cobalt-affinity chromatography followed by size-exclusion chromatography (SEC), which revealed two distinct oligomeric states consistent with a predominant monomeric form and a minor dimeric form. We employed SEC inline with multi-angle light scattering (SEC-MALS) and SEC coupled to small-angle X-ray scattering (SEC-SAXS) to establish that Mannitou Fab indeed adopts monomeric and dimeric forms in solution. Interestingly, Mannitou Fab is N-glycosylated at Asn164 of the heavy chain via HexNAc(5)Hex(6)Fuc(1-3) as revealed by mass spectrometry. We leveraged this information in conjunction with predicted structures of Mannitou Fab to facilitate the interpretation and modelling of SAXS data, leading to a plausible model for glycosylated Mannitou Fab. Analysis of the two chromatographically isolatable forms of Mannitou Fab using synchrotron-radiation circular dichroism revealed that the heat-denaturated Mannitou Fab monomer shares similar secondary-structural elements with the Mannitou Fab dimer, indicating that the latter may be misfolded. Collectively, the findings of this study will set the stage for future structural studies of Mannitou Fab and contribute to our understanding of possible side products due to misfolding during the production of recombinant Fabs, highlighting the importance of glycosylation in obtaining stable and monodisperse monomeric forms of recombinant Fabs.
PXD048575	39718710	SWATH-MS insights on sodium butyrate effect on mAbs production and redox homeostasis in CHO cells. 	SWATH-MS insights on butyric acid effect on mAbs production and redox homeostasis in CHO cells.	Butyric acid, CHO cells, REDOX, SWATH-MS, mabs production	Sodium butyrate (NaBu), well-known as a histone deacetylase inhibitor and for its capacity to impede cell growth, can enhance the production of a specific protein, such as an antibody, in recombinant Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cell cultures. In this study, two CHO cell lines, namely K1 and DG44, along with their corresponding mAb-producing lines, K1-Pr and DG44-Pr, were cultivated with or without NaBu. A SWATH-based profiling method was employed to analyze the proteome. Cells cultured in the presence of NaBu exhibited a reduction in mitosis and gene expression, supported by their culture data demonstrating growth inhibition. The presence of NaBu corresponded to upregulation of intracellular trafficking and secretion pathways, aligned with an observed increase in mAb production, and was associated with an elevated glycosylation pathway and a slight alteration in the glycosylation profile of the mAbs. Increased fatty acid oxidation, redox interactions, and lipid biosynthesis were also observed and are likely attributable to the metabolism of NaBu. A comprehensive understanding of the systemic effects of NaBu will facilitate the discovery of strategies to enhance or prolong the productivity of CHO cells.
PXD046961	39719207	Effects of ALS-associated 5'tiRNA(Gly-GCC) on the transcriptomic and proteomic profile of primary neurons in vitro. 	Effects of ALS-associated tRNA-derived stress-induced RNA on the transcriptomic and proteomic profile of primary neurons in vitro	ALS, Neurons., RNA, Transcriptome	tRNA-derived stress-induced RNAs (tiRNAs) are a new class of small non-coding RNA that have emerged as important regulators of cellular stress responses. tiRNAs are derived from specific tRNA cleavage by the stress-induced ribonuclease angiogenin (ANG). Loss-of-function mutations in the ANG gene are linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and elevated levels of specific tiRNAs were recently identified in ALS patient serum samples. However, the biological role of tiRNA production in neuronal stress responses and neurodegeneration remains largely unknown. Here, we investigated the genome-wide regulation of neuronal stress responses by a specific tiRNA, 5'tiRNA(Gly-GCC), which we found to be upregulated in primary neurons exposed to ALS-relevant stresses and in the spinal cord of three ALS mouse models. Whole-transcript RNA sequencing and label-free mass spectrometry on primary neurons transfected with a synthetic mimic of 5'tiRNA(Gly-GCC) revealed predominantly downregulated RNA and protein levels, with more pronounced changes in the proteome. Over half of the downregulated mRNAs contained predicted 5'tiRNA(Gly-GCC) binding sites, indicating that this tiRNA may silence target genes via complementary binding. On the proteome level, we observed reduction in proteins involved in translation initiation and ribosome assembly, pointing to inhibitory effects on translation. Together, these findings suggest that 5'tiRNA(Gly-GCC) is an ALS-associated tiRNA that functions to fine-tune gene expression and supress protein synthesis as part of an ANG-induced neuronal stress response.
PXD056890	39719529	Age-associated aberrations of the cumulus-oocyte interaction and in the zona pellucida structure reduce fertility in female mice. 	Proteomic dataset of ZP proteins from young- and middle-aged mice	Aging, Female reproduction, Fertilization, The zona pellucida	One of the major age-related declines in female reproductive function is the reduced quantity and quality of oocytes. Here we demonstrate that structural changes in the zona pellucida (ZP) were associated with decreased fertilization rates from 34- to 38-week-old female mice, equivalent to the mid-reproductive of human females. In middle-aged mouse ovaries, the decline in the number of transzonal projections was accompanied by a decrease in cumulus cell-oocyte interactions, resulting in a deterioration of the oocyte quality. Scanning electron microscopy showed the ZP surface microfilament structure transitioning from rugged to smooth with aging, leading to decreased fertilization rates due to impaired sperm binding to the ZP. Moreover, the fertilization rate of middle-aged mice was restored to a comparable level to that of young mice by destabilizing the ZP in the presence of glutathione. These results suggest that the age-related structural changes in the ZP are key for successful fertilization at reproductive age.
PXD044968	39720525	SLP2 and MIC13 synergistically coordinate MICOS assembly and crista junction formation. 	The interactome of human MIC13, a subunit of MICOS complex	MIB, MICOS, mitochondria	The MICOS complex, essential for cristae organization, comprises MIC10 and MIC60 subcomplexes, with MIC13 as a crucial subunit. MIC13 mutations cause severe mitochondrial hepato-encephalopathy, cristae defects, and MIC10-subcomplex loss. We demonstrate that depletion of the mitochondrial protease YME1L in MIC13 KO stabilizes MIC10-subcomplex, restoring MIC60-MIC10 interaction and crista junction (CJ) defects, indicating MIC13 is crucial for MIC10-subcomplex stabilization rather than MIC60-MIC10 bridging. We identified stomatin-like protein 2 (SLP2) as a key MIC13 interaction partner, essential for cristae morphology and CJ formation. SLP2 serves as an interaction hub for MICOS subunits and stabilizes MIC26 by protecting it from YME1L-mediated degradation. Deleting both SLP2 and MIC13 impairs MIC60-subcomplex assembly and its nanoscale organization. Restoring the MIC10-subcomplex in MIC13-SLP2 double KO cells through YME1L depletion reinstates MIC60-subcomplex assembly and cristae morphology. Overall, we propose SLP2 and the MIC10-subcomplex act as a proteolytically controlled 'seeder' complex, facilitating MICOS-MIB complex assembly and maintaining mitochondrial integrity.
PXD057090	39722009	RBIS regulates ribosome biogenesis to affect progression in lung adenocarcinoma. 	RBIS regulates ribosome biogenesis to affect progression in lung adenocarcinoma	HEK293T cells, RBIS overexpression	BACKGROUND: Increased ribosome biogenesis is required for tumor growth. In this study, we investigated the function and underlying molecular mechanism of ribosome biogenesis factor (RBIS) in the progression of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). METHODS: In our study, we conducted a comprehensive analysis to identify key genes implicated in ribosome biogenesis by leveraging a Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) dataset. Subsequently, we performed a comparative analysis of gene expression profiles by utilizing data from the Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) datasets to ascertain differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between cancerous and adjacent non-cancerous tissues. Through the intersection of gene sets derived from GSEA and GEO, we identified a cohort of ribosome-associated genes that might exert a substantial influence on the progression of lung adenocarcinoma. Following an extensive literature review, we have identified the RBIS gene as an interesting candidate for further investigation. To elucidate the in vitro functional role of RBIS, several assays was employed, including the Transwell migration and invasion assay, wound healing assay, Cell Counting Kit-8 (CCK-8) proliferation assay, and colony formation assay. Subcutaneous and tail vein injection-based lung metastasis xenograft tumor models were used in evaluating the tumorigenic potential, growth, and metastatic spread of lung cancer cells. Flow cytometry analysis was employed to investigate cell cycle distribution and apoptotic rates. Additionally, real-time quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) was utilized to quantify the mRNA expression levels of genes. To comprehensively assess the translational efficiency of nascent proteins, we employed polysome profiling analysis to provide insights into the cellular translational landscape. Furthermore, we quantified global protein synthesis using a fluorescence-based assay to measure protein synthesis rates. The immunofluorescence technology was utilized to study the subcellular reorganization of the nucleolus. We conducted co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assays followed by Western blot analysis to identify potential proteins interacted with RBIS. The half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) was used for evaluating the chemosensitivity of lung cancer cells to gemcitabine. Additionally, the colony formation assay was employed to assess the survival and proliferative capacity post-treatment of gemcitabine. RESULTS: The database analysis showed that RBIS was upregulated in lung adenocarcinoma, and its high expression was associated with poor prognosis; Knockdown of RBIS significantly inhibited NSCLC cell migration, invasion and proliferation in vitro and xenograft tumor growth and metastasis in vivo. Additionally, knockdown of RBIS led to G0/G1 phase arrest and significantly increased apoptosis in lung adenocarcinoma cells. Mechanistically, downregulation of RBIS significantly decreased the expression of 47S ribosomal RNA (rRNA), a component associated with ribosome assembly. Polysome profiling analysis indicated that RBIS knockdown affected protein translation efficiency, and global protein synthesis assay further verified that RBIS knockdown inhibited synthesis of newborn proteins. Additionally, the ribosomal biogenesis-targeting drugs CX-5461 and the loss of RBIS exhibited synergistic effects in inhibiting cell cycle progression and inducing apoptosis. Furthermore, the ribosomal maturation factor GNL2 was identified as the key downstream regulator of RBIS in ribosome biogenesis. Notably, knockdown of RBIS substantially increased the sensitivity of lung adenocarcinoma cells to the chemotherapeutic drug gemcitabine, highlighting its l role in chemotherapy. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, these studies suggested the close involvement of RBIS in the progression of lung adenocarcinoma, providing new insights for targeted therapeutic interventions involving ribosomes.
PXD052799	39723610	TGF-beta regulates the release of breast cancer cell-derived extracellular vesicles and the sorting of their protein cargo by downregulating RAB27B expression. 	TGF-beta regulates the release of breast cancer cell-derived extracellular vesicles and the sorting of their protein cargo by downregulating RAB27B expression	RAB27B, TGF-beta, extracellular vesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are important mediators of intercellular communication in the tumour microenvironment. The cytokine transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) facilitates cancer progression via EVs secreted by cancer cells, which act on recipient cells in the tumour microenvironment. However, the mechanisms of how TGF-beta affects cancer cell EV release and composition are incompletely understood. Here, we systematically investigate the effects of TGF-beta on the release and protein composition of EVs from breast cancer cells. TGF-beta suppresses the transcription of RAB27B mediated by SMAD3 and thereby hampers EV release. Using click chemistry and quantitative proteomics, we found that TGF-beta increases the quantity of protein cargo and changes the composition of EVs by downregulating RAB27B expression. The recomposed EVs, induced by TGF-beta or RAB27B depletion, inhibit CD8(+) T cell-mediated breast cancer killing. Our findings reveal the critical roles of TGF-beta and RAB27B in cancer development by regulating EV release and composition and thus provide potential targets to improve cancer immunotherapy.
PXD052082	39724071	Tagless LysoIP for immunoaffinity enrichment of native lysosomes from clinical samples. 	Tagless LysoIP method for molecular profiling of lysosomal content in clinical samples	DIA, Lipidomics, Lysosomal storage disorder, Lysosome, Metabolomics	Lysosomes are implicated in a wide spectrum of human diseases including monogenic lysosomal storage disorders (LSDs), age-associated neurodegeneration and cancer. Profiling lysosomal content using tag-based lysosomal immunoprecipitation (LysoTagIP) in cell and animal models has substantially moved the field forward, but studying lysosomal dysfunction in human patients remains challenging. Here, we report the development of the 'tagless LysoIP' method, designed to enable the rapid enrichment of lysosomes, via immunoprecipitation, using the endogenous integral lysosomal membrane protein TMEM192, directly from clinical samples and human cell lines (e.g., induced pluripotent stem cell derived neurons). Isolated lysosomes were intact and suitable for subsequent multimodal omics analyses. To validate our approach, we applied the tagless LysoIP to enrich lysosomes from peripheral blood mononuclear cells derived from fresh blood of healthy donors and patients with CLN3 disease, an autosomal recessive neurodegenerative LSD. Metabolic profiling of isolated lysosomes revealed massive accumulation of glycerophosphodiesters (GPDs) in patients' lysosomes. Interestingly, a patient with a milder phenotype and genotype displayed lower accumulation of lysosomal GPDs, consistent with their potential role as disease biomarkers. Altogether, the tagless LysoIP provides a framework to study native lysosomes from patient samples, identify disease biomarkers, and discover human-relevant disease mechanisms.
PXD053735	39725826	Plasma biomarkers in patients with age-related sarcopenia: a proteomic exploration and experimental validation. 	Plasma Proteomics in Patients with Age-related Sarcopenia	sarcopenia	BACKGROUND: Various biomarkers associated with sarcopenia have been identified. However, there is a scarcity of studies exploring and validating biomarkers in individuals with age-related sarcopenia. AIMS: This study aimed to investigate the proteome and identify potential biomarkers for age-related sarcopenia. METHODS: Proteomic analysis and experimental validation were conducted using plasma from hospitalized older adults. Sarcopenia diagnosis was based on the Asian Working Group for Sarcopenia 2019 criteria. Data-independent acquisition-based proteomics was performed on plasma from 60 participants, with 30 diagnosed with sarcopenia and 30 without sarcopenia. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were selected and evaluated by Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) analysis. Biomarker candidates were further quantitatively validated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) utilizing plasma from 6 participants with sarcopenia and 6 without sarcopenia. RESULTS: A total of 39 DEPs were identified and 12 DEPs were selected for ROC analysis. 8 DEPs were included for ELISA validation based on their predictive performance. Paraoxonase-3 (PON3) consistently showed down-regulation in the sarcopenic group across both methodologies. Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein-2 (IGFBP2) showed inconsistency in the sarcopenic group, with up-regulation observed in proteomic analysis but down-regulation in ELISA. DISCUSSION: Decline in PON3 may result in an overload of oxidative stress in skeletal muscles and contribute to sarcopenia. Protein modifications of IGFBP2 might exhibit during sarcopenia pathogenesis. CONCLUSIONS: Plasma proteins are implicated in sarcopenia pathogenesis. PON3 is highlighted as a potential biomarker for patients with age-related sarcopenia. Further studies are imperative to gain an in-depth understanding of PON3 and IGFBP2.
PXD058131	39725908	Integrated proteomics and metabolomics network analysis across different delivery modes in human pregnancy: a pilot study. 	Proteomics and metabolomics of different delivery modes in human pregnancy	delivery modes, metabolomics	BACKGROUND: Delivery mode has been linked to child health, e.g., allergic disease. However, it remains unclear whether protein and metabolite differences across different delivery modes may underlie child development. METHODS: A cohort comprising 16 spontaneous onset vaginal delivery (VD), 16 prelabor cesarean delivery on maternal request (CS), and 8 intrapartum cesarean section (Intra_CS) women were analyzed using label-free proteomic and untargeted metabolomics assays on amniotic fluid and cord blood samples, respectively. We used weighted gene co-expression network analyses (WGCNA) to identify modules of highly correlated proteins or metabolites that associated with delivery modes and related clinical traits. KEGG enrichment analyses were performed to investigate the biological function of the identified modules. Integrative multiomics analysis was employed to examine the biological interplay between proteomic and metabolic interactions. RESULTS: Compared to the CS group, the proteomic and metabolomic profiles were similar between the Intra_CS and VD groups in our study. We did not identify any enriched protein or metabolite pathways related to immune development that could influence the risk of allergic diseases in offspring across different delivery modes. However, we identified seven protein modules correlated with the duration from the rupture of the membranes to full dilation of the cervix, with the actin cytoskeleton module significantly enriched. A metabolic module in cord blood that correlated with VD was enriched in subclasses including C21 steroids, steroid sulfates, and oxysterols. Integrative analysis of proteomic and metabolomic data suggested pathways related to mode of delivery and duration of labor, encompassing the actin cytoskeleton, NADP metabolic process, nicotinate, and nicotinamide metabolism in amniotic fluid, and the steroid hormone biosynthesis pathway in cord blood. CONCLUSIONS: Differences in steroid hormones and the actin cytoskeleton pathway according to proteomics and metabolomics in amniotic fluid and cord blood were more indicative of the labor process. These findings could guide future studies on delivery-associated biochemical pathways.
PXD057987	39726278	The nuclear sulfenome of Arabidopsis: spotlight on histone acetyltransferase GCN5 regulation through functional thiols. 	The nuclear sulfenome of Arabidopsis: spotlight on histone acetyltransferase GCN5 regulation through functional thiols	GCN5, dimedone, sulfenylation	In aerobic life forms, reactive oxygen species (ROS) are produced by the partial reduction of oxygen during energy-generating metabolic processes. In plants, ROS production increases during periods of both abiotic and biotic stress, severely overloading the antioxidant systems. Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) plays a central role in cellular redox homeostasis and signaling by oxidising crucial cysteines to sulfenic acid, which is considered a biologically relevant post-translational modification (PTM). Until now, the impact of the nucleus on cellular redox homeostasis has been relatively unexplored. The regulation of histone-modifying enzymes by oxidative PTMs at redox-sensitive cysteine or tyrosine residues is particularly intriguing because it allows the integration of redox signaling mechanisms with chromatin control of transcriptional activity. One of the most extensively studied histone acetyltransferases is the conserved GENERAL CONTROL NONDEPRESSIBLE 5 (GCN5) complex. This study investigated the nuclear sulfenome in Arabidopsis thaliana by expressing a nuclear variant of the Yeast Activation Protein-1 (YAP1) probe and identified 225 potential redox-active proteins undergoing S-sulfenylation. Mass spectrometry analysis further confirmed the S-sulfenylation of GCN5 at cysteines 293, 368, and 400, and their functional significance and impact on the GCN5 protein-protein interaction network were assessed using cysteine-to-serine mutagenesis.
PXD055294	39727155	ProQ-associated small RNAs control motility in Vibrio cholerae. 	ProQ-associated small RNAs control motility in Vibrio cholerae	Vibrio cholerae, bacteria, flagellins, in-gel digest	Gene regulation at the post-transcriptional level is prevalent in all domains of life. In bacteria, ProQ-like proteins have emerged as important RNA chaperones facilitating RNA stability and RNA duplex formation. In the major human pathogen Vibrio cholerae, post-transcriptional gene regulation is key for virulence, biofilm formation, and antibiotic resistance, yet the role of ProQ has not been studied. Here, we show that ProQ interacts with hundreds of transcripts in V. cholerae, including the highly abundant FlaX small RNA (sRNA). Global analyses of RNA duplex formation using RIL-Seq (RNA interaction by ligation and sequencing) revealed a vast network of ProQ-assisted interactions and identified a role for FlaX in motility regulation. Specifically, FlaX base-pairs with multiple sites on the flaB flagellin mRNA, preventing 30S ribosome binding and translation initiation. V. cholerae cells lacking flaX display impaired motility gene expression, altered flagella composition and reduced swimming in liquid environments. Our results provide a global view on ProQ-associated RNA duplex formation and pinpoint the mechanistic and phenotypic consequences associated with ProQ-associated sRNAs in V. cholerae.
PXD048215	39727191	Autophosphorylation of the Tousled-like kinases TLK1 and TLK2 regulates recruitment to damaged chromatin via PCNA interaction. 	Autophosphorylation of Tousled-like kinases (TLK1 and TLK2) regulates recruitment to damaged chromatin via PCNA interaction (Tandem Affinity Purification coupled to LC-MS/MS of SFB-TLK1 133-208 and 133-208 Y149A F150A)	Tandem Affinity purification, Tousled-Like Kinases	Tousled-like kinases 1 and 2 (TLK1 and 2) are cell cycle-regulated serine/threonine kinases that are involved in multiple biological processes. Mutation of TLK1 and 2 confer neurodegenerative diseases. Recent studies demonstrate that TLK1 and 2 are involved in DNA repair. However, there is no direct evidence that TLK1 and 2 function at DNA damage sites. Here, we show that both TLK1 and TLK2 are hyper-autophosphorylated at their N-termini, at least in part, mediated by their homo- or hetero- dimerization. We found that TLK1 and 2 hyper-autophosphorylation suppresses their recruitment to damaged chromatin. Furthermore, both TLK1 and 2 associate with PCNA specifically through their evolutionarily conserved non-canonical PCNA-interacting protein (PIP) box at the N-terminus, and mutation of the PIP-box abolishes their recruitment to DNA damage sites. Mechanistically, the TLK1 and 2 hyper-autophosphorylation masks the PIP-box and negatively regulates their recruitment to the DNA damage site. Overall, our study dissects the detailed genetic regulation of TLK1 and 2 at damaged chromatin, which provides important insights into their emerging roles in DNA repair.
PXD056495	39728945	The Venom of Vipera ammodytes ammodytes: Proteomics, Neurotoxic Effect and Neutralization by Antivenom. 	The venom of Vipera ammodytes ammodytes: proteomics, neurotoxic effect and neutralization by antivenom	Vipera, snake, venom	Deep proteomic analyses identified, in total, 159 master proteins (with 1% FDR and 2 unique peptides) from 26 protein families in the venom of Vipera ammodytes ammodytes (Vaa). Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD056495. The relative abundance of PLA2s is 11.60% of the crude venom, of which 4.35% are neurotoxic Ammodytoxins (Atxs). The neurotoxicity of the venom of Vaa and the neutralizing effect of the antivenom were tested on the neuromuscular preparation of the diaphragm (NPD) of rats. The activity of PLA2 in the venom of Vaa and its neutralization by the antivenom were determined under in vitro conditions. The Vaa venom leads to a progressive decrease in NPD contractions. We administered pre-incubated venom/antivenom mixtures at various ratios of 1:2, 1:10 and 1:20 (w/w) and observed the effects of these mixtures on NPD contractions. The results show that the mean effective time (ET50) for NPD contractions with the 1:20 mixture is highly significantly different (p < 0.001) from the ET50 for the venom and the ET50 for the 1:2 and 1:10 mixture ratios. We also found a highly significant (p < 0.001) reduction in Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity in the NPD under the influence of the venom. The reduction in the activity of this enzyme was reversible by the antivenom. Under in vitro conditions, we have achieved the complete neutralization of PLA2 by the antivenom. In conclusion, the antivenom abolished the venom-induced progressive decrease in NPD contractions in a concentration-dependent manner. Antivenom with approximately the same mass proportion almost completely restores Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity in the NPD and completely neutralizes the PLA2 activity of the venom in vitro.
PXD059259	39729359	N-acetylation of alpha-synuclein enhances synaptic vesicle clustering mediated by alpha-synuclein and lysophosphatidylcholine. 	N-acetylation of alpha-synuclein enhances synaptic vesicle clustering mediated by alpha-synuclein and lysophosphatidylcholine	DOPS, LPC, N-acetylation, alpha-synuclein	Previously, we reported that alpha-synuclein (alpha-syn) clusters synaptic vesicles (SV) Diao et al., 2013, and neutral phospholipid lysophosphatidylcholine (LPC) can mediate this clustering Lai et al., 2023. Meanwhile, post-translational modifications (PTMs) of alpha-syn such as acetylation and phosphorylation play important yet distinct roles in regulating alpha-syn conformation, membrane binding, and amyloid aggregation. However, how PTMs regulate alpha-syn function in presynaptic terminals remains unclear. Here, based on our previous findings, we further demonstrate that N-terminal acetylation, which occurs under physiological conditions and is irreversible in mammalian cells, significantly enhances the functional activity of alpha-syn in clustering SVs. Mechanistic studies reveal that this enhancement is caused by the N-acetylation-promoted insertion of alpha-syn's N-terminus and increased intermolecular interactions on the LPC-containing membrane. N-acetylation in our work is shown to fine-tune the interaction between alpha-syn and LPC, mediating alpha-syn's role in synaptic vesicle clustering.
PXD058067	39730001	Mechanism of enhancing chemotherapy efficacy in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma with paricalcitol and hydroxychloroquine. 	Mechanism of enhancing chemotherapy efficacy in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma with paricalcitol and hydroxychloroquine	gemcitabine, hydroxychloroquine, pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, paricalcitol	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) has a minimal (<15%) 5-year existence, in part due to resistance to chemoradiotherapy. Previous research reveals the impact of paricalcitol (P) and hydroxychloroquine (H) on altering the lysosomal fusion, decreasing stromal burden, and triggering PDAC to chemotherapies. This investigation aims to elucidate the molecular properties of the H and P combination and their potential in sensitizing PDAC to gemcitabine (G). PH potentiates the effects of G in in vitro, orthotopic mouse models, and a patient-derived xenograft model of PDAC. Proteomic and single-cell RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) analyses reveal that GPH treatment upregulates autophagy and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-related transcripts. GPH treatment decreases the number of Ki67, fibroblast-associated protein (FAP), and alpha-smooth muscle actin (SMA)-expressing fibroblasts with a decrease in autophagy-related transcripts. The GPH treatment increases M1 polarization and CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells and reduces CD4(+) and CD8(+) regulatory T cells (Tregs). These effects of GPH were confirmed in paired biopsies obtained from patients treated in a clinical trial (NCT04524702).
PXD054789	39730062	Receptor-independent regulation of Galpha13 by alpha-1-antitrypsin C-terminal peptides. 	GNA13 - peptide interaction analysis (GST-tag co-purification)	alpha-1-antitrypsin, guanine nucleotide-binding protein	Alpha-1-antitrypsin (AAT), a circulating serine protease inhibitor, is an acute inflammatory response protein with anti-inflammatory functions. The C-terminal peptides of AAT are found in various tissues and have been proposed as putative bioactive peptides with multiple functions, but its mechanism of action remains unclear. We previously reported that a mouse AAT C-terminal peptide of 35 amino acids (mAAT-C1-35) penetrates plasma membrane and associates guanine nucleotide-binding protein subunit alpha 13 (Galpha13). Here, we show that mAAT-C1-35 binds directly to the guanosine diphosphate (GDP)-bound form of Galpha13 through the N-terminal region (mAAT-C1-17), thereby facilitating the interaction of Galpha13.GDP with its effector proteins. The minimal sequence (mAAT-C3-16) and essential amino acid residue (Phe11) of mAAT-C1-17 were identified as being necessary for this effect. A molecular dynamics simulation for the Galpha13.GDP-mAAT-C1-17 complex model showed that binding of mAAT-C1-17 to the region surrounded by switch regions of Galpha13 stabilizes the flexible switch II and III regions, thereby maintaining their active conformation. In addition, mAAT-C1-35 activates the Galpha13 signalling pathway in cells where Phe11 is required. Our study reveals the structure-based mechanism of action of AAT-C peptides in the regulation of Galpha13, and demonstrates that AAT-C peptides represent a biological peptide capable of activating G protein signals in a manner that is independent of G-protein-coupled receptors.
PXD051051	39732735	Comprehensive Mass Spectral Libraries of Human Thyroid Tissues and Cells. 	Comprehensive mass spectral libraries of human thyroid tissue and cells	Thyroid, cell line, spectral library, tissue	Thyroid nodules are a common endocrine condition with an increasing incidence over the decades. Data-independent acquisition has been widely utilized in discovery proteomics to identify disease biomarkers and therapeutic targets. To analyze the thyroid disease-related proteome in a high-throughput, reproducible and reliable manner, we introduce thyroid-specific peptide spectral libraries. Here, we generated four deep-coverage libraries through four mass spectrometers comprising Q Exactive HF, Orbitrap Exploris 480, ZenoTOF 7600, and timsTOF Pro. These libraries encompass over 215,000 precursors, 172,000 peptides, and 12,000 proteins, derived from 245 tissue samples across nine histological types and 50 cell lines across six histological types. Moreover, the spectral libraries are applied to nine types of thyroid samples to facilitate the exploration of disease-specific proteins. Our spectral libraries serve as a valuable resource for analyzing thyroid protein content, facilitating deeper insights into thyroid disorders.
PXD042958	39732784	Large-scale proteogenomics characterization of microproteins in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. 	Large-scale proteogenomics characterization of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis hidden proteome	microproteins, proteogenomics, small orfs, tuberculosis	Tuberculosis remains a burden to this day, due to the rise of multi and extensively drug-resistant bacterial strains. The genome of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) strain H37Rv underwent an annotation process that excluded small Open Reading Frames (smORFs), which encode a class of peptides and small proteins collectively known as microproteins. As a result, there is an overlooked part of its proteome that is a rich source of potentially essential, druggable molecular targets. Here, we employed our recently developed proteogenomics pipeline to identify novel microproteins encoded by non-canonical smORFs in the genome of Mtb using hundreds of mass spectrometry experiments in a large-scale approach. We found protein evidence for hundreds of unannotated microproteins and identified smORFs essential for bacterial survival and involved in bacterial growth and virulence. Moreover, many smORFs are co-expressed and share operons with a myriad of biologically relevant genes and play a role in antibiotic response. Together, our data presents a resource of unknown genes that play a role in the success of Mtb as a widespread pathogen.
PXD053787	39733107	T cell induced expression of Coronin-1A facilitates blood-brain barrier transmigration of breast cancer cells. 	T Lymphocytes induce the expression of Coronin-1A in breast cancer cells enabling the transmigration through a blood-brain-barrier model	blood-brain barrier, brain metastasis, breast cancer, coronin-1A, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry	In previous work we discovered that T lymphocytes play a prominent role in the rise of brain metastases of ER-negative breast cancers. In the present study we explored how T lymphocytes promote breast cancer cell penetration through the blood brain barrier (BBB). An in vitro BBB model was employed to study the effects of T lymphocytes on BBB trespassing capacity of three different breast carcinoma cell lines. Differential protein expression was explored by comparing the proteomes of the breast cancer cells before and after co-culture with activated T lymphocytes using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS). siRNA was used to silence protein expression in the breast cancer cells to study contribution to in vitro BBB passage. Furthermore, protein expression in primary breast cancer tissues was explored and related to brain-metastatic potential. Co-culturing with activated T lymphocytes or their conditioned medium (CM) resulted in increased passage through the in vitro BBB. The effects were less for cell line MDA-MB-231-B2M2 (brain affinity) as compared to MDA-MB-231 and SK-BR-7. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics revealed significant alterations in the expression of 35 proteins by the breast cancer cell lines upon T cell contact. Among the proteins is coronin-1 A, a protein related to cell motility. Knockdown of CORO1A in the breast cancer cells reduced their ability to cross the artificial BBB to 60%. The effects were significantly less for the cell line derived from breast cancer with affinity for brain. The expression of coronin-1A was confirmed by immunohistochemistry and RT-PCR of 52 breast cancer samples of patients with metastasized breast cancers, with and without brain locations. Lastly, CORO1A upregulation was validated in a publicly available mRNA expression database from 204 primary breast cancers with known metastatic sites. We conclude that T lymphocytes trigger cancer cells to express proteins including coronin-1A that enable the cancer cells to cross an in vitro BBB. In addition, a prominent role of coronin-1A in the formation of cerebral metastases in breast cancer patients is strongly suggestive by its upregulation in tissue samples of breast cancer patients with brain metastases.
PXD051446	39733518	ASB1 engages with ELOB to facilitate SQOR ubiquitination and H2S homeostasis during spermiogenesis. 	Identification of ASB1 interacting proteins by LC-MS/MS	ASB1, IP	Male infertility, frequently driven by oxidative stress, impacts half of infertile couples globally. Despite its significance, the precise mechanisms governing this process remain elusive. In this study, we demonstrate that ASB1, the substrate recognition subunit of a ubiquitin ligase, is highly expressed in the mouse testis. Mice lacking the Asb1 gene exhibit severe fertility impairment, characterized by oligoasthenoteratozoospermia. Subsequent investigations unveiled that Asb1 knockout (Asb1-KO) mice encountered excessive oxidative stress and decreased hydrogen sulfide (H2S) levels in their testes, and severe sperm DNA damage. Notably, the compromised fertility and sperm quality in Asb1-KO mice was significantly ameliorated by administering NaHS, a H2S donor. Mechanistically, ASB1 interacts with ELOB to induce the instability of sulfide-quinone oxidoreductase (SQOR) by enhancing its K48-linked ubiquitination on residues K207 and K344, consequently triggering proteasomal degradation. This process is crucial for preserving H2S homeostasis and redox balance. Overall, our findings offer valuable insights into the role of ASB1 during spermiogenesis and propose H2S supplementation as a promising therapeutic approach for oxidative stress-related male infertility.
PXD055134	39733591	Revealing novel protein interaction partners of glyphosate in Escherichia coli. 	Revealing novel protein interaction partners of glyphosate in Escherichia coli	Escherichia coli, Glyphosate, acute and chronic exposure, protein interaction partner, thermal proteome profiling	Despite all debates about its safe use, glyphosate remains the most widely applied active ingredient in herbicide products, with renewed approval in the European Union until 2033. Non-target organisms are commonly exposed to glyphosate as a matter of its mode of application, with its broader environmental and biological impacts remaining under investigation. Glyphosate displays structural similarity to phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP), thereby competitively inhibiting the 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS), crucial for the synthesis of aromatic amino acids in plants, fungi, bacteria, and archaea. Most microbes, including the gut bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli), possess a glyphosate-sensitive class I EPSPS, making them vulnerable to glyphosate's effects. Yet, little is known about glyphosate's interactions with other bacterial proteins or its broader modes of action at the proteome level. Here, we employed a quantitative proteomics and thermal proteome profiling (TPP) approach to identify novel protein binding partners of glyphosate in the E. coli proteome. Glyphosate exposure significantly altered amino acid synthesizing pathways. The abundance of shikimate pathway proteins was increased, suggesting a compensatory mechanism. Extracellular riboflavin concentrations were elevated upon glyphosate exposure, while intracellular levels remained stable. Beyond the target enzyme EPSPS, thermal proteome profiling indicated an effect of glyphosate on the thermal stability of certain proteins, including AroH and ProA, indicating interactions. Similar to the competitive binding between PEP and glyphosate at EPSPS, one reason for the interaction of AroH and ProA with the herbicide could be a high structural similarity between their substrates and glyphosate. Overall, glyphosate induced metabolic disturbances in E. coli, extending beyond its primary target, thereby providing new insights into glyphosate's broader impact on microbial systems.
PXD036694	39734192	Repair effect analysis of mesenchymal stem cell conditioned media from multiple sources on HUVECs damaged by high glucose. 	Repair effects of mesenchymal stem cells conditioned media from  multiple sources on vascular endothelial cells damaged by high  glucose: an in vitro study	conditioned media, high glucose, human umbilical vein  endothelial cells, mesenchymal stem cells, repair effect	BACKGROUND: The therapeutic potential of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) may be partly attributed to their secretion growth factors, cytokines and chemokines. In various preclinical studies, the use of MSC-conditioned media (CM) has demonstrated promising potential for promoting vascular repair. METHODS: To gain a comprehensive understanding of the variations in conditioned media derived from different sources of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) including umbilical cord, adipose and bone marrow, we investigated their reparative effects on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) subjected to damage induced by high glucose. Initially, the secreted proteins from the three types of MSCs were assessed using the bicinchoninic acid (BCA) method. Subsequently, we examined the influence of different type of MSC secreted proteins on the proliferation of HUVECs under high glucose conditions. Following this, transwell migration experiments were conducted to evaluate the impact of MSC source on the migration of HUVECs damaged by high glucose. We further compared the effects of adding secreted proteins from the three types of MSCs on the tube formation ability of HUVECs subjected to high glucose damage. Finally, tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling quantitative proteomics was performed to analyze differently expressed proteins in the secreted proteins of three type MSC by using LC-MS/MS. RESULTS: In this study, we observed a significantly higher secretion of proteins from umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (UMSCs) compared to adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs). Subsequently, we found that the of proliferation HUVECs was significantly improved with supplementing the three MSCs secreted proteins under high glucose medium. Notably, the reparative effects of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) and UMSCs were superior to those of ADSCs. Afterwards, UMSCs exhibited the strongest ability to repair cell migration when HUVECs damaged by high glucose. Moreover, all three MSCs' secreted proteins exhibited the ability to enhance tube formation. Importantly, the UMSCs' secretome showed the most pronounced improvement in tube formation, as evidenced by the evaluation of parameters such as the number of nodes, the number of branches, and total length. These findings suggest that the UMSCs' secretome plays a crucial role in biological processes such as vasculature development, cell adhesion, and tissue remodeling. Additionally, the BMSCs' secretome was found to promote vascular development. The results collectively indicate the diverse therapeutic potential of MSC secretomes in influencing various aspects of cellular function and tissue repair. CONCLUSION: In conclusion, this study offers a valuable reference for the selection of more suitable sources of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in the treatment of diabetic cardiovascular disease.
PXD051461	39735728	High-Throughput Screening of 3-Dimensional Co-culture Hair Follicle Mimetic Tissue with an Enhanced Extracellular Matrix for the Screening of Hair Growth-Promoting Compounds. 	A novel system for 3D co-culture hair follicle mimetic tissue	3D, ECM, hair follicle	Hair follicle cells reside within a complex extracellular matrix (ECM) environment in vivo, where physical and chemical cues regulate their behavior. The ECM is crucial for hair follicle development and regeneration, particularly through epithelial-mesenchymal interactions. Current in vitro models often fail to replicate this complexity, leading to inconsistencies in evaluating hair loss treatments. Advanced 3-dimensional (3D) culture systems that better mimic in vivo ECM dynamics are needed for more effective therapeutic assessments. Here, we introduce a 3D co-culture system designed to replicate in vivo ECM dynamics. The system incorporates primary dermal papilla cells from human patients, co-cultured with neonatal keratinocytes. This platform facilitates uniform spheroid formation through cell sliding and aggregation, enabling the evaluation of approximately 60 spheroids per well. The model is optimized for high-throughput screening, allowing precise assessments of hair-loss-inducing compounds under consistent conditions. We successfully generated dermal papilla cell and keratinocyte spheroids that closely resemble the native ECM structure, providing an optimal microenvironment for studying hair follicle biology. The 3D co-culture model supported efficient spheroid formation with consistent cellular organization and polarization, along with enhanced ECM-related gene expression crucial for hair follicle regeneration. Uniform spheroid formation and reproducibility were demonstrated across experiments. Overall, the novel 3D co-culture system provides a robust platform for replicating in vivo-like ECM conditions, enabling effective assessment of potential hair loss treatments through epithelial-mesenchymal interactions. Its high-throughput capacity, combined with reproducibility and ease of use, makes it a valuable tool for screening therapeutic candidates and advancing hair loss treatment development.
PXD054350	39735776	The interaction networks of small rubber particle proteins in the latex of Taraxacum koksaghyz reveal diverse functions in stress responses and secondary metabolism. 	Taraxacum koksaghyz SRPP pulldowns	SRPP1, Taraxacum koksaghyz, dandelions, latex, rubber	The Russian dandelion (Taraxacum koksaghyz) is a promising source of natural rubber (NR). The synthesis of NR takes place on the surface of organelles known as rubber particles, which are found in latex - the cytoplasm of specialized cells known as laticifers. As well as the enzymes directly responsible for NR synthesis, the rubber particles also contain small rubber particle proteins (SRPPs), the most abundant of which are SRPP3, 4 and 5. These three proteins support NR synthesis by maintaining rubber particle stability. We used homology-based searches to identify the whole TkSRPP gene family and qPCR to create their spatial expression profiles. Affinity enrichment-mass spectrometry was applied to identify TkSRPP3/4/5 protein interaction partners in T. koksaghyz latex and selected interaction partners were analyzed using qPCR, confocal laser scanning microscopy and heterologous expression in yeast. We identified 17 SRPP-like sequences in the T. koksaghyz genome, including three apparent pseudogenes, 10 paralogs arranged as an inverted repeat in a cluster with TkSRPP3/4/5, and one separate gene (TkSRPP6). Their sequence diversity and different expression profiles indicated distinct functions and the latex interactomes obtained for TkSRPP3/4/5 suggested that TkSRPP4 is a promiscuous hub protein that binds many partners from different compartments, whereas TkSRPP3 and 5 have more focused interactomes. Two interactors shared by TkSRPP3/4/5 (TkSRPP6 and TkUGT80B1) were chosen for independent validation and detailed characterization. TkUGT80B1 triterpenoid glycosylating activity provided first evidence for triterpenoid saponin synthesis in T. koksaghyz latex. Based on its identified interaction partners, TkSRPP4 appears to play a special role in the endoplasmic reticulum, interacting with lipidmodifying enzymes that may facilitate rubber particle formation. TkSRPP5 appears to be involved in GTPase-dependent signaling and TkSRPP3 may act as part of a kinase signaling cascade, with roles in stress tolerance. TkSRPP interaction with TkUGT80B1 draws a new connection between TkSRPPs and triterpenoid saponin synthesis in T. koksaghyz latex. Our data contribute to the functional differentiation between TkSRPP paralogs and demonstrate unexpected interactions that will help to further elucidate the network of proteins linking TkSRPPs, stress responses and NR biosynthesis within the cellular complexity of latex.
PXD045164	39736699	Unraveling the protein kinase C/NDRG1 signaling network in breast cancer. 	Protein Kinase C activation regulates NDRG1 expression	Breast Cancer, NDRG1, PKC, TNBC	N-myc downstream-regulated gene 1 (NDRG1) is a member of the NDRG family of intracellular proteins and plays a central role in a wide range of biological processes including stress response, differentiation, and metabolism. The overexpression of NDRG1 is an indicator of poor prognosis in various types of cancer. Here, we found that NDRG1 is an independent prognostic marker of poor outcome in breast cancer (BC). Analysis of the TCGA dataset showed a significant positive correlation between NDRG1 and PRKCA expression, suggesting a mechanistic role of protein kinase C (PKC) in the regulation of NDRG1. We then assessed the hypothesis that PKC might modulate the activity of NDRG1, and observed that different acute stress conditions converging on PKC activation lead to enhanced NDRG1 expression. This mechanism was found to be specific for NDRG1 as the expression of other NDRG members was not affected. Moreover, CRISPR-based inhibition of NDRG1 expression was obtained in a BC cell line, and showed that this protein is a key driver of BC cell invasion through the Rho-associated coiled-coil containing protein kinase 1 (ROCK1)/phosphorylated cofilin pathway that regulates stress fiber assembly, and the modulation of extracellular matrix reorganization related genes. Together, our findings highlight the potential of NDRG1 as a new BC biomarker and uncover a novel mechanism of regulation of NDRG1 expression that might lead to innovative therapeutic strategies.
PXD056057	39737713	The Zebrafish Sperm Proteome. 	The zebrafish Danio rerio sperm proteome by LC-MSMS	Danio rerio, fertilisation, fertility, sperm function, sperm-egg interaction	One of the key processes that forms the basis of fertilisation is the tight interaction between sperm and egg. Both sperm and egg proteomes are known to evolve and diverge rapidly even between closely related species. Understanding the sperm proteome therefore provides key insights into the proteins that underpin the mechanisms involved during fertilisation and the fusion between sperm and egg, and how they can differ across individuals of the same species. Despite being a commonly used model organism for reproductive research, little is currently understood about the zebrafish Danio rerio sperm proteome. We performed nanoLC-MS/MS proteomics analysis after off-line sample fractionation with six pooled samples containing sperm from ten males each. We confidently identified 5410 proteins, from which a total of 3900 GeneIDs were generated leading to 1720 Gene Ontology terms.
PXD057516	39737935	Reconstitution of pluripotency from mouse fibroblast through Sall4 overexpression. 	Reconstitution of Pluripotency from Mouse Fibroblast through Sall4 Overexpression	SALL4, iPSCs reprogramming	Somatic cells can be reprogrammed into pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) by overexpressing defined transcription factors. Specifically, overexpression of OCT4 alone has been demonstrated to reprogram mouse fibroblasts into iPSCs. However, it remains unclear whether any other single factor can induce iPSCs formation. Here, we report that SALL4 alone, under an optimized reprogramming medium iCD4, is capable of reprogramming mouse fibroblasts into iPSCs. Mechanistically, SALL4 facilitates reprogramming by inhibiting somatic genes and activating pluripotent genes, such as Esrrb and Tfap2c. Furthermore, we demonstrate that co-overexpressing SALL4 and OCT4 synergistically enhances reprogramming efficiency. Specifically, the activation of Rsk1/Esrrb/Tfap2c by SALL4, alongside OCT4's activation of Sox2 and the suppression of Mndal by SALL4 and Sbsn by OCT4, cooperate to facilitate SALL4+OCT4-mediated reprogramming. Overall, our study not only establishes an efficient method for iPSCs induction using the SALL4 single factor but also provides insights into the synergistic effects of SALL4 and OCT4 in reprogramming.
PXD056322	39737943	Human ANP32A/B are SUMOylated and utilized by avian influenza virus NS2 protein to overcome species-specific restriction. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of Flag-H9N2-NS2 interacting proteins		Human ANP32A/B (huANP32A/B) poorly support the polymerase activity of avian influenza viruses (AIVs), thereby limiting interspecies transmission of AIVs from birds to humans. The SUMO-interacting motif (SIM) within NS2 promotes the adaptation of AIV polymerase to huANP32A/B via a yet undisclosed mechanism. Here we show that huANP32A/B are SUMOylated by the E3 SUMO ligase PIAS2alpha, and deSUMOylated by SENP1. SUMO modification of huANP32A/B results in the recruitment of NS2, thereby facilitating huANP32A/B-supported AIV polymerase activity. Such a SUMO-dependent recruitment of NS2 is mediated by its association with huANP32A/B via the SIM-SUMO interaction module, where K68/K153-SUMO in huANP32A or K68/K116-SUMO in huANP32B interacts with the NS2-SIM. The SIM-SUMO-mediated interactions between NS2 and huANP32A/B function to promote AIV polymerase activity by positively regulating AIV vRNP-huANP32A/B interactions and AIV vRNP assembly. Our study offers insights into the mechanism of NS2-SIM in facilitating AIVs adaptation to mammals.
PXD057867	39738003	An antibody cocktail targeting two different CD73 epitopes enhances enzyme inhibition and tumor control. 	Epitope analysis of the complex of CD73 and HB0038 by HDX-MS	CD73 HB0038 HDX-MS	CD73, an ectoenzyme responsible for adenosine production, is often elevated in immuno-suppressive tumor environments. Inhibition of CD73 activity holds great promise as a therapeutic strategy for CD73-expressing cancers. In this study, we have developed a therapeutic anti-human CD73 antibody cocktail, HB0045. HB0045 is a 1:1 mixture of two humanized monoclonal IgG1 antibodies (mAbs), HB0038 and HB0039. The cocktail not only harnesses the advantages of its parental mAbs in enzyme inhibition but also shows a significantly greater capability of promoting T cell proliferation in vitro. Structural analyses show that HB0045 effectively locks the CD73 dimer in a "partially open" non-active conformation through a double lock mechanism. In various animal models of syngeneic and xenograft tumors, HB0045 inhibits tumor growth more potently than the single mAbs. Collectively, our findings provide functional and structural insights into the mechanism of a CD73-targeting antibody cocktail.
PXD056895	39738007	Hidden route of protein damage through oxygen-confined photooxidation. 	Oxygen-confined photooxidation represents a novel form of oxidative protein damage	ROS generation, oxidative protein damage, oxygen confinement, photooxidation, protein cavity, protein interior oxidation	Oxidative modifications can disrupt protein folds and functions, and are strongly associated with human aging and diseases. Conventional oxidation pathways typically involve the free diffusion of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which primarily attack the protein surface. Yet, it remains unclear whether and how internal protein folds capable of trapping oxygen (O2) contribute to oxidative damage. Here, we report a hidden pathway of protein damage, which we refer to as O2-confined photooxidation. In this process, O2 is captured in protein cavities and subsequently converted into multiple ROS, primarily mediated by tryptophan residues under blue light irradiation. The generated ROS then attack the protein interior through constrained diffusion, causing protein damage. The effects of this photooxidative reaction appear to be extensive, impacting a wide range of cellular proteins, as supported by whole-cell proteomic analysis. This photooxidative mechanism may represent a latent oxidation pathway in human tissues directly exposed to visible light, such as skin and eyes.
PXD059035	39738050	Macrophage-derived extracellular vesicles transfer mitochondria to adipocytes and promote adipocyte-myofibroblast transition in epidural fibrosis. 	Proteomics of epidural fibrosis after laminectomy	epidural fibrosis	Epidural fibrosis post laminectomy is the leading cause of failed back surgery syndrome. Little is known about the role and mechanisms of adipose tissues in epidural fibrosis. Here, we found that obese patients were more likely to develop epidural fibrosis after spine surgery. Similarly, obesity led to more progressive epidural fibrosis in a mouse model of laminectomy. Adipocyte-myofibroblast transition (AMT) occurs in epidural scarring. Mechanistically, large extracellular vesicles (EVs) from M2-type macrophages transfer mitochondria into adipocytes and promote AMT by activating the TGF-beta and PAI-1 pathways. Blocking the PAI-1 pathway significantly attenuated the transition of adipocytes into myofibroblasts. We conclude that large EVs from macrophages transfer mitochondria to promote AMT in epidural fibrosis.
PXD047981	39738095	Total synthesis and target identification of marine cyclopiane diterpenes. 	Total Synthesis and Target Identification of Marine Cyclopiane Diterpenes	Conidiogenone C	Marine cyclopianes are a family of diterpenoid with novel carbon skeleton and diverse biological activities. Herein, we report our synthetic and chemical proteomics studies of cyclopiane diterpenes which culminate in the asymmetric total synthesis of conidiogenones C, K and 12beta-hydroxy conidiogenone C, and identification of Immunity-related GTPase family M protein 1 (IRGM1) as a cellular target. Our asymmetric synthesis commences from Wieland-Miescher ketone and features a sequential intramolecular Pauson-Khand reaction and gold-catalyzed Nazarov cyclization to rapidly construct the 6-5-5-5 tetracyclic skeleton. The stereocontrolled cyclopentenone construction is further investigated on complex settings to demonstrate its synthetic utility. Furthermore, using an alkyne-tagged conidiogenone C-derived probe, IRGM1, a master regulator of type I interferon responses, is identified as a key cellular target of conidiogenone C responsible for its anti-inflammatory activity. Preliminary mechanism of action studies shows that conidiogenone C activates IRGM1-mediate dysfunctional mitochondria autophagy to maintain mitochondria quality control of inflammatory macrophages.
PXD055034	39738099	GATD3A-deficiency-induced mitochondrial dysfunction facilitates senescence of fibroblast-like synoviocytes and osteoarthritis progression. 	The role of GATD3A in regulating Fibroblast-like synoviocytes functions	Fibroblast-like synoviocytes, GATD3A, Osteoarthritis	Accumulating evidence indicates that cellular senescence is closely associated with osteoarthritis. However, there is limited research on the mechanisms underlying fibroblast-like synoviocyte senescence and its impact on osteoarthritis progression. Here, we elucidate a positive correlation between fibroblast-like synoviocyte senescence and osteoarthritis progression and reveal that GATD3A deficiency induces fibroblast-like synoviocyte senescence. Mechanistically, GATD3A deficiency enhances the binding of Sirt3 to MDH2, leading to deacetylation and decreased activity of MDH2. Reduced MDH2 activity impairs tricarboxylic acid cycle flux, resulting in mitochondrial dysfunction and fibroblast-like synoviocyte senescence. Intra-articular injection of recombinant adeno-associated virus carrying GATD3A significantly alleviates the osteoarthritis phenotype in male mice. This study increases our current understanding of GATD3A function. In particular, we reveal a novel mechanism of fibroblast-like synoviocyte senescence, suggesting that targeting GATD3A is a potential therapeutic approach for osteoarthritis.
PXD035502	39739311	Spatial proteomics reveals sirtuin 1 to be a determinant of T-cell infiltration in human melanoma. 	Spatial proteomics of T-cell infiltrates in melanoma reveals differential regulation of TOR signaling	T cell infiltrate, immune checkpoint inhibition, melanoma, spatial proteomics	BACKGROUND: The tumour microenvironment significantly influences the clinical response of patients to therapeutic immune checkpoint inhibition (ICI), but a comprehensive understanding of the underlying immune-regulatory proteome is still lacking. OBJECTIVES: To decipher targetable biologic processes that determine tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes (TiLs) as a cellular equivalent of clinical response to ICI. METHODS: We mapped the spatial distribution of proteins in TiL-enriched vs. TiL-low compartments in melanoma by combining microscopy, matrix-assisted laser desorption mass spectrometry imaging and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, as well as computational data mining. Pharmacological modulation of sirtuin 1 (SIRT1) activity in syngeneic mouse models was used to evaluate the efficacy of pharmacological SIRT1 activation in two syngeneic melanoma mouse models, one known to be alpha-programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) sensitive and the other alpha-PD-1 resistant. RESULTS: Spatial proteomics and gene ontology-based enrichment analysis identified > 145 proteins enriched in CD8high tumour compartments, including negative regulators of mammalian target of rapamycin signalling such as SIRT1. Multiplexed immunohistochemistry confirmed that SIRT1 protein was expressed more in CD8high than in CD8low compartments. Further analysis of bulk and single-cell RNA sequencing data from melanoma tissue samples suggested the expression of SIRT1 by different lymphocyte subpopulations (CD8+ T cells, CD4+ T cells and B cells). Furthermore, we showed in vivo that pharmacological SIRT1 activation increased the immunological effect of alpha-PD-1 ICI against melanoma cells in mice, which was accompanied by an increase in T-cell infiltration and T-cell-related cytokines, including interferon (IFN)-gamma, CCL4, CXCL9, CXCL10 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha. In silico analysis of large transcriptional data cohorts showed that SIRT1 was positively associated with the proinflammatory T-cell chemokines CXCL9, CXCL10 and IFN-gamma, and prolonged overall survival of patients with melanoma. CONCLUSIONS: Our study deciphers the proteomics landscape in human melanoma, providing important information on the tumour microenvironment and identifying SIRT1 as having important prognostic and therapeutic implications.
PXD063765	39739361	Insights into the renal pathophysiology in Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome-1 from urinary extracellular vesicle proteomics and a new mouse model. 	Insights into the renal pathophysiology in Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome-1 from urinary extracellular vesicle proteomics and a new mouse model	Hermansky-Pudlak Syndrome, Tamm-Horsfall protein, extracellular vesicles, renal pathology	Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome type 1 (HPS-1) is a rare, autosomal recessive disorder caused by defects in the biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex-3 (BLOC-3). Impaired kidney function is among its clinical manifestations. To investigate HPS-1 renal involvement, we employed 1D-gel-LC-MS/MS and compared the protein composition of urinary extracellular vesicles (uEVs) from HPS-1 patients to normal control individuals. We identified 1029 proteins, 149 of which were altered in HPS-1 uEVs. Ingenuity Pathway Analysis revealed disruptions in mitochondrial function and the LXR/RXR pathway that regulates lipid metabolism, which is supported by our novel Hps1 knockout mouse. Serum concentration of the LXR/RXR pathway protein ApoA1 in our patient cohort was positively correlated with kidney function (with the estimated glomerular filtration rate or eGFR). uEVs can be used to study epithelial cell protein trafficking in HPS-1 and may provide outcome measures for HPS-1 therapeutic interventions.
PXD056242	39739741	Mechanism of connexin channel inhibition by mefloquine and 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate. 	Surface biotinylation HEK293 Cx32	HEK293, surface biotinylation	Gap junction intercellular communication (GJIC) between two adjacent cells involves direct exchange of cytosolic ions and small molecules via connexin gap junction channels (GJCs). Connexin GJCs have emerged as drug targets, with small molecule connexin inhibitors considered a viable therapeutic strategy in several diseases. The molecular mechanisms of GJC inhibition by known small molecule connexin inhibitors remain unknown, preventing the development of more potent and connexin-specific therapeutics. Here we show that two GJC inhibitors, mefloquine (MFQ) and 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2APB) bind to Cx32 and block dye permeation across Cx32 hemichannels (HCs) and GJCs. Cryo-EM analysis shows that 2APB binds to "site A", close to the N-terminal gating helix of Cx32 GJC, restricting the entrance to the channel pore. In contrast, MFQ binds to a distinct "site M", deeply buried within the pore. MFQ binding to this site modifies the electrostatic properties of Cx32 pore. Mutagenesis of V37, a key residue located in the site M, renders Cx32 HCs and GJCs insensitive to MFQ-mediated inhibition. Moreover, our cryo-EM analysis, mutagenesis and activity assays show that MFQ targets the M site in Cx43 GJC similarly to Cx32. Taken together, our results point to a conserved inhibitor binding site in connexin channels, opening a new route for development of specific drugs targeting connexins.
PXD050648	39739841	Identification and characterization of a human MORC2 DNA binding region that is required for gene silencing. 	Identification and characterization of a human MORC2 DNA binding region that is required for gene silencing	DNA, MORC, gene silencing	The eukaryotic microrchidia (MORC) protein family are DNA gyrase, Hsp90, histidine kinase, MutL (GHKL)-type ATPases involved in gene expression regulation and chromatin compaction. The molecular mechanisms underlying these activities are incompletely understood. Here, we studied the full-length human MORC2 protein biochemically. We identified a DNA binding site in the C-terminus of the protein, and we observe that this region can be phosphorylated in cells. DNA binding by MORC2 reduces its ATPase activity and MORC2 can entrap multiple DNA substrates between its N-terminal GHKL and C-terminal coiled coil 3 dimerization domains. Finally, we observe that the MORC2 C-terminal DNA binding region is required for gene silencing in cells. Together, our data provide a model to understand how MORC2 engages with DNA substrates to mediate gene silencing.
PXD056865	39740997	Phenomics-based Discovery of Novel Orthosteric Choline Kinase Inhibitors. 	Affinity-based chemoproteomic profiling of UNC0638 and UNC0737 in MCF7 and PBMC lysates identifies CHKA as a shared off-target.	Chemical Proteomics	Choline kinase alpha (CHKA) is a central mediator of cell metabolism linked to cancer and immune regulation. Cellular and clinical evaluation of CHKA has been hampered by challenges in the development of drug-like choline kinase inhibitors. Here, we identify CHKA as an unexpected off-target of histone methyltransferase inhibitors using an integrated phenomic approach. We confirm CHKA as a direct protein target of the aminoquinazolines UNC0638 and UNC0737 using a combination of chemoproteomic, biochemical, cellular, and metabolic profiling assays, possibly explaining the previously reported discrepancies observed for different G9a/GLP inhibitor scaffolds in cellular assays. Using primary human cell model systems, we discover that CHKA modulation impairs IgG secretion and B-cell maturation consistent with the notion that choline metabolism plays an important role in immune signalling. Co-crystal structures of UNC0638 and UNC0737 with CHKA unravel an unexpected binding mode and suggest the inhibitors as attractive starting points for the development of selective chemical tools to further explore the biological role of CHKA in cancer and immune metabolism.
PXD055863	39742302	A comprehensive atlas of endogenous peptides in maize. 	Developmental dynamics of endogenous peptides in maize	maize, peptides	In this study, we present a comprehensive peptidomic atlas of 13 maize tissues, covering both vegetative and reproductive phases. Using a three-frame translation of canonical coding sequences, we identified 6100 nonredundant endogenous peptides, significantly expanding the known plant peptide repertoire. By integrating peptidomic coexpression profiles with previously reported proteomic profiles, we found that the peptide abundance did not consistently correlate with the abundance of their source proteins, suggesting the presence of complex regulatory mechanisms. This integrated peptidomic and proteomic map can serve as a valuable resource for exploring the functional roles of endogenous peptides in maize development and facilitates the investigation of the functional relationship among genes, peptides, and proteins across various biological contexts.
PXD057481	39744421	Kupffer Cell-derived IL6 Promotes Hepatocellular Carcinoma Metastasis Via the JAK1-ACAP4 Pathway. 	Kupffer cell-derived IL6 promotes hepatocellular carcinoma metastasis via the JAK1-ACAP4 pathway	MHCC97H,THLE-2	Tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs), which differentiate from tissue-resident macrophages, are recognized for their ability to influence cancer progression and metastasis. However, the specific role of Kupffer cells (KCs), the intrinsic macrophages of the liver, in the progression of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains unclear. In this study, we describe a novel mechanism by which exosomes derived from HCC cells induce KCs to transition into TAMs, thereby facilitating the metastasis of HCC in an IL6-JAK1-ACAP4 axis-dependent manner. Mechanistically, the exosome-mediated domestication of KCs by hepatoma cells constitutes one of the primary sources of IL6 production in the HCC microenvironment. IL6 then activates JAK1 to phosphorylate its downstream effector ACAP4 at Tyr843, a novel phosphorylation site identified in this context, which in turn promotes ARF6-GTPase activity and hepatoma cell migration. Furthermore, we found that the levels of IL6, as well as the phosphorylation of JAK1 and ACAP4 at Tyr843, were significantly greater in tumor tissues from HCC patients than in adjacent tissues. These findings suggest that the IL6-JAK1-ACAP4 axis may be a promising therapeutic target for HCC. Importantly, we screened bufalin, an active ingredient derived from Venenum Bufonis, and discovered that it inhibits JAK1 and disrupts the IL6-induced phosphorylation of ACAP4. This inhibition not only impairs hepatoma cell migration but also prevents the metastasis of HCC. These findings demonstrate the interplay between hepatoma cells and KCs through the IL6-JAK1-ACAP4 axis, thereby promoting HCC metastasis, and reveal the therapeutic potential of bufalin for the treatment of HCC through JAK1 inhibition.
PXD050740	39744939	Cardiac fibroblast BAG3 regulates TGFBR2 signaling and fibrosis in dilated cardiomyopathy. 	Binding partners of BAG3 in human iPS-cardiac fibroblasts.	BAG3, cardiac fibroblast, iPSC	Loss of Bcl2-associated athanogene 3 (BAG3) is associated with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). BAG3 regulates sarcomere protein turnover in cardiomyocytes; however, the function of BAG3 in other cardiac cell types is understudied. In this study, we used an isogenic pair of BAG3-knockout and wild-type human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) to interrogate the role of BAG3 in hiPSC-derived cardiac fibroblasts (CFs). Analysis of cell type-specific conditional knockout engineered heart tissues revealed an essential contribution of CF BAG3 to contractility and cardiac fibrosis, recapitulating the phenotype of DCM. In BAG3-/- CFs, we observed an increased sensitivity to TGF-beta signaling and activation of a fibrogenic response when cultured at physiological stiffness (8 kPa). Mechanistically, we showed that loss of BAG3 increased transforming growth factor-beta receptor 2 (TGFBR2) levels by directly binding TGFBR2 and mediating its ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation. To further validate these results, we performed single-nucleus RNA sequencing of cardiac tissue from DCM patients carrying pathogenic BAG3 variants. BAG3 pathogenic variants increased fibrotic gene expression in CFs. Together, these results extend our understanding of the roles of BAG3 in heart disease beyond the cardiomyocyte-centric view and highlight the ability of tissue-engineered hiPSC models to elucidate cell type-specific aspects of cardiac disease.
PXD055104	39745055	Comparative evaluation of peptide vs. protein-based calibration for quantification of cardiac troponin I using ID-LC-MS/MS. 	Quantification of Cardiac Troponin I Using ID-LC-MS/MSQuantification of Cardiac Troponin I Using ID-LC-MS/MS	ID-MS, Immunoaffinity enrichment, Magnetic particles, PICAA, Peptide-based calibration, cTnI	OBJECTIVES: An analytical protocol based on isotope dilution liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (ID-LC-MS/MS), which includes a peptide-based calibration strategy, was developed and validated for the determination of cardiac troponin I (cTnI) levels in clinical samples. Additionally, the developed method was compared with a protein-based calibration strategy, using cTnI serving as a model for low-abundant proteins. The aim is to evaluate new approaches for protein quantification in complex matrices, supporting the metrology community in implementing new methods and developing fit-for-purpose SI- traceable peptide or protein primary calibrators. METHODS: To establish traceability to SI units, peptide impurity correction amino acid analysis (PICAA) was conducted to determine the absolute content of signature peptides in the primary standards. Immunoaffinity enrichment was used to capture cTnI from human serum, with a comparison between microbeads and nanobeads to improve enrichment efficiency. Parallel reaction monitoring was used to monitor two signature peptides specific to cTnI. Various digestion parameters were optimized to achieve complete digestion. RESULTS: The analytical method demonstrated selectivity and specificity, allowing the quantification of cTnI within 0.9-22.0 mug/L. The intermediate precision RSD was below 28.9 %, and the repeatability RSD was below 5.8 % at all concentration levels, with recovery rates ranging from 87 % to 121 %. The comparison of calibration strategies showed similar LOQ values, but the peptide-based calibration exhibited significant quantitative bias in recovery rates. The data are available via ProteomeXchange (PXD055104). CONCLUSIONS: This isotope dilution liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (ID-LC-MS/MS) method, based on peptide calibration, successfully quantified cTnI in human serum. Comparing this with protein-based calibration highlighted both the strengths and potential limitations of peptide-based strategies.
PXD052186	39745947	Protective antibodies target cryptic epitope unmasked by cleavage of malaria sporozoite protein. 	N-terminal processing of CSP in P. falciparum salivary gland sporozoites	Plasmodium malaria sporozoites	The most advanced monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) and vaccines against malaria target the central repeat region or closely related sequences within the Plasmodium falciparum circumsporozoite protein (PfCSP). Here, using an antigen-agnostic strategy to investigate human antibody responses to whole sporozoites, we identified a class of mAbs that target a cryptic PfCSP epitope that is only exposed after cleavage and subsequent pyroglutamylation (pGlu) of the newly formed N terminus. This pGlu-CSP epitope is not targeted by current anti-PfCSP mAbs and is not included in the licensed malaria vaccines. MAD21-101, the most potent mAb in this class, confers sterile protection against Pf infection in a human liver-chimeric mouse model. These findings reveal a site of vulnerability on the sporozoite surface that can be targeted by next-generation antimalarial interventions.
PXD054336	39746544	Multi-tiered proteome analysis displays the hyper-permeability of the rheumatoid synovial compartment for plasma proteins. 	Multitiered proteome analysis displays the hyperpermeability of the rheumatoid synovial compartment for plasma proteins	ACPA, IgG1, paired plasma and synovial fluid proteomics, repertoire profiling	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is characterized by synovial hyperplasia and cartilage/bone destruction. RA affects the synovial joints, the synovial lining and the permeability of the synovium. As the latter is of central relevance for the distribution of systemically delivered therapeutics into synovial fluid (SF), we here assessed the protein composition of paired plasma and SF of patients diagnosed with RA at three distinct levels of depth using mass spectrometric approaches: the "total" proteome, the "total" IgG1 antibody repertoire and the RA-specific ACPA IgG1 autoantibody repertoire. The SF proteome was found to be dominated in numbers and in concentration by plasma proteins, although we additionally detected several cartilage- and neutrophil-derived proteins of lower abundance. Strikingly, the plasma proteins were not only qualitatively reflected in SF but also quantitatively, independent of their size and/or other biochemical features. Also, the synovial "total" IgG1 and autoreactive ACPA IgG1 repertoire highly resembled the IgG1 repertoires detected in plasma within the same patient. Our comprehensive multilayer data thus reveals that the proteome, including the dominant, most abundant (auto)antibody clones, present in SF of RA patients is a direct reflection of the proteome present in blood, spiked by the local (immune) processes within the RA joint. We thus conclude that proteins directly pass from blood into SF of these joints without substantial bias. These findings thereby not only exemplify the use of in-depth multilayer proteome analyses to revisit basic concepts underlying RA pathology and to monitor the local (immune) processes destructive to cartilage, but also provide evidence indicating that (protein-based) therapeutics may equally enter SF of swollen joints and that pharmacokinetic analyses of such therapeutics in blood are directly relevant to the synovial compartment.
PXD057533	39747000	Probing SARS-CoV-2 membrane binding peptide via single-molecule AFM-based force spectroscopy. 	Role of the internal disulfide bond in altering the binding properties of SARS-CoV-2 membrane binding peptide to lipid bilayer	Cholesterol, Membrane binding peptide, SARS-CoV-2, disulfide bond	The SARS-CoV-2 spike protein's membrane-binding domain bridges the viral and host cell membrane, a critical step in triggering membrane fusion. Here, we investigate how the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein interacts with host cell membranes, focusing on a membrane-binding peptide (MBP) located near the TMPRSS2 cleavage site. Through in vitro and computational studies, we examine both primed (TMPRSS2-cleaved) and unprimed versions of the MBP, as well as the influence of its conserved disulfide bridge on membrane binding. Our results show that the MBP preferentially associates with cholesterol-rich membranes, and we find that cholesterol depletion significantly reduces viral infectivity. Furthermore, we observe that the disulfide bridge stabilizes the MBP's interaction with the membrane, suggesting a structural role in viral entry. Together, these findings highlight the importance of membrane composition and peptide structure in SARS-CoV-2 infectivity and suggest that targeting the disulfide bridge could provide a therapeutic strategy against infection.
PXD057299	39747972	Multi-omic biomarker panel in pancreatic cyst fluid and serum predicts patients at a high risk of pancreatic cancer development. 	Proteomic profiling of pancreatic cyst fluid in patients with pancreatic cystic lesions identifies novel biomarkers of pancreatic cancer risk	Biomarkers, LC-MS, Pancreatic Cancer, Pancreatic Cyst Fluid, Pancreatic Cystic Lesions, Risk	Integration of multi-omic data for the purposes of biomarker discovery can provide novel and robust panels across multiple biological compartments. Appropriate analytical methods are key to ensuring accurate and meaningful outputs in the multi-omic setting. Here, we extensively profile the proteome and transcriptome of patient pancreatic cyst fluid (PCF) (n = 32) and serum (n = 68), before integrating matched omic and biofluid data, to identify biomarkers of pancreatic cancer risk. Differential expression analysis, feature reduction, multi-omic data integration, unsupervised hierarchical clustering, principal component analysis, spearman correlations and leave-one-out cross-validation were performed using RStudio and CombiROC software. An 11-feature multi-omic panel in PCF [PIGR, S100A8, REG1A, LGALS3, TCN1, LCN2, PRSS8, MUC6, SNORA66, miR-216a-5p, miR-216b-5p] generated an AUC = 0.806. A 13-feature multi-omic panel in serum [SHROOM3, IGHV3-72, IGJ, IGHA1, PPBP, APOD, SFN, IGHG1, miR-197-5p, miR-6741-5p, miR-3180, miR-3180-3p, miR-6782-5p] produced an AUC = 0.824. Integration of the strongest performing biomarkers generated a 10-feature cross-biofluid multi-omic panel [S100A8, LGALS3, SNORA66, miR-216b-5p, IGHV3-72, IGJ, IGHA1, PPBP, miR-3180, miR-3180-3p] with an AUC = 0.970. Multi-omic profiling provides an abundance of potential biomarkers. Integration of data from different omic compartments, and across biofluids, produced a biomarker panel that performs with high accuracy, showing promise for the risk stratification of patients with pancreatic cystic lesions.
PXD058886	39749710	Application of integrated omics in aseptic loosening of prostheses after hip replacement. 	Application of integrated omics in aseptic loosening of prostheses after hip replacement	aseptic loosening, initial artificial hip joint, metabolomics, transcriptomics	Aseptic loosening (AL) of artificial hip joints is the most common complication following hip replacement surgery. A total of eight patients diagnosed with AL following total hip arthroplasty (THA) undergoing total hip replacement and eight control patients diagnosed with avascular necrosis of femoral head (ANFH) or femoral neck fracture undergoing THA were enrolled. The samples of the AL group were from synovial tissue surrounding the lining/head/neck of the prosthesis, and the samples of the control group were from the synovium in the joint cavity. The present study utilized second-generation high-throughput sequencing and mass spectrometry to detect differentially expressed genes, proteins and metabolites in the samples, as well as Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analysis. Key genes cytokine receptor-like factor-1 (CRLF1) and glutathione-S transferase micro1 (GSTM1) expression levels were verified by reverse transcription-quantitative PCR and western blotting. The integrated transcriptomics, proteomics and untargeted metabolomics analyses revealed characteristic metabolite changes (biosynthesis of guanine, L-glycine and adenosine) and decreased CRLF1 and GSTM1 in AL, which were primarily associated with amino acid metabolism and lipid metabolism. In summary, the present study may uncover the underlying mechanisms of AL pathology and provide stable and accurate biomarkers for early warning and diagnosis.
PXD051592	39751400	MYO18B promotes lysosomal exocytosis by facilitating focal adhesion maturation. 	MYO18B promotes lysosomal exocytosis by facilitating focal adhesion maturation	Glycoproteomics, HEK293, Hela, MYO18B, THP1, lysosome, paucimannose	Many cancer cells exhibit increased amounts of paucimannose glycans, which are truncated N-glycan structures rarely found in mammals. Paucimannosidic proteins are proposedly generated within lysosomes and exposed on the cell surface through a yet uncertain mechanism. In this study, we revealed that paucimannosidic proteins are produced by lysosomal glycosidases and secreted via lysosomal exocytosis. Interestingly, lysosomal exocytosis preferentially occurred in the vicinity of focal adhesions, protein complexes connecting the actin cytoskeleton to the extracellular matrix. Through genome-wide knockout screening, we identified that MYO18B, an actin crosslinker, is required for focal adhesion maturation, facilitating lysosomal exocytosis and the release of paucimannosidic lysosomal proteins to the extracellular milieu. Moreover, a mechanosensitive cation channel PIEZO1 locally activated at focal adhesions imports Ca2+ necessary for lysosome-plasma membrane fusion. Collectively, our study unveiled an intimate relationship between lysosomal exocytosis and focal adhesion, shedding light on the unexpected interplay between lysosomal activities and cellular mechanosensing.
PXD043749	39753547	Mechanistic evaluation of enhanced graphene toxicity to Bacillus induced by humic acid adsorption. 	The effect of HA on the bacterial toxicity of GNSs	toxicity,HA,bacterial,graphene	The extensive application of graphene nanosheets (GNSs) has raised concerns over risks to sensitive species in the aquatic environment. The humic acid (HA) corona is traditionally considered to reduce GNSs toxicity. Here, we evaluate the effect of sorbed HA (GNSs-HA) on the toxicity of GNSs to Gram positive Bacillus tropicus. Contrary to previous data, GNSs-HA exhibits greater toxicity compared to GNSs. Multi-omics combined with sensitive bioassays and electrochemical methods reveals GNSs disrupt oxidative phosphorylation by causing physical membrane damage. This leads to the accumulation of intracellular reactive oxygen species and inhibition of ATP production, subsequently suppressing synthetic and metabolic processes and ultimately causing bacterial death. Conversely, GNSs-HA directly extracts electrons from bacteria and oxidized biomolecules due to HA-improved electron transfer. This finding suggests that the HA corona does not always mitigate the toxicity of nanoparticles, thereby introducing uncertainty over the interaction between environmental corona and nanoparticles during ecological risk evaluation.
PXD053103	39753558	Structures of Saccharolobus solfataricus initiation complexes with leaderless mRNAs highlight archaeal features and eukaryotic proximity. 	Cryo-EM Structures of 30S:mRNA Complexes in Saccharolobus solfataricus: Unveiling Archaeal Features and Eukaryotic Proximity	eS25, eS26, eS30, leaderless mRNA, translation initiation	The archaeal ribosome is of the eukaryotic type. TACK and Asgard superphyla, the closest relatives of eukaryotes, have ribosomes containing eukaryotic ribosomal proteins not found in other archaea, eS25, eS26 and eS30. Here, we investigate the case of Saccharolobus solfataricus, a TACK crenarchaeon, using mainly leaderless mRNAs. We characterize the small ribosomal subunit of S. solfataricus bound to SD-leadered or leaderless mRNAs. Cryo-EM structures show eS25, eS26 and eS30 bound to the small subunit. We identify two ribosomal proteins, aS33 and aS34, and an additional domain of eS6. Leaderless mRNAs are bound to the small subunit with contribution of their 5'-triphosphate group. Archaeal eS26 binds to the mRNA exit channel wrapped around the 3' end of rRNA, as in eukaryotes. Its position is not compatible with an SD:antiSD duplex. Our results suggest a positive role of eS26 in leaderless mRNAs translation and possible evolutionary routes from archaeal to eukaryotic translation.
PXD056061	39753660	Accelerated aging modulates the toxicological properties of the diazo tattoo pigment PO13. 	Accelerated aging modulates the toxicological properties of the diazo tattoo pigment Po13	Tattoo, nanoLC-MS/MS, skin toxicity	Pigment particles used in tattooing may exert long terms effect by releasing diffusible degradation products. In the present work, aqueous suspensions of the organic orange diazo pigment PO13 were aged by exposure to simulated sunlight at 40 degreesC. The morphology and the surface charge of PO13 particles were barely modified upon aging, but primary particles were released by de-agglomeration. Soluble photoproducts were detected in the liquid fractions. One of this photoproduct (DCBP) was produced in large amount in suspension in isopropanol and purified. The toxicological profiles of aged suspensions, their soluble fractions and DCBP were then determined on the keratinocyte cell line HaCaT. Impact of suspensions of PO13 on viability was hardly affected by aging. In contrast, the soluble fractions were more toxic after photo-aging. Suspensions and filtrates induced neither release of reactive oxygen species nor formation of DNA strand breaks. The samples exhibited only limited effects on the proteome of HaCaT cells. Conversely, DCBP was cytotoxic and induced the production of ROS, but was not genotoxic. DCBP was found to activate CYP450 monooxygenases known to be involved in the metabolism of xenobiotics. Altogether, our results show that aging of PO13 leads to the release of toxic soluble compounds.
PXD048458	39755117	Rice extracellular vesicles send defense proteins into fungus Rhizoctonia solani to reduce disease. 	Oryza sativa extracellular vesicles proteins	extracellular vesicles, plants interacting with pathogens	The exchange of molecular information across kingdoms is crucial for the survival of both plants and their pathogens. Recent research has identified that plants transfer their small RNAs and microRNAs into fungal pathogens to suppress infection. However, whether and how plants send defense proteins into pathogens remains unknown. Here, we report that rice (Oryza sativa) plants package defense proteins into extracellular vesicles (EVs) and deliver them to the fungal pathogen Rhizoctonia solani. These EVs, enriched with host defense proteins, are internalized by the fungal cells. Reducing the transfer of host defense proteins via EVs results in increased disease susceptibility. Furthermore, the overexpression of host defense proteins in either rice plants or the fungal cells reduced the infection. Therefore, plants use EVs to send defense proteins into fungal pathogens, thereby combating infection. This mechanism represents a form of protein exchange between plants and pathogens, which contributes to reducing crop diseases.
PXD053274	39755278	Blood-based diagnosis of pediatric tuberculosis: a prospective cohort study in South Africa and Dominican Republic. 	Blood-based Diagnostics of Pediatric Tuberculosis: A Prospective Case-controlled Study	Non-sputum-based diagnostics, Pediatric tuberculosis	OBJECTIVES: Pediatric tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis is complicated by challenges in obtaining invasive respiratory specimens that frequently contain few Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) bacilli. We report the diagnostic performance of an Mtb antigen-derived peptide (MAP-TB) assay and its ability to monitor TB treatment response. METHODS: Study cohorts enrolled children who presented with presumptive TB at two hospitals in South Africa from 2012 to 2017 (157 children aged <13 years) and at community-based clinics in the Dominican Republic from 2019 to 2023 (101 children aged <18 years). Children were evaluated for TB at enrollment and six months post-enrollment and assigned confirmed, unconfirmed, or unlikely TB diagnoses using the 2015 NIH diagnostic criteria for pediatric TB. MAP-TB assay performance was evaluated using serum collected at baseline and at regular intervals post-enrollment following STARD guidelines. RESULTS: MAP-TB sensitivity for confirmed and unconfirmed TB was comparable to culture and Xpert sensitivity for confirmed TB, but MAP-TB specificity revealed age-dependence, decreasing from 98.1% to 78.4%, when including children aged <1 year. MAP-TB values decreased by six months post-treatment initiation in children with symptom improvement. CONCLUSIONS: Serum MAP-TB results can effectively diagnose pediatric TB, including unconfirmed and extrapulmonary TB missed by current methods, and correspond to effective treatment.
PXD054649	39755759	Investigating proteogenomic divergence in patient-derived xenograft models of ovarian cancer. 	Of mice and models: Investigating proteogenomic divergence in patient-derived xenograft models of ovarian cancer	ovarian cancer, patient-derived xenograft models (PDX), proteogenomics	Within ovarian cancer research, patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models recapitulate histologic features and genomic aberrations found in original tumors. However, conflicting data from published studies have demonstrated significant transcriptional differences between PDXs and original tumors, challenging the fidelity of these models. We employed a quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomic approach coupled with generation of patient-specific databases using RNA-seq data to investigate the proteogenomic landscape of serially-passaged PDX models established from two patients with distinct subtypes of ovarian cancer. We demonstrate that the utilization of patient-specific databases guided by transcriptional profiles increases the depth of human protein identification in PDX models. Our data show that human proteomes of serially passaged PDXs differ significantly from their patient-derived tumor of origin. Analysis of differentially abundant proteins revealed enrichment of distinct biological pathways with major downregulated processes including extracellular matrix organization and the immune system. Finally, we investigated the relative abundances of ovarian cancer-related proteins identified from the Cancer Gene Census across serially passaged PDXs, and found their protein levels to be unstable across PDX models. Our findings highlight features of distinct and dynamic proteomes of serially-passaged PDX models of ovarian cancer.
PXD057184	39757296	Structural insights into the interplay between microtubule polymerases, gamma-tubulin complexes and their receptors. 	Hydrogen exchange mass spectrometry analysis of the Spc72-Stu2 complex	microtubuli, spindle pole body, gamma-tubulin small complex	The gamma-tubulin ring complex (gamma-TuRC) is a structural template for controlled nucleation of microtubules from alpha/beta-tubulin heterodimers. At the cytoplasmic side of the yeast spindle pole body, the CM1-containing receptor protein Spc72 promotes gamma-TuRC assembly from seven gamma-tubulin small complexes (gamma-TuSCs) and recruits the microtubule polymerase Stu2, yet their molecular interplay remains unclear. Here, we determine the cryo-EM structure of the Candida albicans cytoplasmic nucleation unit at 3.6 Aa resolution, revealing how the gamma-TuRC is assembled and conformationally primed for microtubule nucleation by the dimerised Spc72 CM1 motif. Two coiled-coil regions of Spc72 interact with the conserved C-terminal alpha-helix of Stu2 and thereby position the alpha/beta-tubulin-binding TOG domains of Stu2 in the vicinity of the microtubule assembly site. Collectively, we reveal the function of CM1 motifs in gamma-TuSC oligomerisation and the recruitment of microtubule polymerases to the gamma-TuRC.
PXD042171	39757301	Nonenzymatic lysine D-lactylation induced by glyoxalase II substrate SLG dampens inflammatory immune responses. 	Quantification of lactylation in mouse peritoneal macrophages with or without stimulation of VSV by LS-MS/MS	Lactylation, Quantification, VSV, mouse peritoneal macrophages	Immunometabolism is critical in the regulation of immunity and inflammation; however, the mechanism of preventing aberrant activation-induced immunopathology remains largely unclear. Here, we report that glyoxalase II (GLO2) in the glycolysis branching pathway is specifically downregulated by NF-kappaB signaling during innate immune activation via tristetraprolin (TTP)-mediated mRNA decay. As a result, its substrate S-D-lactoylglutathione (SLG) accumulates in the cytosol and directly induces D-lactyllysine modification of proteins. This nonenzymatic lactylation by SLG is greatly facilitated by a nearby cysteine residue, as it initially reacts with SLG to form a reversible S-lactylated thiol intermediate, followed by SN-transfer of the lactyl moiety to a proximal lysine. Lactylome profiling identifies 2255 lactylation sites mostly in cytosolic proteins of activated macrophages, and global protein structure analysis suggests that proximity to a cysteine residue determines the susceptibility of lysine to SLG-mediated D-lactylation. Furthermore, lactylation is preferentially enriched in proteins involved in immune activation and inflammatory pathways, and D-lactylation at lysine 310 (K310) of RelA attenuates inflammatory signaling and NF-kappaB transcriptional activity to restore immune homeostasis. Accordingly, TTP-binding site mutation or overexpression of GLO2 in vivo blocks this feedback lactylation in innate immune cells and promotes inflammation, whereas genetic deficiency or pharmacological inhibition of GLO2 restricts immune activation and attenuates inflammatory immunopathology both in vitro and in vivo. Importantly, dysregulation of the GLO2/SLG/D-lactylation regulatory axis is closely associated with human inflammatory phenotypes. Overall, our findings uncover an immunometabolic feedback loop of SLG-induced nonenzymatic D-lactylation and implicate GLO2 as a promising target for combating clinical inflammatory disorders.
PXD035806	39758249	Enhancing immune response and survival in hepatocellular carcinoma with novel oncolytic Jurona virus and immune checkpoint blockade. 	Comprehensive Proteogenomic Analysis of the Anti-tumor Immunoactivity of a Novel Oncolytic Vesiculovirus in Hepatocellular Carcinoma	Jurona virus, Rhabdoviruses, hepatocellular carcinoma, oncolytic virotherapy	Members of the Vesiculovirus genus including Jurona virus (JURV) have emerged as promising immunotherapeutic agents, characterized by their tumor selectivity, fast kinetics, low seroprevalence, and minimal toxicity in humans. Here, we demonstrate that the administration of JURV leads to tumor regression in both hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) xenograft and syngeneic models. Furthermore, our findings indicate that combining JURV and anti-PD-1 therapy reduced tumor burden and improved survival rates over JURV or anti-PD-1 alone in an orthotopic HCC model. Proteogenomic analysis of JURV-treated, murine HCC tumors demonstrates that the therapeutic effects of the combination of JURV and anti-PD-1 are predominantly driven by coordinated activation of immune effectors, which modulate the tumor microenvironment into a state conducive to anti-tumor activity. Our results establish JURV as a potent candidate for immunovirotherapy in HCC, capable of modulating immune response and synergizing with standard of care for HCC to prolong survival in preclinical models. Further, this research deepens our understanding of JURV's anti-tumoral mechanisms and highlights its potential as a novel approach to HCC treatment strategies.
PXD058887	39759229	Integrated metabolomics and proteomics analysis reveals the accumulation mechanism of bioactive components in Polygonatum odoratum. 	Integrated proteomics and metabolomic analyses reveal the accumulation mechanism of bioactive components in Polygonatum odoratum	Polygonatum odoratum, flavonoids, metabolome, steroidal saponins	Polygonatum odoratum (Mill.) Druce is rich in bioactive components with high medicinal value. To maximize the clinical benefits, it is of great significance to efficiently extract key bioactive components from appropriate growth stages in which they are most abundant. In this study, we analyzed the changes of metabolite accumulation and protein expression in P. odoratum rhizomes at different growth stages using targeted metabolomics combined with proteomics, and identified a total of 1,237 differentially abundant metabolites (DAMs). Flavonoids accumulated most in winter, and the biosynthesis pathways associated with flavonoids, isoflavonoids, flavones and flavonols exhibited significant differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Among them, PGT, FLS, CYP75B1, HIDH, IF7MAT, and UFT73C6 were positively correlated with flavonoid accumulation. Steroid saponins accumulated most in spring, and the biosynthetic pathways of steroid and brassinosteroid biosynthesis exhibited DEPs. Among them, FDFT1, TM7SF2, DHCR7, CAS1, and 3BETAHSDD were positively correlated with steroidal saponin accumulation. In summary, these results revealed the accumulation of secondary metabolites P. odoratum in different growth stages, which can provide an effective reference for the extraction of specific bioactive components and the study of their regulatory mechanisms.
PXD058130	39761348	Proteomics- and metabolomics-based analysis of the regulation of germination in Norway maple and sycamore embryonic axes. 	Proteomics- and metabolomics-based analysis of the regulation of germination in Norway maple and sycamore embryonic axes	Acer platanoides, Acer pseudoplatanus, metabolite profiling, methionine sulfoxide, posttranslational modification, redox status, seed physiology, vitamin B.	Norway maple and sycamore belong to the Acer genus and produce desiccation-tolerant and desiccation-sensitive seeds, respectively. We investigated the seed germination process at the imbibed and germinated stages using metabolomic and proteomic approaches to determine why sycamore seeds germinate earlier and are more successful at establishing seedlings than Norway maple seeds under controlled conditions. Embryonic axes and embryonic axes with protruded radicles were analyzed at the imbibed and germinated stages, respectively. Among the 212 identified metabolites, 44 and 67 differentially abundant metabolites were found at the imbibed and germinated stages, respectively, in both Acer species. Higher levels of amines, growth and defense stimulants, including B vitamins, were found in sycamore. We identified 611 and 447 proteins specific to the imbibed and germinated stages, respectively, in addition to groups of proteins expressed at different levels. Functional analysis of significantly regulated proteins revealed that proteins with catalytic and binding activity were enriched during germination, and proteins possibly implicated in nitrogen metabolism and metabolite interconversion enzymes were the predominant classes. Proteins associated with the control of plant growth regulation and seed defense were observed in both species at both germination stages. Sycamore proteins possibly involved in abscisic acid signal transduction pathway, stress tolerance and alleviation, ion binding and oxygenase activities appeared to accompany germination in sycamore. We identified peptides containing methionine (Met) oxidized to methionine sulfoxide (MetO), and functional analyses of proteins with significantly regulated MetO sites revealed that translation, plant growth and development, and metabolism of nitrogen compounds were the main processes under Met/MetO redox control. We propose that higher levels of storage proteins and amines together with higher levels of B vitamins supported more efficient nitrogen utilization in sycamore, resulting in faster seedling growth. In conclusion, omic signatures identified in sycamore seem to predispose germinated sycamore seeds to better postgerminative growth.
PXD061409	39761842	Mass Spectrometric Detection of Keratins in Tear Fluid. 	Mass spectrometric detection of keratins in tear fluid	Biomarkers, Keratins, Schirmer strip, Tear fluid	PURPOSE: Keratin contamination is a common problem in mass spectrometry proteomic analyses, particularly in bottom-up mass spectrometry. The purpose of this study was to determine the protein contaminants introduced during the proteomic analysis of tear fluid. METHODS: Human tear fluid samples were collected using Schirmer strips. Proteomic analyses were performed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) on blank Schirmer strips and tear fluid samples, with empty vials serving as controls for assessing environmental contaminant proteins. RESULTS: We detected 26 contaminant proteins (18 keratins and 8 non-keratins). 98.2% of the total protein contamination can be attributed to the 9 keratins, including KRT10 (23.6%), KRT1 (23.5%), KRT2 (15.7%), KRT14 (7.6%), KRT16 (7.0%), KRT5 (6.1%), KRT9 (5.9%), KRT6B (4.6%), and KRT6A (4.3%). A comparison to the proteomic profile of blank Schirmer strips and controls (empty vials) found a strong correlation (R(2)=0.9753), indicating that these proteins were not from the blank Schirmer strips but are environmental contaminants. On the other hand, several keratins including KRT19, KRT13, KRT4, KRT7, KRT15, KRT8 and KRT18 were present in tear fluid, but either not detected or were negligible in blank strips. Another set of keratins, including KRT5, KRT6A, KRT14, KRT16, and KRT17, were identified as components of tear fluid as well as environmental contaminants. CONCLUSIONS: This study revealed nine major contaminant keratins in the mass spectrometry analysis. Several other keratins were identified as constituents of tear fluid. Background subtraction is necessary for the accurate analysis of tear fluid using mass spectrometry.
PXD054039	39761918	Elevated Levels of Serum Alpha-2-Macroglobulin Associate with Diabetes Status and Incident Cardiovascular Disease in Type 1 Diabetes. 	Serum Alpha-2-Macroglobulin Links Type 1 Diabetes Status and Incident Cardiovascular Disease	Alpha-2-macroglobulin, Cox proportional regression, MS, atherosclerosis, case-cohort design, incident cardiovascular disease, parallel reaction monitoring, proteomics.	BACKGROUND: Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a major cause of death in individuals with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). However, conventional risk factors do not fully account for the increased risk. This study aimed to investigate whether serum proteins associate with diabetes status and the occurrence of CVD in T1DM. STUDY DESIGN: We used isotope dilution-tandem mass spectrometry to quantify 28 serum proteins in 228 subjects participating in the prospective Coronary Artery Calcification in Type 1 Diabetes study. We used linear regression to analyze the association between serum protein levels and T1DM status using 47 healthy controls and 134 T1DM patients without CVD and Cox proportional hazards regression to assess their prediction for incident CVD by a case-cohort study using a subcohort of 145 T1DM subjects and a total of 47 CVD events. FINDINGS: Out of the 28 serum proteins studied, 5 of them-alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M), apolipoprotein A-IV, apolipoprotein L1, insulin-like growth factor 2, and phospholipid transfer protein-were significantly associated with T1DM status, with A2M being 1.6-fold higher in T1DM. After adjusting for potential confounders, A2M independently predicted incident CVD, with a mean hazard ratio of 3.3 and 95% confidence interval of 1.8-6.1. CONCLUSIONS: In our study, A2M showed the largest increase in serum levels when comparing patients with T1DM to control subjects. A2M also predicted incident CVD, suggesting that it could serve as both a marker and possibly a mediator of atherosclerosis in T1DM. These findings emphasize the importance of specific serum proteins in assessing and managing CVD risk in T1DM.
PXD049800	39765309	Matrix-mediated activation of murine fibroblast-like synoviocytes. 	Matrix-mediated activation of fibroblasts in rheumatoid arthritis	chondrocytes, cytokines, extracellular matrix, fibroblast-like synoviocytes	Fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) are key cells promoting cartilage damage and bone loss in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). They are activated to assume an invasive and migratory phenotype. While mechanisms of FLS activation are unknown, evidence suggests that pre-damaged extracellular matrix (ECM) of the cartilage can trigger FLS activation. Integrin alpha11beta1 might be involved in the activation, as it is increased in RA patients and hTNFtg mice, an RA mouse model. We treated murine chondrocytes with TNFalpha to produce a damaged, RA-like matrix. Comparison to healthy chondrocyte matrix revealed decreased ECM proteins, e.g. collagens and proteoglycans, increased matrix-degrading proteins and elevated levels of inflammatory cytokines. FLS responded to the damaged chondrocyte matrix with a matrix-remodeling and pro-inflammatory phenotype characterized by a gene signature involved in matrix degradation and increased production of CLL11 and CCL19. Damaged chondrocyte matrix stimulated increased Itga11 expression in FLS, correlating with the increased alpha11beta1 amounts in RA patients. FLS deficient in integrin alpha11beta1 released lower amounts of inflammation-associated cytokines. Our results demonstrate differences in healthy and RA-like chondrocyte ECM and distinctly different responses of wt FLS to damaged versus healthy ECM.
PXD046383	39765814	Elaeagnus latifolia Fruit Extract Ameliorates High-Fat Diet-Induced Obesity in Mice and Alleviates Macrophage-Induced Inflammation in Adipocytes In Vitro. 	Effects of Elaeagnus latifolia extract on anti-inflammation in LPS-induced macrophages	Elaeagnus latifolia, anti-Inflammation, anti-oxidation, macrophages, polyphenol	Elaeagnus latifolia (EL) is a wild fruit known for containing several health-promoting compounds. This study aimed to evaluate the effects of EL fruit extract on high-fat diet (HFD)-induced obesity and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated macrophages. Mice fed an HFD and given EL fruit extract for 10 weeks exhibited significantly lower body weight, reduced lipid accumulation, diminished oxidative stress in adipocytes, and decreased macrophage infiltration compared to those not receiving the EL extract. Moreover, the EL fruit extract activated the transcription factors Pparg and Cebpa, initiating adipogenesis and modulating the expression of NF-kappaB/Nrf-2-induced target genes. This resulted in smaller adipocyte size, reduced inflammation, and less oxidative stress in HFD-fed mice. In vitro, the EL extract induced a shift in macrophage phenotype from M1 to M2, reduced IkappaBalpha/NF-kappaB phosphorylation, and effectively decreased energy production in macrophages by downregulating the expression of several proteins involved in glycolysis and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. This mechanistic study suggests that administering EL fruit extract could be an effective strategy for managing obesity and its associated pathologies.
PXD055327	39765827	The Novel Elemene Derivative, OMe-Ph-Elemene, Attenuates Oxidative Phosphorylation and Facilitates Apoptosis by Inducing Intracellular Reactive Oxygen Species. 	OMe-Ph-Elemene treated colorectal cancer cells for proteomics sequencing	apoptosis, colorectal cancer, oxidative phosphorylation, oxidative stress, beta-Elemene	The incidence and mortality rates of colorectal cancer have been steadily increasing, making it one of the most prevalent cancers globally. Although current chemotherapy drugs have shown some efficacy in treating this disease, their associated side effects necessitate the development of more effective treatments and medications. The clinical application of elemene is widely utilized in tumor treatment; however, its efficacy is hindered by the requirement for high dosage and suboptimal anticancer effects. Thus, we have made modifications and enhancements to elemene, resulting in the development of a novel compound named (E)-8-(3,4,5-OMe-Ph)-beta-Elemene (abbreviated as OMe-Ph-Elemene) that demonstrates significantly enhanced efficacy in suppressing colorectal cancer. We conducted an in vivo study and demonstrated the potential of OMe-Ph-Elemene in suppressing the growth of colorectal cancer xenograft tumors in zebrafish. The in vitro experiments revealed that OMe-Ph-Elemene effectively inhibited the proliferation and migration of colorectal cancer SW480 and HT-29 cells by inducing reactive oxygen species (ROS)-caused apoptosis and inhibiting mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. The mechanism was elucidated through high-throughput proteomic analysis and molecular biological analysis, revealing that OMe-Ph-Elemene induced cellular oxidative stress by downregulating CISD3 and promoted cell apoptosis by downregulating TRIAP1 and upregulating HMOX1. Furthermore, OMe-Ph-Elemene suppressed colorectal cancer cells' mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation by downregulating NDUFA7. In summary, the utilization of the elemene parent nucleus structure has led to the derivation of a novel tumor suppressor compound characterized by high efficacy and low toxicity, thereby providing a significant reference for the development of innovative drugs for colorectal cancer treatment.
PXD053542	39766137	Phosphoproteomic Profiling Reveals mTOR Signaling in Sustaining Macrophage Phagocytosis of Cancer Cells. 	Proteomic response of macrophages to human cancer Raji cells	macrophages, phosphorylation	Background: Macrophage-mediated cancer cell phagocytosis has demonstrated considerable therapeutic potential. While the initiation of phagocytosis, facilitated by interactions between cancer cell surface signals and macrophage receptors, has been characterized, the mechanisms underlying its sustentation and attenuation post-initiation remain poorly understood. Methods: Through comprehensive phosphoproteomic profiling, we interrogated the temporal evolution of the phosphorylation profiles within macrophages during cancer cell phagocytosis. Results: Our findings reveal that activation of the mTOR pathway occurs following the initiation of phagocytosis and is crucial in sustaining phagocytosis of cancer cells. mTOR inhibition impaired the phagocytic capacity, but not affinity, of the macrophages toward the cancer cells by delaying phagosome maturation and impeding the transition between non-phagocytic and phagocytic states of macrophages. Conclusions: Our findings delineate the intricate landscape of macrophage phagocytosis and highlight the pivotal role of the mTOR pathway in mediating this process, offering valuable mechanistic insights for therapeutic interventions.
PXD052320	39769326	Integrated Transcriptomic, Proteomic, and Metabolomic Analyses Revealed Molecular Mechanism for Salt Resistance in Soybean (Glycine max L.) Seedlings. 	Proteome changes of soybean leaves after 24 h of 300 mM Nacl stress	soybean LC-MS leaf	Salt stress poses a significant challenge to plant growth and restricts agricultural development. To delve into the intricate mechanisms involved in soybean's response to salt stress and find targets to improve the salt resistance of soybean, this study integrated transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analyses to explore the regulatory networks involved in soybean salt tolerance. Transcriptomic analysis revealed significant changes in transcription factors, hormone-related groups, and calcium ion signaling. Notably, the biosynthetic pathways of cutin, suberine, and wax biosynthesis play an important role in this process. Proteomic results indicated salt-induced DNA methylation and the enrichment of phosphopyruvate hydrase post-salt stress, as well as its interaction with enzymes from various metabolic pathways. Metabolomic data unveiled the synthesis of various metabolites, including lipids and flavonoids, in soybean following salt stress. Furthermore, the integrated multiomics results highlighted the activation of multiple metabolic pathways in soybean in response to salt stress, with six pathways standing out prominently: stilbenoid, diarylheptanoid, and gingerol biosynthesis; carotenoid biosynthesis; carbon fixation in photosynthetic organisms; alanine, aspartate, and glutamate metabolism; thiamine metabolism; and pyruvate metabolism. These findings not only offer valuable insights into leveraging multiomics profiling techniques for uncovering salt tolerance mechanisms but also identify candidate genes for soybean improvement.
PXD056909	39769427	Identification of Protein Networks and Biological Pathways Driving the Progression of Atherosclerosis in Human Carotid Arteries Through Mass Spectrometry-Based Proteomics. 	Identification and label-free quantification of proteins in atherosclerotic human carotid arteries by nanoLC-MS/MS-based shotgun proteomics using data-independent acquisition	atherosclerosis, complicated lesion, data-independent LC-MS/MS, human carotid artery, quantitative label-free proteomics	Vulnerable atherosclerotic plaques, especially hemorrhaged lesions, are the major cause of mortalities related to vascular pathologies. The early identification of vulnerable plaques helps to stratify patients at risk of developing acute vascular events. In this study, proteomics analyses of human carotid artery samples collected from patients with atheromatous plaques and complicated lesions, respectively, as well as from healthy controls were performed. The proteins isolated from the carotid artery samples were analyzed by a bottom-up shotgun approach that relied on nanoflow liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analyses (LC-MS/MS) using both data-dependent (DDA) and data-independent (DIA) acquisitions. The data obtained by high-resolution DIA analyses displayed a stronger distinction among groups compared to DDA analyses. Differentially expressed proteins were further examined using Ingenuity Pathway Analysis((R)) with focus on pathological and molecular processes driving atherosclerosis. From the more than 150 significantly regulated canonical pathways, atherosclerosis signaling and neutrophil extracellular trap signaling were verified by protein-targeted data extraction. The results of our study are expected to facilitate a better understanding of the disease progression's molecular drivers and provide inspiration for further multiomics and hypothesis-driven studies.
PXD057709	39772686	Infection-induced lysine lactylation enables herpesvirus immune evasion. 	Regulation of Global Lysine Lactylation during HCMV Infection	AARS1, Alanine, Human Cytomegalovirus, Lactyllysine, Lysine Lactylation	Aerobic glycolysis is a hallmark of many viral infections, leading to substantial accumulation of lactate. However, the regulatory roles of lactate during viral infections remain poorly understood. Here, we report that human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) infection leverages lactate to induce widespread protein lactylation and promote viral spread. We establish that lactyllysine is enriched in intrinsically disordered regions, regulating viral protein condensates and immune signaling transduction. Dynamic lactylation of immune factors suppresses immunity, a feature we show to be shared for HCMV and herpes simplex virus 1 infections, through regulation of RNA binding protein 14 and interferon-gamma-inducible protein 16 (IFI16). K90 lactylation of the viral DNA sensor IFI16 inhibits recruitment of the DNA damage response kinase DNA-PK, preventing IFI16-driven virus gene repression and cytokine induction. Together, we characterize global protein lactylation dynamics during virus infection, finding that virus-induced lactate contributes to its immune evasion through direct inhibition of immune signaling pathways.
PXD050851	39772732	A Plasma Proteomics-Based Model for Identifying the Risk of Postpartum Depression Using Machine Learning. 	Collected plasma samples from 30 healthy postpartum women and 30 postpartum depression patients for proteomic analysis using Data-Independent Acquisition (DIA)	postpartum depression	Postpartum depression (PPD) poses significant risks to maternal and infant health, yet proteomic analyses of PPD-risk women remain limited. This study analyzed plasma samples from 30 healthy postpartum women and 30 PPD-risk women using mass spectrometry, identifying 98 differentially expressed proteins (29 upregulated and 69 downregulated). Principal component analysis revealed distinct protein expression profiles between the groups. Functional enrichment and PPI analyses further explored the biological functions of these proteins. Machine learning models (XGBoost and LASSO regression) identified 17 key proteins, with the optimal logistic regression model comprising P13797 (PLS3), P56750 (CLDN17), O43173 (ST8SIA3), P01593 (IGKV1D-33), and P43243 (MATR3). The model demonstrated excellent predictive performance through ROC curves, calibration, and decision curves. These findings suggest potential biomarkers for early PPD risk assessment, paving the way for personalized prediction. However, limitations include the lack of diagnostic interviews, such as the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-V (SCID), to confirm PPD diagnosis, a small sample size, and limited ethnic diversity, affecting generalizability. Future studies should expand sample diversity, confirm diagnoses with SCID, and validate biomarkers in larger cohorts to ensure their clinical applicability.
PXD059077	39773120	Proteomic analysis of egg production peak and senescence in the ovaries of Taihe black-boned silky fowl (Gallus gallus domesticus Brisson). 	Chicken ovary rapid DIA proteome data	chicken, ovary	BACKGROUND: The Taihe black-boned silky fowl, a distinguished indigenous breed of chicken, is renowned for its dual utility in both traditional medicinal and culinary applications. However, the breed faces significant challenges due to its suboptimal reproductive capabilities and a notably brief egg-laying period, which have impeded its broader development and cultivation. In this research endeavor, we employed an advanced, rapid DIA (Data independent acquisition) quantitative proteomics method on the Astral platform to meticulously analyze the ovarian proteome of these chickens. By analyzing the ovarian proteomic information of Taihe black-boned silky fowl during peak and decline egg-laying periods, we aim to identify potential reproductive candidate proteins and the molecular mechanisms underlying egg-laying decline. This could enable us to implement interventions to improve the reproductive efficiency of this valuable breed. RESULT: In this study, a total of 8,281 proteins were identified within the ovarian proteome of the Taihe black-boned silky fowl. Among these, 303 proteins exhibited significant differential expression, with 98 proteins significantly up-regulated and 205 proteins significantly down-regulated. The functional annotation of these proteins illuminated their crucial roles in the steroid hormone synthesis pathways, which are pivotal during the peak of egg production. Furthermore, during the later stages of laying, there was a noticeable upregulation of proteins associated with inflammatory senescence and oxidative stress. This change suggests an increase in reproductive stress within the ovary, highlighting the physiological shifts that affect productivity as the chickens age. CONCLUSION: This study identified key candidate protein markers in the Taihe black-boned silky fowl during critical phases of their reproductive cycle, specifically peak and late egg-laying periods. These findings contribute valuable new scientific insights that can be utilized for the breeding optimization and effective management of this unique breed. By elucidating the protein dynamics during different laying phases, the research offers potential strategies aimed at enhancing reproductive performance and extending the reproductive lifespan of the Taihe black-boned silky fowl. This could lead to significant improvements in both the sustainability and profitability of farming this indigenous breed.
PXD058715	39773246	Whole tissue proteomic analyses of cardiac ATTR and AL unveil mechanisms of tissue damage. 	Cardiac Amyloid Tissue Proteome	AL, ATTR, cardiac amyloid	BACKGROUND: Cardiac AL and ATTR are potentially fatal cardiomyopathies. Current therapies do not address mechanisms of tissue dysfunction because these remain unknown. Our prior work focused on the amyloid plaque proteome, which may not capture tissue-wide proteomic alterations. OBJECTIVES: To evaluate mechanisms of tissue dysfunction in cardiac AL and ATTR using a full biopsy tissue proteomics approach. METHODS: We performed proteomics analysis on 76 ATTR and 27 AL diagnostic endomyocardial biopsies. RESULTS: Stage-3 AL patients exhibited increased coagulation, extracellular matrix remodelling (ECM), epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT), complement activation, hypoxia, and clathrin-mediated endocytosis pathways vs. stages-1/2, with decreased healthy cardiac metabolism. In stages-2 and 3 ATTR, immunoglobulin proteins, complement, and keratinisation pathways were increased compared to stage-1. Unsupervised analyses identified an ATTR group with worse survival characterised by upregulated complement and downregulated metabolic pathways. Compared to ATTR, AL had higher clathrin-mediated endocytosis, mRNA splicing, and ribosomal proteins, while ATTR had higher complement levels. CONCLUSIONS: This study identifies known processes dysregulated in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction as well as novel pathways responsible for tissue damage. Our results support an immune-mediated mechanism of tissue toxicity in cardiac amyloidosis, especially among patients with worse outcomes.
PXD047277	39774270	Phase separation of initiation hubs on cargo is a trigger switch for selective autophagy. 	APEX2 mediated proximity labeling to investigate the proximal proteome of mitochondria tethered ULK1 in wild type and fip200 knock down cells	APEX2, Autophagy, ER, FIP200, FRB-rapalog-FKBP interaction, Mitophagy, ULK1	Autophagy is a key cellular quality control mechanism. Nutrient stress triggers bulk autophagy, which nonselectively degrades cytoplasmic material upon formation and liquid-liquid phase separation of the autophagy-related gene 1 (Atg1) complex. In contrast, selective autophagy eliminates protein aggregates, damaged organelles and other cargoes that are targeted by an autophagy receptor. Phase separation of cargo has been observed, but its regulation and impact on selective autophagy are poorly understood. Here, we find that key autophagy biogenesis factors phase separate into initiation hubs at cargo surfaces in yeast, subsequently maturing into sites that drive phagophore nucleation. This phase separation is dependent on multivalent, low-affinity interactions between autophagy receptors and cargo, creating a dynamic cargo surface. Notably, high-affinity interactions between autophagy receptors and cargo complexes block initiation hub formation and autophagy progression. Using these principles, we converted the mammalian reovirus nonstructural protein microNS, which accumulates as particles in the yeast cytoplasm that are not degraded, into a neo-cargo that is degraded by selective autophagy. We show that initiation hubs also form on the surface of different cargoes in human cells and are key to establish the connection to the endoplasmic reticulum, where the phagophore assembly site is formed to initiate phagophore biogenesis. Overall, our findings suggest that regulated phase separation underscores the initiation of both bulk and selective autophagy in evolutionarily diverse organisms.
PXD054825	39774652	Elucidation of peptide screen for targeted identification of Yersinia pestis by nano-liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. 	Elucidation of peptide screen for targeted identification of Yersinia pestis by nano-liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.	Peptide-based screen, Soil, Yersinia pestis., nLC-MS/MS	Yersinia pestis, a Gram-negative bacterium is the causative agent of the fatal communicable disease plague. The disease had a profound impact on human history. Plague bacteria are usually transmitted to humans through the bite of an infected rat flea. Earlier studies have indicated that Y. pestis can survive in environmental matrices e.g. water and soil. This study aimed to generate a peptide-based screen for identification of Y. pestis particularly from environmental matrices. We employed a shotgun proteomic approach using nano-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (nLC-MS/MS) to discover Y. pestis-specific peptides. The pure cultures of Y. pestis and related species were grown, their proteome were delineated and analyzed by in silico tools to discover 61 Y. pestis specific peptides. Additionally, 148 peptides were discovered from proteins of Y. pestis-specific plasmids and chromosomal-associated virulence markers. To validate this screen of 209 peptides, various concentrations of Y. pestis (ranging from 1.3 x 10(8) to 1.3 x 10(5) cfu) were spiked into garden soil. Y. pestis could be identified in all samples except un-spiked negative control soil sample. This study offers a valuable method for the identification of Y. pestis, by tandem mass spectrometry which may be used in environmental and clinical matrices.
PXD038980	39774695	Chronology of transcriptome and proteome expression during early Arabidopsis flower development. 	Transcriptome and proteome correlation during APETALA1-mediated activation of flower development in Arabidopsis	APETALA1, Development, Inflorescences	The complex gene regulatory landscape underlying early flower development in Arabidopsis has been extensively studied through transcriptome profiling, and gene networks controlling floral organ development have been derived from the analyses of genome wide binding of key transcription factors. In contrast, the dynamic nature of the proteome during the flower development process is much less understood. In this study, we characterized the floral proteome at different stages during early flower development and correlated it with unbiased transcript expression data. Shotgun proteomics and transcript profiling were conducted using an APETALA1-based floral induction system. A specific analysis pipeline to process the time-course proteomics data was developed. In total, 8,924 proteins and 23,069 transcripts were identified. Co-expression analysis revealed that RNA-protein pairs clustered in various expression pattern modules. An overall positive correlation between RNA and protein level changes was observed, but subgroups of RNA/protein pairs with anticorrelated gene expression changes were also identified and found to be enriched in hormone responsive pathways. In addition, the RNA-seq dataset reported here further expanded the identification of genes whose expression changes during early flower development, and its combination with previously published AP1 ChIP-seq datasets allowed the identification of additional AP1 direct and high-confidence targets.
PXD051310	39777419	Inflammation and response to bacterial infection as potential drivers of equine odontoclastic tooth resorption and hypercementosis: A proteomics insight. 	Inflammation and response to bacterial infection as  potential drivers of equine odontoclastic tooth resorption and hypercementosis: A proteomic insight	Dental, Equine, Teeth	BACKGROUND: Equine dental diseases significantly impact a horse's overall health, performance and quality of life. They can result in secondary infections and digestive disturbances, potentially leading to colic. A recently described disease affecting the incisors of horses is equine odontoclastic tooth resorption and hypercementosis (EOTRH). Understanding EOTRH is crucial for early diagnosis, effective management and prevention of its severe consequences. OBJECTIVES: To determine proteomic differences in incisor cementum in horses with and without clinical EOTRH. STUDY DESIGN: Comparative and observational clinical study. METHODS: Teeth were extracted (N = 5) and cementum was isolated using a diamond wire. Proteins were extracted using an optimised sequential workflow, and trypsin was digested for mass spectrometry. Protein identification and label-free quantification were undertaken. RESULTS: In total 1149 unique proteins were detected in cementum across all samples. We identified four proteins exclusively in EOTRH-affected cementum. EOTRH samples showed a higher heterogeneity than healthy samples. In total, 54 proteins were increased in EOTRH, and 64 proteins were reduced (adjusted p-value <0.05). Inflammatory proteins, such as cathepsin G (p = 0.004), neutrophil elastase (p = 0.003), bactericidal permeability-increasing protein (p = 0.002), azurocidin (p = 0.003) and lactotransferrin (p = 0.002) were all increased in EOTRH. Pathway analysis revealed that antimicrobial peptides (Z score 2.65, p = 1.93E-09) and neutrophil degranulation (Z-score 1.89, p = 1.7E-04) were commonly up-regulated canonical pathways. MAIN LIMITATIONS: The sample size was limited. Lack of age-matched healthy controls. CONCLUSION: EOTRH leads to biochemical changes within the cementum proteome, which are important in explaining the physiological changes occurring in disease. Differentially abundant proteins may represent promising biomarkers for earlier disease detection and the establishment of a cell-based model could provide further insight into the role these proteins play in hypercementosis and resorption.
PXD043839	39777639	Circadian Proteomics Reassesses the Temporal Regulation of Metabolic Rhythms by Chlamydomonas Clock. 	Direct evaluation of metabolic rhythms from quantitative circadian proteomics revealed  rampant post-transcriptional regulation by Chlamydomonas clock	C. reinhardtii, Circadian Clock, SWATH-MS, post-transcriptional regulations	Circadian clocks execute temporal regulation of metabolism by modulating the timely expression of genes. Clock regulation of mRNA synthesis was envisioned as the primary driver of these daily rhythms. mRNA oscillations often do not concur with the downstream protein oscillations, revealing the importance to study protein oscillations. Chlamydomonas reinhardtii is a well-studied miniature plant model. We quantitatively probed the Chlamydomonas proteome for two subsequent circadian cycles using high throughput SWATH-DIA mass spectrometry. We quantified > 1000 proteins, half of which demonstrate circadian rhythms. Among these rhythmic proteins, > 90% peak around subjective midday or midnight. We uncovered key enzymes involved in Box C/D pathway, amino acid biosynthesis, fatty acid (FA) biosynthesis and peroxisomal beta-oxidation of FAs are driven by the clock, which were undocumented from earlier transcriptomic studies. Proteins associated with key biological processes such as photosynthesis, redox, carbon fixation, glycolysis and TCA cycle show extreme temporal regulation. We conclude that circadian proteomics is required to complement transcriptomic studies to understand the complex clock regulation of organismal biology. We believe our study will not only refine and enrich the evaluation of temporal metabolic processes in C. reinhardtii but also provide a novel understanding of clock regulation across species.
PXD058018	39778025	Identification of CENPM as a key gene driving adrenocortical carcinoma metastasis via physical interaction with immune checkpoint ligand FGL1. 	DIA quantitative proteomics of CENPM knockdown SW-13 cells	ACC, DIA, SW-13, siCENPM	BACKGROUND: Distant metastasis occurs in the majority of adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC), leading to an extremely poor prognosis. However, the key genes driving ACC metastasis remain unclear. METHODS: Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) and functional enrichment analysis were conducted to identify ACC metastasis-related genes. Data from RNA-seq and microarray were analyzed to reveal correlations of the CENPM gene with cancer, metastasis, and survival in ACC. Immunohistochemistry was used to assess CENPM protein expression. The impact of CENPM on metastasis behaviour was verified in ACC (H295R and SW-13) cells and xenograft NPG mice. DIA quantitative proteomics analysis, western blot, immunofluorescence, and co-immunoprecipitation assay were performed to identify the downstream target of CENPM. RESULTS: Among the 12 035 analyzed genes, 363 genes were related to ACC metastasis and CENPM was identified as the hub gene. CENPM was upregulated in ACC samples and associated with metastasis and poor prognosis. Knockdown of CENPM inhibited proliferation, invasion, and migration of ACC cells and suppressed liver metastasis in xenograft NPG mice. Collagen-containing extracellular matrix signalling was primarily downregulated when CENPM was knocked down. FGL1, important components of ECM signalling and immune checkpoint ligand of LAG3, were downregulated following CENPM silence, overexpressed in human advanced ACC samples, and colocalized with CENPM. Physical interaction between CENPM and FGL1 was identified. Overexpression of FGL1 rescued migration and invasion of CENPM knockdown ACC cells. CONCLUSIONS: CENPM is a key gene in driving ACC metastasis. CENPM promotes ACC metastasis through physical interaction with the immune checkpoint ligand FGL1. CENPM can be used as a new prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target for metastatic ACC. HIGHLIGHTS: CENPM is the key gene that drives ACC metastasis, and a robust biomarker for ACC prognosis. Silencing CENPM impedes ACC metastasis in vitro and in vivo by physical interaction with immune checkpoint ligand FGL1. FGL1 is overexpressed in ACC and promotes ACC metastasis.
PXD056171	39779666	S100P is a ferroptosis suppressor to facilitate hepatocellular carcinoma development by rewiring lipid metabolism. 	S100P OE cells Proteome LC-MS/MS	S100P, cells	Ferroptosis is a newly identified programmed cell death induced by iron-driven lipid peroxidation and implicated as a potential approach for tumor treatment. However, emerging evidence indicates that hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells are generally resistant to ferroptosis and the underlying molecular mechanism is poorly understood. Here, our study confirms that S100 calcium binding protein P (S100P), which is significantly up-regulated in ferroptosis-resistant HCC cells, efficiently inhibits ferroptosis. Mechanistically, S100P facilitates lysosomal degradation of acetyl-CoA carboxylase alpha (ACC1), which is indispensable for de novo biosynthesis of lipids. Loss of S100P elevates the expression of ACC1 and promotes ferroptotic sensitivity of HCC cells. S100P-mediated ACC1 degradation relies on RAB5C, which directs ACC1 to lysosome via P62-dependent selective autophagy. Knockdown of RAB5C or P62 abrogates S100P-induced lysosomal degradation of ACC1 and restores resistance of HCC cells to ferroptosis. Our work reveals an alternative anti-ferroptosis pathway and suggests S100P as a promising druggable target for ferroptosis-related therapy of HCC.
PXD058133	39779680	Structural basis of RNA polymerase complexes in African swine fever virus. 	Structural basis of RNA polymerase complexes in African swine fever virus	African swine fever virus, protein	African swine fever virus is highly contagious and causes a fatal infectious disease in pigs, resulting in a significant global impact on pork supply. The African swine fever virus RNA polymerase serves as a crucial multifunctional protein complex responsible for genome transcription and regulation. Therefore, it is essential to investigate its structural and functional characteristics for the prevention and control of African swine fever. Here, we determine the structures of endogenous African swine fever virus RNA polymerase in both nucleic acid-free and elongation states. The African swine fever virus RNA polymerase shares similarities with the core of typical RNA polymerases, but possesses a distinct subunit M1249L. Notably, the dynamic binding mode of M1249L with RNA polymerase, along with the C-terminal tail insertion of M1249L in the active center of DNA-RNA scaffold binding, suggests the potential of M1249L to regulate RNA polymerase activity within cells. These results are important for understanding the transcription cycle of the African swine fever virus and for developing antiviral strategies.
PXD033072	39779760	Biochemical and structural characterization of Rab3GAP reveals insights into Rab18 nucleotide exchange activity. 	HDX-MS Analysis of the Rab3GAP1/Rab3GAP2	HDX-MS, Rab18, Rab3GAP1, Rab3GAP2	The heterodimeric Rab3GAP complex is a guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) for the Rab18 GTPase that regulates lipid droplet metabolism, ER-to-Golgi trafficking, secretion, and autophagy. Why both subunits of Rab3GAP are required for Rab18 GEF activity and the molecular basis of how Rab3GAP engages and activates its cognate substrate are unknown. Here we show that human Rab3GAP is conformationally flexible and potentially autoinhibited by the C-terminal domain of its Rab3GAP2 subunit. Our high-resolution structure of the catalytic core of Rab3GAP, determined by cryo-EM, shows that the Rab3GAP2 N-terminal domain binds Rab3GAP1 via an extensive interface. AlphaFold3 modelling analysis together with targeted mutagenesis and in vitro activity assay reveal that Rab3GAP likely engages its substrate Rab18 through an interface away from the switch and interswitch regions. Lastly, we find that three Warburg Micro Syndrome-associated missense mutations do not affect the overall architecture of Rab3GAP but instead likely interfere with substrate binding.
PXD050064	39783889	Distinct molecular properties and functions of small EV subpopulations isolated from human umbilical cord MSCs using tangential flow filtration combined with size exclusion chromatography. 	Exosomal subgroups isolated from MSCs by tangential flow filtration combined with size exclusion chromatography reals distinct molecular properties and functions	Characterization, Exosome, MSC, biogenesis, function, subgroup	As functional derivatives of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) have garnered significant attention and application in regenerative medicine. However, the technical limitations for large-scale isolation of sEVs and their heterogeneous nature have added complexity to their applications. It remains unclear if the heterogeneous sEVs represent different aspects of MSCs functions. Here, we provide a method for the large-scale production of sEVs subpopulations derived from human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (HucMSCs), utilizing tangential flow filtration combined with size exclusion chromatography. The resulting subpopulations, S1-sEVs and S2-sEVs, exhibited stable variations in size, membrane-marked proteins, and carrying cargos, thereby displaying distinct functions both in vitro and in animal disease models. S1-sEVs, that highly expressed CD9, HRS and GPC1, demonstrated a greater immunomodulatory impact, while S2-sEVs with enriched expression of CD63 and FLOT1/2 possessed enhanced capacities in promoting cell proliferation and angiogenesis. These discrepancies are attributed to the specific proteins and miRNAs they contain. Further investigation revealed that the two distinct sEVs subpopulations corresponded to different biological processes: the ESCRT pathway (S1-sEVs) and the ESCRT-independent pathway represented by lipid rafts (S2-sEVs). Therefore, we propose the potential for large-scale isolation and purification of sEVs subpopulations from HucMSCs with distinct functions. This approach may provide advantages for targeted therapeutic interventions in various MSC indications.
PXD051742	39785238	Rational Modification of a Cross-Linker for Improved Flexible Protein Structure Modeling. 	Monolinks Matter: Rational Modification of a Cross-Linker for Improved Flexible Protein Structure Modeling	Alphafold, Monolink, crosslink, dsso-carbamate, protein structure	Chemical cross-linking/mass spectrometry (XL-MS) has emerged as a complementary tool for mapping interaction sites within protein networks as well as gaining moderate-resolution native structural insight with minimal interference. XL-MS technology mostly relies on chemoselective reactions (cross-linking) between protein residues and a linker. DSSO represents a versatile cross-linker for protein structure investigation and in-cell XL-MS. However, our assessment of its shelf life and batch purity revealed decomposition of DSSO in anhydrous solution via a retro-Michael reaction, which may reduce the active ingredient down to below 90%. To mitigate the occurrence of this degradative mechanism, we report the rational design and synthesis of DSSO-carbamate, which contains an inserted nitrogen atom in the DSSO backbone structure. This modification to DSSO yielded remarkably favorable stability against such decomposition, which translated to higher cross-link and monolink recovery when performing XL-MS on monomeric flexible proteins. Recently, XL-MS has been leveraged against AlphaFold2 and other protein structure prediction algorithms for improved prediction of flexible monomeric multiconformational proteins. To this end, we demonstrate that our novel cross-linker, termed DSSO-carbamate, generated more accurate protein structure predictions when combined with AlphaFold2, on account of its increased recovery of cross-links and monolinks, compared to DSSO. As such, DSSO-carbamate represents a useful addition to the XL-MS community, particularly for protein structure prediction.
PXD058674	39788430	TGM2-mediated histone serotonylation promotes HCC progression via MYC signalling pathway. 	TGM2-mediated histone serotonylation promotes HCC progression via MYC signalling pathway	5-PT pulldown-MS, TGM2 IP-MS	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is an aggressive malignancy with few effective treatment options. H3Q5ser, a serotonin-based histone modification mediated by transglutaminase 2 (TGM2), affects diverse biological processes, such as neurodevelopment. The role of TGM2-mediated H3Q5ser in HCC progression remains unclear. This study investigated the role of TGM2 in promoting HCC progression and evaluated its potential as a therapeutic target for HCC treatment. METHODS: Adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated liver-specific overexpression models of Tgm2 or H3.3 were adopted to validate the effects of H3Q5ser on HCC progression. CUT&Tag and RNA sequencing was employed to investigate the underlying mechanisms. HCC organoids, subcutaneous xenograft models, and hydrodynamic tail vein injection models were used to evaluate the treatment efficiency of TGM2 inhibitors. RESULTS: TMG2 expression positively correlated with higher AFP levels, poor differentiation, and a later BCLC stage. Tgm2 deficiency or H3Q5ser inhibition notably inhibited HCC progression. CUT&Tag and RNA sequencing analyses revealed that downregulated genes were enriched in the MYC pathway following treatment with the TGM2 inhibitors. Furthermore, transcriptional intermediary factor 1 beta mediated the recruitment of TGM2 to MYC, facilitating H3Q5ser modifications on MYC target genes. Finally, targeting the transglutaminase activity of TGM2 significantly suppressed HCC progression and showed synergy with sorafenib treatment in preclinical models. TGM2 inhibitors did not cause significant myelosuppression or tissue damage. CONCLUSIONS: TGM2 serves as a prognostic biomarker and targeting its transglutaminase activity may be an effective strategy for inhibiting HCC progression.
PXD056766	39789191	Chemically engineered antibodies for autophagy-based receptor degradation. 	Chemically Engineered Antibodies for Autophagy-based Receptor Degradation.	AUTAB, autophagy, targeted protein degradation	Cell surface receptor-targeted protein degraders hold promise for drug discovery. However, their application is restricted because of the complexity of creating bifunctional degraders and the reliance on specific lysosome-shuttling receptors or E3 ubiquitin ligases. To address these limitations, we developed an autophagy-based plasma membrane protein degradation platform, which we term AUTABs (autophagy-inducing antibodies). Through covalent conjugation with polyethylenimine (PEI), the engineered antibodies acquire the capacity to degrade target receptors through autophagy. The degradation activities of AUTABs are self-sufficient, without necessitating the participation of lysosome-shuttling receptors or E3 ubiquitin ligases. The broad applicability of this platform was then illustrated by targeting various clinically important receptors. Notably, combining specific primary antibodies with a PEI-tagged secondary nanobody also demonstrated effective degradation of target receptors. Thus, our study outlines a strategy for directing plasma membrane proteins for autophagic degradation, which possesses desirable attributes such as ease of generation, independence from cell type and broad applicability.
PXD054858	39789911	Pacmanvirus isolated from the Lost City hydrothermal field extends the concept of transpoviron beyond the family Mimiviridae. 	MS-based proteomic characterization of pacmanvirus lostcity virions	Giant viruses, hydrothermal field, nanoLC-MS/MS, pacmanviruses, purified virions	The microbial sampling of submarine hydrothermal vents remains challenging, with even fewer studies focused on viruses. Here we report the first isolation of a eukaryotic virus from the Lost City hydrothermal field, by co-culture with the laboratory host Acanthamoeba castellanii. This virus, named pacmanvirus lostcity, is closely related to previously isolated pacmanviruses (strains A23 and S19), clustering in a divergent clade within the long-established family Asfarviridae. Its icosahedral particles are 200 nm in diameter, with an electron-dense core surrounded by an inner membrane. Its genome of 395 708 bp (33% G + C) is predicted to encode 473 proteins. However, besides these standard properties, pacmanvirus lostcity was found associated with a new type of selfish genetic element, 7 kb in length, whose architecture and gene content are reminiscent of those of transpovirons, hitherto specific to the family Mimiviridae. Like previously described transpovirons, this element propagates as an episome within its host virus particles and exhibits partial recombination with its genome. In addition, an unrelated 2 kb long episome was also associated with pacmanvirus lostcity. Together, the transpoviron and the 2 kb episome might participate to exchanges between pacmanviruses and other large DNA virus families. It remains to be elucidated if the presence of these mobile genetic elements is restricted to pacmanviruses or was simply overlooked in other members of the Asfarviridae.
PXD057096	39790178	Mechanistic insight into human milk extracellular vesicle-intestinal barrier interactions. 	Mechanistic Insight into Human Milk Extracellular Vesicle-Intestinal Barrier Interactions	EV cell uptake, EV intestinal translocation, EV proteomics, Human milk EVs	Human milk extracellular vesicles (EVs) are crucial mother-to-baby messengers that transfer biological signals. These EVs are reported to survive digestion and transport across the intestine. The mechanisms of interaction between human milk EVs and the intestinal mucosa, including epithelial uptake remain unclear. Here, we studied the interaction of human milk EVs with the gut barrier components, including intestinal biofluids, enzymes, mucus and epithelium. Additionally, we probed the endocytic mechanisms mediating the EV intestinal uptake. Finally, using proteomic analysis, we determined the existence and identification of proteins enriched in the EV fraction transported across the intestinal epithelium. We show that human milk EVs are largely stable in the biochemical gut barriers and demonstrate high mucus diffusivity. EVs show a high level of epithelial cell uptake (~70%) and efficient transport across Caco-2 monolayers. Whilst cell uptake of EVs was mediated by multiple routes, none of the pathway-specific inhibitors inhibited their epithelial translocation. Proteomic analysis of EVs transported across Caco-2 monolayers identified 14 enriched EV proteins that may facilitate intestinal transport. These findings significantly expand our understanding of the interactions between human milk EVs and the gut barriers, including their intestinal uptake.
PXD054368	39790466	Expanding the recognition of monosaccharides and glycans: A comprehensive analytical approach using chemical-nose/tongue technology and a comparison to lectin microarrays. 	Site-specific glycoform analysis of mouse tissue N-glycoproteomes by the Glyco-RIDGE method	Glyco-RIDGE, glycan heterogeneity, glycoproteomics, mouse tissue, site-specific N-glycoform	Chemical-nose/tongue technologies are emerging as promising analytical tools for glycan analysis. After briefly introducing the importance of glycans and their analytical methods, including the lectin microarray (LMA) as one of the gold standards, the fundamental principles underlying chemical noses/tongues are explained and various applications for monosaccharides and glycans are introduced. Then, the similarities and differences of these two approaches are discussed. While both technologies aim to comprehensively profile biospecimens based on 'interaction patterns' between multiple recognition probes and analytes, each has its own strengths. LMAs excel at specific, targeted analysis based on defined lectin-glycan interactions, whereas chemical nose/tongue offers greater flexibility and expandability in terms of system design, making it well-suited for discovering unknown glycan profiles and detecting broader differences in glycan mixtures. In the future, chemical-nose/tongue technologies may be applied to niche areas in glycan analysis and become powerful tools that complement LMA techniques.
PXD056876	39790482	The proteomic response of Aspergillus fumigatus to amphotericin B (AmB) reveals the involvement of the RTA-like protein RtaA in AmB resistance. 	The proteomic response of Aspergillus fumigatus wildtype and rtaA knockout strain to Amphotericin B	Amphotericin B, Aspergillus fumigatus, RtaA, antifungals	The polyene antimycotic amphotericin B (AmB) and its liposomal formulation AmBisome belong to the treatment options of invasive aspergillosis caused by Aspergillus fumigatus. Increasing resistance to AmB in clinical isolates of Aspergillus species is a growing concern, but mechanisms of AmB resistance remain unclear. In this study, we conducted a proteomic analysis of A. fumigatus exposed to sublethal concentrations of AmB and AmBisome. Both antifungals induced significantly increased levels of proteins involved in aromatic acid metabolism, transmembrane transport, and secondary metabolite biosynthesis. One of the most upregulated proteins was RtaA, a member of the RTA-like protein family, which includes conserved fungal membrane proteins with putative functions as transporters or translocases. Accordingly, we found that RtaA is mainly located in the cytoplasmic membrane and to a minor extent in vacuolar-like structures. Deletion of rtaA led to increased polyene sensitivity and its overexpression resulted in modest resistance. Interestingly, rtaA expression was only induced by exposure to the polyenes AmB and nystatin, but not by itraconazole and caspofungin. Orthologues of rtaA were also induced by AmB exposure in A. lentulus and A. terreus. Deletion of rtaA did not significantly change the ergosterol content of A. fumigatus, but decreased fluorescence intensity of the sterol-binding stain filipin. This suggests that RtaA is involved in sterol and lipid trafficking, possibly by transporting the target ergosterol to or from lipid droplets. These findings reveal the contribution of RtaA to polyene resistance in A. fumigatus, and thus provide a new putative target for antifungal drug development.
PXD053127	39792662	Flap endonuclease 1 repairs DNA-protein cross-links via ADP-ribosylation-dependent mechanisms. 	Flap endonuclease 1 repairs DNA-protein crosslinks via ADP-ribosylation	DNA-protein crosslink, DPC composition, In vivo complex of enzyme assay, formaldehyde DNA-protein crosslink	DNA-protein cross-links (DPCs) are among the most detrimental genomic lesions. They are ubiquitously produced by formaldehyde (FA), and failure to repair FA-induced DPCs blocks chromatin-based processes, leading to neurodegeneration and cancer. The type, structure, and repair of FA-induced DPCs remain largely unknown. Here, we profiled the proteome of FA-induced DPCs and found that flap endonuclease 1 (FEN1) resolves FA-induced DPCs. We revealed that FA also damages DNA bases adjoining the DPCs, leading to DPC-conjugated 5' flap structures via the base excision repair (BER) pathway. We also found that FEN1 repairs enzymatic topoisomerase II (TOP2)-DPCs. Furthermore, we report that both FA-induced and TOP2-DPCs are adenosine diphosphate (ADP) ribosylated by poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP1). PARylation of the DPCs in association with FEN1 PARylation at residue E285 is required for the recruitment of FEN1. Our work unveils the identity of proteins forming FA-induced DPCs and a previously unrecognized PARP1-FEN1 nuclease pathway repairing both FA- and TOP2-DPCs.
PXD041397	39794466	Comprehensive discovery and functional characterization of the noncanonical proteome. 	Human gastric micropeptides LC-MS/MS	gastric cancer, micropeptide	The systematic identification and functional characterization of noncanonical translation products, such as novel peptides, will facilitate the understanding of the human genome and provide new insights into cell biology. Here, we constructed a high-coverage peptide sequencing reference library with 11,668,944 open reading frames and employed an ultrafiltration tandem mass spectrometry assay to identify novel peptides. Through these methods, we discovered 8945 previously unannotated peptides from normal gastric tissues, gastric cancer tissues and cell lines, nearly half of which were derived from noncoding RNAs. Moreover, our CRISPR screening revealed that 1161 peptides are involved in tumor cell proliferation. The presence and physiological function of a subset of these peptides, selected based on screening scores, amino acid length, and various indicators, were verified through Flag-knockin and multiple other methods. To further characterize the potential regulatory mechanisms involved, we constructed a framework based on artificial intelligence structure prediction and peptide-protein interaction network analysis for the top 100 candidates and revealed that these cancer-related peptides have diverse subcellular locations and participate in organelle-specific processes. Further investigation verified the interacting partners of pep1-nc-OLMALINC, pep5-nc-TRHDE-AS1, pep-nc-ZNF436-AS1 and pep2-nc-AC027045.3, and the functions of these peptides in mitochondrial complex assembly, energy metabolism, and cholesterol metabolism, respectively. We showed that pep5-nc-TRHDE-AS1 and pep2-nc-AC027045.3 had substantial impacts on tumor growth in xenograft models. Furthermore, the dysregulation of these four peptides is closely correlated with clinical prognosis. Taken together, our study provides a comprehensive characterization of the noncanonical proteome, and highlights critical roles of these previously unannotated peptides in cancer biology.
PXD051453	39794871	Salivary proteomics and metaproteomics identifies distinct molecular and taxonomic signatures of type-2 diabetes. 	Salivary Proteomics and Metaproteomics Identifies Distinct Molecular and Taxonomic Signatures Of Type 2 Diabetes	Biomarker, DIA-PASEF, Genus, Metaproteomics, Microbiome, Peptide, Protein, Saliva, Type-2-diabetes	BACKGROUND: Saliva is a protein-rich body fluid for noninvasive discovery of biomolecules, containing both human and microbial components, associated with various chronic diseases. Type-2 diabetes (T2D) imposes a significant health and socio-economic burden. Prior research on T2D salivary microbiome utilized methods such as metagenomics, metatranscriptomics, 16S rRNA sequencing, and low-throughput proteomics. RESULTS: We conducted ultrafast, in-depth MS-based proteomic and metaproteomic profiling of saliva from 15 newly diagnosed T2D individuals and 15 age-/BMI-matched healthy controls (HC). Using state-of-the-art proteomics, over 4500 human and bacterial proteins were identified in a single 21-min run. Bioinformatic analysis revealed host signatures of altered immune-, lipid-, and glucose-metabolism regulatory systems, increased oxidative stress, and possible precancerous changes in T2D saliva. Abundance of peptides for bacterial genera such as Neisseria and Corynebacterium were altered showing biomarker potential, offering insights into disease pathophysiology and microbial applications for T2D management. CONCLUSIONS: This study presents a comprehensive mapping of salivary proteins and microbial communities, serving as a foundational resource for enhancing understanding of T2D pathophysiology. The identified biomarkers hold promise for advancing diagnostics and therapeutic approaches in T2D and its associated long-term complication Video Abstract.
PXD055891	39796100	From High Protection to Lethal Effect: Diverse Outcomes of Immunization Against Invasive Candidiasis with Different Candida albicans Extracellular Vesicles. 	Label free comparison of the protein cargo of extracellular vesicles (EVs) isolated from SC5314 and ecm33 mutant cells of Candida albicans after 16 hours of growth in YPD medium	C. albicans, ecm33 mutant, extracellular vesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) from Candida albicans can elicit immune responses, positioning them as promising acellular vaccine candidates. We characterized EVs from an avirulent C. albicans cell wall mutant (ecm33Delta) and evaluated their protective potential against invasive candidiasis. EVs from the yeast (YEVs) and hyphal (HEVs) forms of the SC5314 wild-type strain were also tested, yielding high survival rates with SC5314 YEV (91%) and ecm33 YEV immunization (64%). Surprisingly, HEV immunization showed a dual effect, resulting in 36% protection but also causing premature death in some mice. Proteomic analyses revealed distinct profiles among the top 100 proteins in the different EVs, which may explain these effects: a shared core of 50 immunogenic proteins such as Pgk1, Cdc19, and Fba1; unique, relevant immunogenic proteins in SC5314 YEVs; and proteins linked to pathogenesis, like Ece1 in SC5314 HEVs. Sera from SC5314 YEV-immunized mice showed the highest IgG2a titers and moderate IL-17, IFN-gamma, and TNF-alpha levels, indicating the importance of both humoral and cellular responses for protection. These findings highlight the distinct immunogenic properties of C. albicans EVs, suggesting their potential in acellular vaccine development while emphasizing the need to carefully evaluate pathogenic risks associated with certain EVs.
PXD057872	39796253	Transcriptomic and Proteomic Analysis of Monkeypox Virus A5L-Expressing HEK293T Cells. 	Proteome of Mpox virus A5L-expressing HEK293T cells	Proteome MPXV A5L	Monkeypox (MPOX) is a zoonotic viral disease caused by the Monkeypox virus (MPXV), which has become the most significant public health threat within the Orthopoxvirus genus since the eradication of the Variola virus (VARV). Despite the extensive attention MPXV has garnered, little is known about its clinical manifestations in humans. In this study, a high-throughput RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) approach was employed to investigate the transcriptional and metabolic responses of HEK293T cells to the MPXV A5L protein. RNA-seq analysis identified a total of 1473 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), comprising 911 upregulated and 562 downregulated genes. Additionally, LC-MS/MS analysis revealed 185 cellular proteins with significantly altered abundance ratios that interact with the A5L protein. Here, we perform Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) analysis of the transcriptome and proteome signatures of MPXV A5L-expressing HEK293T cells to gain insights into the virus proteins-host interplay. Transcriptomic analysis revealed that transfection of the MPXV A5L protein modulated genes primarily associated with the cell cycle, ribosome, and DNA replication. Proteomic analysis indicated that this protein predominantly interacted with host ribosomal proteins and cytoskeletal proteins. The combination of transcriptomic and proteomic analysis offers new perspectives for understanding the interaction between pathogens and hosts. Our research emphasizes the significant role of MPXV A5L in facilitating viral internalization and assembly, as well as its impact on the host's translation system.
PXD042575	39798878	Differential substrate specificity of ERK, JNK, and p38 MAP kinases toward Connexin 43. 	Differential MAPK Phosphorylation of Connexin43	ERK, GJA1, JNK, MAPK, connexin43, kinase assay, p38	Phosphorylation of connexin 43 (Cx43) is an important regulatory mechanism of gap junction (GJ) function. Cx43 is modified by several kinases on over 15 sites within its ~140 amino acid-long C-terminus (CT). Phosphorylation of Cx43CT on S255, S262, S279, and S282 by ERK has been widely documented in several cell lines, by many investigators. Phosphorylation of these sites by JNK and p38, on the other hand, is not well-established. Indeed, ERK is a kinase activated by growth factors and is upregulated in diseases, such as cancer. JNK and p38, however, have a largely tumor-suppressive function due to their stress-activated and apoptotic role. We investigated substrate specificity of all three MAPKs toward Cx43CT, first by using purified proteins, and then in two cell lines (MDCK - non-cancerous, epithelial cells and porcine PAECs - pulmonary artery endothelial cells). Cx43 phosphorylation was monitored through gel-shift assays on an SDS-PAGE, immunodetection with phospho-Cx43 antibodies, and LC-MS/MS phosphoproteomic analyses. Our results demonstrate that p38 and JNK specificity differ from each other and from ERK. JNK has a strong preference for S255, S262, and S279, while p38 readily phosphorylates S262, S279, and S282. While we confirmed that ERK can phosphorylate all four serines (255, 262, 279, and 282), we also identified T290 as a novel ERK phosphorylation site. In addition, we assessed Cx43 GJ function upon activation or inhibition of each MAPK in PAECs. This work underscores the importance of delineating the effects of ERK, JNK, and p38 signaling on Cx43 and GJ function.
PXD042724	39799154	Molecular basis for the enzymatic inactivity of class III glutaredoxin ROXY9 on standard glutathionylated substrates. 	Molecular basis for the enzymatic inactivity of class III glutaredoxins on standard glutathionylated substrates	CC-type glutaredoxins, glutathione, oxidoreductase, redox potential, thiol-disulfide	Class I glutaredoxins (GRXs) are nearly ubiquitous proteins that catalyse the glutathione (GSH)-dependent reduction of mainly glutathionylated substrates. In land plants, a third class of GRXs has evolved (class III). Class III GRXs regulate the activity of TGA transcription factors through yet unexplored mechanisms. Here we show that Arabidopsis thaliana class III GRX ROXY9 is inactive as an oxidoreductase on widely used model substrates. Glutathionylation of the active site cysteine, a prerequisite for enzymatic activity, occurs only under highly oxidizing conditions established by the GSH/glutathione disulfide (GSSG) redox couple, while class I GRXs are readily glutathionylated even at very negative GSH/GSSG redox potentials. Thus, structural alterations in the GSH binding site leading to an altered GSH binding mode likely explain the enzymatic inactivity of ROXY9. This might have evolved to avoid overlapping functions with class I GRXs and raises questions of whether ROXY9 regulates TGA substrates through redox regulation.
PXD058644	39799562	Structural and Functional Glycosylation of the Abdala COVID-19 Vaccine. 	Structural and Functional Glycosylation of the Abdala COVID-19 Vaccine	Abdala, COVID, Glycosylation, SARS	Abdala is a COVID-19 vaccine produced in Pichia pastoris and is based on the receptor-binding domain (RBD) of the SARS-CoV-2 spike. Abdala is currently approved for use in multiple countries with clinical trials confirming its safety and efficacy in preventing severe illness and death. Although P. pastoris is used as an expression system for protein-based vaccines, yeast glycosylation remains largely uncharacterised across immunogens. Here, we characterise N-glycan structures and their site of attachment on Abdala and show how yeast-specific glycosylation decreases binding to the ACE2 receptor and a receptor-binding motif (RBM) targeting antibody compared to the equivalent mammalian-derived RBD. Reduced receptor and antibody binding is attributed to changes in conformational dynamics resulting from N-glycosylation. These data highlight the critical importance of glycosylation in vaccine design and demonstrate how individual glycans can influence host interactions and immune recognition via protein structural dynamics.
PXD030487	397	Nucleotide-metabolizing enzymes in Chlamydomonas flagella. 	Label-free quantitative proteome of CD34+ or CKIT+ AML cells and mobilized PB CD34+ cells	acute myeloid leukemia, leukemic stem/progenitor cells	Nucleotides have at least two functions in eukaryotic cilia and flagella. ATP, originating in the cells, is utilized for motility by energy-transducing protein(s) called dynein, and the binding of guanine nucleotides to tubulin, and probably certain transformations of the bound nucleotides, are prerequisites for the assembly of microtubules. Besides dynein, which can be solubulized from Chlamydomonas flagella as a heterogeneous, Mg2+ or Ca2+-activated ATPase, we have purified and characterized five other flagellar enzymes involved in nucleotide transformations. A homogeneous, low molecular weight, Ca2+-specific adenosine triphosphatase was isolated, which was inhibited by Mg2+ and was not specific for ATP. This enzyme was not formed by treating purified dynein with proteases. It was absent from extracts of Tetrahymena cilia. Its function might be an auxiliary energy transducer, or in steering or tactic responses. Two species of adenylate kinase were isolated, one of which was much elevated in regenerating flagella; the latter was also present in cell bodies. A large part of flagellar nucleoside diphosphokinase activity could not be solubilized. Two soluble enzyme species were identified, one of which was also present in cell bodies. Since these enzymes are of interest because they might function in microtubule assembly, we studied the extent to which brain nucleoside diphosphokinase co-polymerizes with tubulin purified by repeated cycles of polymerization. Arginine kinase was not detected in Chlamydomonas flagellar extracts.
PXD056499	39800687	Targeting the ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK pathways attenuates Golgi tethering factor golgin-97 depletion-induced cancer progression in breast cancer. 	Quantitative proteomics reveals inflammatory signaling in golgin-97 knockout-mediated breast cancer progression	Golgi, breast cancer, golgin-97, inflammatory, metastasis	BACKGROUND: The Golgi apparatus is widely considered a secretory center and a hub for different signaling pathways. Abnormalities in Golgi dynamics can perturb the tumor microenvironment and influence cell migration. Therefore, unraveling the regulatory network of the Golgi and searching for pharmacological targets would facilitate the development of novel anticancer therapies. Previously, we reported an unconventional role for the Golgi tethering factor golgin-97 in inhibiting breast cell motility, and its downregulation was associated with poor patient prognosis. However, the specific role and regulatory mechanism of golgin-97 in cancer progression in vivo remain unclear. METHODS: We integrated genetic knockout (KO) of golgin-97, animal models (zebrafish and xenograft mice), multi-omics analysis (next-generation sequencing and proteomics), bioinformatics analysis, and kinase inhibitor treatment to evaluate the effects of golgin-97 KO in triple-negative breast cancer cells. Gene knockdown and kinase inhibitor treatment followed by qRT-PCR, Western blotting, cell viability, migration, and cytotoxicity assays were performed to elucidate the mechanisms of golgin-97 KO-mediated cancer invasion. A xenograft mouse model was used to investigate cancer progression and drug therapy. RESULTS: We demonstrated that golgin-97 KO promoted breast cell metastasis in zebrafish and xenograft mouse models. Multi-omics analysis revealed that the Wnt signaling pathway, MAPK kinase cascades, and inflammatory cytokines are involved in golgin-97 KO-induced breast cancer progression. Targeting the ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK pathways effectively attenuated golgin-97-induced cancer cell migration, reduced the expression of inflammatory mediators, and enhanced the chemotherapeutic effect of paclitaxel in vitro and in vivo. Specifically, compared with the paclitaxel regimen, the combination of ERK1/2 and p38 MAPK inhibitors significantly prevented lung metastasis and lung injury. We further demonstrated that hypoxia is a physiological condition that reduces golgin-97 expression in cancer, revealing a novel and potential feedback loop between ERK/MAPK signaling and golgin-97. CONCLUSION: Our results collectively support a novel regulatory role of golgin-97 in ERK/MAPK signaling and the tumor microenvironment, possibly providing new insights for anti-breast cancer drug development.
PXD058460	39800728	Moderate-intensity interval exercise exacerbates cardiac lipotoxicity in high-fat, high-calories diet-fed mice. 	Moderate-Intensity Interval Exercise Exacerbates Cardiac Lipotoxicity in High-Fat, High-Calories Diet-Fed Mice	exercise, high fat feed, lipotoxicity	Physical exercise is a cornerstone for preventing diet-induced obesity, while it is unclear whether physical exercise could offset high-fat, high-calories diet (HFCD)-induced cardiac dysfunction. Here, mice were fed with HFCD and simultaneously subjected to physical exercise. As expected, physical exercise prevented HFCD-induced whole-body fat deposition. However, physical exercise exacerbated HFCD-induced cardiac damage. Further metabolomic analysis results showed that physical exercise induced circulating lipid redistribution, leading to excessive cardiac lipid uptake and lipotoxicity. Our study provides valuable insights into the cardiac effects of exercise in mice fed with HFCD, suggesting that counteracting the negative effect of HFCD by simultaneous physical exercise might be detrimental. Moreover, inappropriate physical exercise may damage certain organs even though it leads to weight loss and overall metabolic benefits. Of note, the current findings are based on animal experiments, the generalizability of these findings beyond this specific diet and mouse strain remains to be further explored.
PXD021671	39801720	Multiomic analyses reveal enriched glycolytic processes in beta-myosin heavy chain-expressed cardiomyocytes in early cardiac hypertrophy. 	Adult mouse cardiomyocytes in early stage of pressure overload	cardiac hypertrophy, cardiomyocytes, pressuer ovelroad	Background: Cardiac pressure overload induces cardiac hypertrophy and eventually leads to heart failure. One distinct feature of pathological cardiac hypertrophy is fetal-gene re-expression, but not every cardiomyocyte exhibits fetal gene re-expression in the diseased heart. Adult cardiomyocytes are terminally differentiated cells, so we do not know how the heterogeneity is determined and whether the differential fetal-gene reprogramming indicates a different degree of remodeling among cardiomyocytes. We hypothesized that fetal gene-expressed cardiomyocytes show more pathological features in the pressure-overloaded heart. Results: We induced pressure overload in mice by transverse aortic constriction (TAC) and observed a cardiomyocyte population with expression of beta-myosin heavy chain (betaMHC, a fetal gene encoded by Myh7) after TAC for 3 days. On transcriptomic and proteomic analyses, betaMHC-expressed cardiomyocytes of 3-day TAC hearts were enriched in genes in cardiomyopathy-associated pathways and glycolytic processes. Moreover, results of immunoblotting and enzyme activity assay suggested higher glycolytic activity in betaMHC-expressed than non-expressed cardiomyocytes. When we inhibited the glycolytic flux by 2-deoxy-d-glucose, a widely used glycolysis inhibitor, the number of betaMHC-expressed cardiomyocytes was reduced, and the level of TEA domain family member 1 (TEAD1), a transcriptional enhancer, was decreased. Also, our spatial transcriptomic results demonstrated that naive and 3-day TAC hearts had fetal-gene-rich tissue domains that were enriched in pathways in extracellular matrix organization and tissue remodeling. As well, gene levels of glycolytic enzymes were higher in Myh7-positive than Myh7-negative domains. Conclusions: Our data suggest that betaMHC-expressed cardiomyocytes progress to pathological remodeling in the early stages of cardiac hypertrophy. In addition, the diverse glycolytic activity among cardiomyocytes might play a role in regulating gene expression via TEAD1 signaling.
PXD056370	39801836	Post-testicular spermatozoa of a marine teleost can conduct de novo cytoplasmic and mitochondrial translation. 	Teleost spermatozoa can conduct de novo cytoplasmic and mitochondrial translation during post-testicular maturation	Fish, efferent duct, polysomes, sperm motility	Translational silence of spermatozoa has long been considered the norm in animals. However, studies in mammals have shown that the mitochondrial ribosomal machinery is selectively activated during capacitation in the female reproductive tract, while cytosolic ribosomes remain inactive. Here, using quantitative proteomics in a piscine model species, we show that proteins involved in mRNA processing and cytoplasmic translation are predominantly accumulated in immature spermatozoa within the extratesticular excurrent ducts, while those related to flagellar motility are enriched in ejaculated (mature) sperm. Based upon in vitro incubation of isolated spermatozoa, motility assays and polysome profiling, we further show that 80S cytoplasmic and 55S mitochondrial ribosomes are actively involved in the translation of motility- and osmoadaptation-related proteins. These findings thus reveal that post-testicular piscine spermatozoa can maintain de novo protein synthesis through both mitochondrial and cytoplasmic ribosomal activity, which is necessary for the acquisition of full sperm function.
PXD044170	39802437	Sacubitril/valsartan reduces proteasome activation and cardiomyocyte area in an experimental mouse model of hypertrophy. 	Sacubitrilat reduces cardiomyocyte hypertrophy and proteasome activation in experimental mouse and human models	Autophagy-lysosomal pathway, cardiac function, heart failure, pressure overload, sacubitril/valsartan, ubiquitin-proteasome system	Sacubitril/valsartan (Sac/Val) belongs to the group of angiotensin receptor-neprilysin inhibitors and has been used for the treatment of heart failure (HF) for several years. The mechanisms that mediate the beneficial effects of Sac/Val are not yet fully understood. In this study we investigated whether Sac/Val influences the two proteolytic systems, the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and the autophagy-lysosomal pathway (ALP), in a mouse model of pressure overload induced by transverse aortic constriction (TAC) and in human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (hiPSC-CMs) treated with endothelin-1 (ET1) serving as a human cellular model of hypertrophy. TAC mice showed a continuous decline in cardiac function starting from day 14 after surgery. Administration of Sac/Val for 6 weeks counteracted the deterioration of cardiac function and attenuated hypertrophy and fibrosis in TAC mice. The expression of ALP key markers did not differ between the groups. Proteasome activity was higher in TAC mice and normalized by Sac/Val. In hiPSC-CMs, all treatments (Sac, Val or Sac/Val) normalized mean cell area. However, Sac alone or in combination with Val, but not Val alone prevented ET1-induced hypertrophic gene program and proteomic changes. In conclusion, Sac/Val normalized proteasome activity, improved cardiac function and reduced fibrosis and hypertrophy in TAC mice. Molecular analysis in hiPSC-CMs suggests that a major part of the beneficial effects of Sac/Val is derived from the Sac action rather than from Val.
PXD055279	39802703	Proteomic identification of a Toxoplasma gondii sporozoite-specific antigen using HDAC3 inhibitor-treated tachyzoites as surrogate. 	Proteomic identification of a Toxoplasma gondii sporozoite-specific antigen using HDAC3 inhibitor-treated tachyzoites as surrogate	IP-MS, Protein-Protein Interaction, Toxoplasma gondii	The apicomplexan parasite Toxoplasma gondii has a complex life cycle. Access to sexual stages and sporozoite-containing oocysts, essential for studying the parasite's environmental transmission, is limited and requires animal experiments with cats. Thus, alternatives and resource-efficient methods are needed. Several molecular factors and transcriptional switches responsible for differentiation have been identified in recent years. In tachyzoites, drug-induced inhibition of the histone deacetylase HDAC3, or genetic depletion of transcription factors regulating HDAC3, leads to the expression of genes that are specific to sexual stages and oocysts. Here, we applied this concept and showed that the commercially available HDAC3 inhibitor apicidin could be used to identify the hitherto unknown antigen of the sporozoite-specific monoclonal antibody G1/19 in tachyzoites. Using mass spectrometry of immunoprecipitated G1/19 target protein from apicidin-treated cultures, we identified it as SporoSAG. In addition, for the much less abundant sporozoite-specific protein LEA860, apicidin treatment was still sufficient to induce a detectable protein level in immunofluorescence microscopy. We also discuss further applications and the limitations of this approach. This allows to overcome issues with the paucity of material of sexual stages and oocysts from T. gondii to some extent without the need for cat-derived material.
PXD063206	39803527	Maintenance of neuronal TDP-43 expression requires axonal lysosome transport. 	Maintenance of neuronal TDP-43 expression requires axonal lysosome transport	iPSC neurons TDP43	TDP-43 mislocalization and pathology occurs across a range of neurodegenerative diseases, but the pathways that modulate TDP-43 in neurons are not well understood. We generated a Halo-TDP-43 knock-in iPSC line and performed a genome-wide CRISPR interference FACS-based screen to identify modifiers of TDP-43 levels in neurons. A meta-analysis of our screen and publicly available screens identified both specific hits and pathways present across multiple screens, the latter likely responsible for generic protein level maintenance. We identified BORC, a complex required for anterograde lysosome transport, as a specific modifier of TDP-43 protein, but not mRNA, levels in neurons. BORC loss led to longer half-life of TDP-43 and other proteins, suggesting lysosome location is required for proper protein turnover. As such, lysosome location and function are crucial for maintaining TDP-43 protein levels in neurons.
PXD054133	39803891	4D-DIA Proteomics Uncovers New Insights into Host Salivary Response Following SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Infection. 	4D-DIA Proteomics Uncovers New Insights into Host Salivary Response Following SARS-CoV-2 Omicron Infection	COVID-19, Omicron, SARS-CoV-2, dia-PASEF, mass-spectrometry, saliva	Since late 2021, Omicron variants have dominated the epidemiological scenario as the most successful severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) sublineages, driving new and breakthrough infections globally over the past two years. In this study, we investigated for the first time the host salivary response of COVID-19 patients infected with Omicron variants (BA.1, BA.2, and BA.4/5) by using an untargeted four-dimensional data-independent acquisition (4D-DIA)-based proteomics approach. We identified 137 proteins whose abundance levels differed between the COVID-19 positive and negative groups. Salivary signatures were mainly enriched in ribosomal proteins, linked to mRNAviral translation, protein synthesis and processing, immune innate, and antiapoptotic signaling. The higher abundance of 14-3-3 proteins (YWHAG, YWHAQ, YWHAE, and SFN) in saliva, first reported here, may be associated with increased infectivity and improved viral replicative fitness. We also identified seven proteins (ACTN1, H2AC2, GSN, NDKA, CD109, GGH, and PCYOX) that yielded comprehension into Omicron infection and performed outstandingly in screening patients with COVID-19 in a hospital setting. This panel also presented an enhanced anti-COVID-19 and anti-inflammatory signature, providing insights into disease severity, supported by comparisons with other proteome data sets. The salivary signature provided valuable insights into the host's response to SARS-CoV-2 Omicron infection, shedding light on the pathophysiology of COVID-19, particularly in cases associated with mild disease. It also underscores the potential clinical applications of saliva for disease screening in hospital settings. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD054133.
PXD054057	39804742	Structural Dynamics of the Ubiquitin Specific Protease USP30 in Complex with a Cyanopyrrolidine-Containing Covalent Inhibitor. 	Structural Dynamics of the Ubiquitin Specific Protease USP30 in Complex with a Cyanopyrrolidine-Containing Covalent Inhibitor Structural Dynamics of the Ubiquitin Specific Protease USP30 in Complex with a Cyanopyrrolidine-Containing Covalent Inhibitor	Activity-Based Protein Profiling Mass Spectrometry, Cyanopyrrolidine Inhibitors, Enzyme Kinetics, Hydrogen Deuterium eXchange-Mass Spectrometry, Mitophagy, Molecular Docking, Ubiquitin Specific Protease USP30	Inhibition of the mitochondrial deubiquitinating (DUB) enzyme USP30 is neuroprotective and presents therapeutic opportunities for the treatment of idiopathic Parkinson's disease and mitophagy-related disorders. We integrated structural and quantitative proteomics with biochemical assays to decipher the mode of action of covalent USP30 inhibition by a small-molecule containing a cyanopyrrolidine reactive group, USP30-I-1. The inhibitor demonstrated high potency and selectivity for endogenous USP30 in neuroblastoma cells. Enzyme kinetics and hydrogen-deuterium eXchange mass spectrometry indicated that the inhibitor binds tightly to regions surrounding the USP30 catalytic cysteine and positions itself to form a binding pocket along the thumb and palm domains of the protein, thereby interfering its interaction with ubiquitin substrates. A comparison to a noncovalent USP30 inhibitor containing a benzosulfonamide scaffold revealed a slightly different binding mode closer to the active site Cys77, which may provide the molecular basis for improved selectivity toward USP30 against other members of the DUB enzyme family. Our results highlight advantages in developing covalent inhibitors, such as USP30-I-1, for targeting USP30 as treatment of disorders with impaired mitophagy.
PXD058303	39808946	ATAD2 is a potential immunotherapy target for patients with small cell lung cancer harboring HLA-A*0201. 	ATAD2 is a Potential Immunotherapy Target for Patients with Small Cell Lung Cancer Harboring HLA-A*0201	HLA-peptide complexes, Immunopeptidomics, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis	BACKGROUND: Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) represents a highly aggressive neuroendocrine tumour with a dismal prognosis. Currently, the identification of a specific tumour antigen that can facilitate immune-based therapies for SCLC remains elusive. METHODS: We employed liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to analyse cancer/testis antigens (CTAs) in SCLC cell lines and human tumour specimens. Immunohistochemistry of clinical specimens was performed to compare protein expression in SCLC, non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), and matched normal-adjacent tissues. Additionally, publicly available RNA sequencing databases were interrogated to identify gene expression patterns in different SCLC subtypes and in different disease stages. FINDINGS: Distinct numbers and types of CTAs were identified across SCLC subtypes, with significantly higher expression levels of ATPase family AAA domain-containing protein 2 (ATAD2) observed in SCLC compared to normal adjacent tissues and NSCLC tissues. A dynamic expression pattern of ATAD2 was found throughout the clinical course of SCLC and exhibited a positive correlation with achaete-scute family bHLH transcription factor 1 (ASCL1) expression in SCLC. Immunopeptidomics analysis identified the YSDDDVPSV sequence derived from the HLA-A*02:01 restriction epitope of ATAD2 as a highly promising tumour antigen candidate for potential immunotherapy applications. YSDDDVPSV immunopeptides were confirmed to be present in SCLC-A and SCLC-N with HLA-A*02:01 restriction. Notably, HLA-A*02:01 T cells exhibited a robust response upon stimulation with YSDDDVPSV immunopeptide pulsed by T2 cells. INTERPRETATION: Our findings highlight the potential of targeting the ATAD2 YSDDDVPSV immunopeptide for SCLC immunotherapy, thereby offering a promising avenue for the development of adoptive T cell therapies to effectively treat ASCL1-positive or NEUROD1-positive SCLC carrying HLA-A*02:01. FUNDING: This study was supported by the National key R&D program of China (2022YFC2505000); National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) general program (82272796) NSFC special program (82241229); CAMS Innovation Fund for Medical Sciences (CIFMS 2022-I2M-1-009); CAMS Key Laboratory of Translational Research on Lung Cancer (2018PT31035); Aiyou foundation (KY201701). National key R&D program of China (2022YFC2505004). NSFC general program (81972905). Medical Oncology Key Foundation of Cancer Hospital Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences (CICAMS-MOCP2022012).
PXD057337	39809268	Dual ferroptosis induction in N2-TANs and TNBC cells via FTH1 targeting: A therapeutic strategy for triple-negative breast cancer. 	Proteins raw data using CT-1 in MDA-MB-231	CT-1, MDA-MB-231 cells, Proteins raw data	Tumor-associated neutrophils (TANs) play a critical role in the progression and prognosis of triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC), with N2-type TANs known for their pro-tumor characteristics. This study introduces CT-1, a derivative of cryptotanshinone that effectively suppresses TNBC growth while selectively reducing the proportion of N2-type TANs within tumor tissue. Notably, CT-1 induces simultaneous ferroptosis in both N2-type TANs and TNBC cells, a dual mechanism that enhances its therapeutic efficacy. The study identifies ferritin heavy chain 1 (FTH1), a key protein in iron metabolism, as the direct target of CT-1. By targeting FTH1, CT-1 facilitates the interaction between NCOA4 and ferritin, triggering ferritinophagy-mediated ferroptosis. These findings position CT-1 as a promising therapeutic agent, offering a strategy to combat TNBC by inducing ferroptosis in both N2-type TANs and cancer cells. This approach underscores the potential of FTH1 as a therapeutic target for treating TNBC.
PXD050285	39809795	Addressing genome scale design tradeoffs in Pseudomonas putida for bioconversion of an aromatic carbon source. 	Multi-Functional Enzymes and Metabolic Cross-Feeding Constrain Implementation of Genome Scale Metabolic Model Based Designs	GSMM, Omics, strain engineering	Genome-scale metabolic models (GSMM) are commonly used to identify gene deletion sets that result in growth coupling and pairing product formation with substrate utilization and can improve strain performance beyond levels typically accessible using traditional strain engineering approaches. However, sustainable feedstocks pose a challenge due to incomplete high-resolution metabolic data for non-canonical carbon sources required to curate GSMM and identify implementable designs. Here we address a four-gene deletion design in the Pseudomonas putida KT2440 strain for the lignin-derived non-sugar carbon source, p-coumarate (p-CA), that proved challenging to implement. We examine the performance of the fully implemented design for p-coumarate to glutamine, a useful biomanufacturing intermediate. In this study glutamine is then converted to indigoidine, an alternative sustainable pigment and a model heterologous product that is commonly used to colorimetrically quantify glutamine concentration. Through proteomics, promoter-variation, and growth characterization of a fully implemented gene deletion design, we provide evidence that aromatic catabolism in the completed design is rate-limited by fumarase hydratase (FUM) enzyme activity in the citrate cycle and requires careful optimization of another fumarate hydratase protein (PP_0897) expression to achieve growth and production. A double sensitivity analysis also confirmed a strict requirement for fumarate hydratase activity in the strain where all genes in the growth coupling design have been implemented. Metabolic cross-feeding experiments were used to examine the impact of complete removal of the fumarase hydratase reaction and revealed an unanticipated nutrient requirement, suggesting additional functions for this enzyme. While a complete implementation of the design was achieved, this study highlights the challenge of completely inactivating metabolic reactions encoded by under-characterized proteins, especially in the context of multi-gene edits.
PXD056871	39809933	Nanocarrier imaging at single-cell resolution across entire mouse bodies with deep learning. 	Nanocarrier imaging at single-cell resolution across entire mouse bodies with deep learning	AI, Nanocarriers, Single-cell resolution, Tissue clearing, Whole-body Imaging	Efficient and accurate nanocarrier development for targeted drug delivery is hindered by a lack of methods to analyze its cell-level biodistribution across whole organisms. Here we present Single Cell Precision Nanocarrier Identification (SCP-Nano), an integrated experimental and deep learning pipeline to comprehensively quantify the targeting of nanocarriers throughout the whole mouse body at single-cell resolution. SCP-Nano reveals the tissue distribution patterns of lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) after different injection routes at doses as low as 0.0005 mg kg(-1)-far below the detection limits of conventional whole body imaging techniques. We demonstrate that intramuscularly injected LNPs carrying SARS-CoV-2 spike mRNA reach heart tissue, leading to proteome changes, suggesting immune activation and blood vessel damage. SCP-Nano generalizes to various types of nanocarriers, including liposomes, polyplexes, DNA origami and adeno-associated viruses (AAVs), revealing that an AAV2 variant transduces adipocytes throughout the body. SCP-Nano enables comprehensive three-dimensional mapping of nanocarrier distribution throughout mouse bodies with high sensitivity and should accelerate the development of precise and safe nanocarrier-based therapeutics.
PXD052133	39811653	Roles for the long non-coding RNA Pax6os1/PAX6-AS1 in pancreatic beta cell function. 	Pax6os1 pull-down in MIN6 cell lysate	Mouse lncRNA SILAC	Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are emerging as crucial regulators of beta cell function. Here, we show that an lncRNA-transcribed antisense to Pax6, annotated as Pax6os1/PAX6-AS1, was upregulated by high glucose concentrations in human as well as murine beta cell lines and islets. Elevated expression was also observed in islets from mice on a high-fat diet and patients with type 2 diabetes. Silencing Pax6os1/PAX6-AS1 in MIN6 or EndoC-betaH1 cells increased several beta cell signature genes' expression. Pax6os1/PAX6-AS1 was shown to bind to EIF3D, indicating a role in translation of specific mRNAs, as well as histones H3 and H4, suggesting a role in histone modifications. Important interspecies differences were found, with a stronger phenotype in humans. Only female Pax6os1 null mice fed a high-fat diet showed slightly enhanced glucose clearance. In contrast, silencing PAX6-AS1 in human islets enhanced glucose-stimulated insulin secretion and increased calcium dynamics, whereas overexpression of the lncRNA resulted in the opposite phenotype.
PXD056659	39813225	N-terminomics profiling of host proteins targeted by excretory-secretory proteases of the nematode Angiostrongylus vasorum identifies points of interaction with canine coagulation and complement cascade. 	N-terminomics profiling of host proteins targeted by excretory-secretory proteases of the nematode Angiostrongylus vasorum identifies points of interaction with canine coagulation and complement cascade	Dog, French Heartworm, Plasma, Serum, TAILS	The cardiopulmonary nematode Angiostrongylus vasorum can cause severe disease in dogs, including coagulopathies manifesting with bleeding. We analysed A. vasorum excretory/secretory protein (ESP)-treated dog plasma and serum by N-terminome analysis using Terminal Amine Isotopic Labelling of Substrates (TAILS) to identify cleaved host substrates. In plasma and serum samples 430 and 475 dog proteins were identified, respectively. A total of eight dog proteins were significantly cleaved at higher levels upon exposure to A. vasorum ESP: of these, three were coagulation factors (factor II, V and IX) and three were complement proteins (complement C3, C4-A and C5). Comparison with human motif sequence orthologues revealed known cleavage sites in coagulation factor IX and II (prothrombin). These and further identified cleavage sites suggest direct or indirect activation or proteolysis of complement and coagulation components through A. vasorum ESP, which contains several proteases. Further studies are needed to validate their substrate specificity.
PXD056617	39814365	IP-to-MS: An Unbiased Workflow for Antigen Profiling. 	IP-to-MS: an unbiased workflow for antigen profiling	autoimmune disease, immunoprecipitation, unbiased antigen identification	Immunoprecipitation is among the most widely utilized methods in biomedical research, with applications that include the identification of antibody targets and associated proteins. The path to identifying these targets is not straightforward, however, and often requires the use of chemical cross-linking and/or gel electrophoresis to separate targets from an overabundance of immunoglobulin protein. Such experiments are labor intensive and often yield long lists of candidate antibody targets. Here, we describe an unbiased immunoprecipitation-to-mass spectrometry (IP-to-MS) method that relies on a novel protein tag to separate low abundance immunoprecipitated proteins from overwhelmingly abundant immunoglobulins. We demonstrate that the IP-to-MS serotyping workflow is highly reproducible and can be used for the identification of novel, patient-specific antigen targets in multiple disease states. Furthermore, we show that IP-to-MS may outperform conventional methods of antibody detection, including enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, while also enabling patient stratification beyond what is possible with traditional approaches.
PXD051824	39814799	Cytotoxic mechanisms of pemetrexed and HDAC inhibition in non-small cell lung cancer cells involving ribonucleotides in DNA. 	Cytotoxic mechanisms of pemetrexed and HDAC inhibition in non-small cell lung cancer cells involving ribonucleotides in DNA	AP, BER, DHFR, GART, apyrimidinic, base excision repair, dUTPase DUT, deoxyuridine triphosphate nucleotide hydrolase, dihydrofolate reductase, double strand breaks, histone deacetylase, trifunctional purine biosynthetic protein adenosine	The cytotoxic mechanisms of thymidylate synthase inhibitors, such as the multitarget antifolate pemetrexed, are not yet fully understood. Emerging evidence indicates that combining pemetrexed with histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) may enhance therapeutic efficacy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). To explore this further, A549 NSCLC cells were treated with various combinations of pemetrexed and the HDACi MS275 (Entinostat), and subsequently assessed for cell viability, cell cycle changes, and genotoxic markers. Proteomic alterations were analyzed using label-free shotgun and targeted LC-MS/MS. MS275 enhanced the sensitivity of A549 cells to pemetrexed, but only when administered following prior treatment with pemetrexed. Both HeLa (p53 negative) and A549 (p53 positive) showed robust activation of gammaH2AX upon treatment with this combination. Importantly, CRISPR/Cas9 knockout of the uracil-DNA glycosylase UNG did not affect gammaH2AX activation or sensitivity to pemetrexed. Proteomic analysis revealed that MS275 altered the expression of known pemetrexed targets, as well as several proteins involved in pyrimidine metabolism and DNA repair, which could potentiate pemetrexed cytotoxicity. Contrary to the conventional model of antifolate toxicity, which implicates futile cycles of uracil incorporation and excision in DNA, we propose that ribonucleotide incorporation in nuclear and mitochondrial DNA significantly contributes to the cytotoxicity of antifolates like pemetrexed, and likely also of fluorinated pyrimidine analogs. HDAC inhibition apparently exacerbates cytotoxicity of these agents by inhibiting error-free repair of misincorporated ribonucleotides in DNA. The potential of HDACis to modulate pyrimidine metabolism and DNA damage responses offers novel strategies for improving NSCLC outcomes.
PXD058480	39815006	Elongator is a microtubule polymerase selective for polyglutamylated tubulin. 	Elongator is a microtubule polymerase selective for poly-glutamylated tubulin: ELP456 to Tubulin crosslinking	Tubulin Crosslinking ELP456	Elongator is a tRNA-modifying complex that regulates protein translation. Recently, a moonlighting function of Elongator has been identified in regulating the polarization of the microtubule cytoskeleton during asymmetric cell division. Elongator induces symmetry breaking of the anaphase midzone by selectively stabilizing microtubules on one side of the spindle, contributing to the downstream polarized segregation of cell-fate determinants, and therefore to cell fate determination. Here, we investigate how Elongator controls microtubule dynamics. Elongator binds both to the tip of microtubules and to free GTP-tubulin heterodimers using two different subcomplexes, Elp123 and Elp456, respectively. We show that these activities must be coupled for Elongator to decrease the tubulin critical concentration for microtubule elongation. As a consequence, Elongator increases the growth speed and decreases the catastrophe rate of microtubules. Surprisingly, the Elp456 subcomplex binds to tubulin tails and has strong selectivity towards polyglutamylated tubulin. Hence, microtubules assembled by Elongator become selectively enriched with polyglutamylated tubulin, as observed in vitro, in mouse and Drosophila cell lines, as well as in vivo in Drosophila Sensory Organ Precursor cells. Therefore, Elongator rewrites the tubulin code of growing microtubules, placing it at the core of cytoskeletal dynamics and polarization during asymmetric cell division.
PXD058232	39815046	The translational landscape of HIV-1 infected cells reveals key gene regulatory principles. 	The translational landscape of HIV-1 infected cells reveals novel gene regulatory principles	HIV-1, RNA sequencing, disome profiling, ribosome profiling	Human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) uses a number of strategies to modulate viral and host gene expression during its life cycle. To characterize the transcriptional and translational landscape of HIV-1 infected cells, we used a combination of ribosome profiling, disome sequencing and RNA sequencing. We show that HIV-1 messenger RNAs are efficiently translated at all stages of infection, despite evidence for a substantial decrease in the translational efficiency of host genes that are implicated in host cell translation. Our data identify upstream open reading frames in the HIV-1 5'-untranslated region as well as internal open reading frames in the Vif and Pol coding domains. We also observed ribosomal collisions in Gag-Pol upstream of the ribosome frameshift site that we attributed to an RNA structural fold using RNA structural probing and functional analysis. Antisense oligonucleotides designed to alter the base of this structure decreased frameshift efficiency. Overall, our data highlight the complexity of HIV-1 gene regulation and provide a key resource for decoding of host-pathogen interactions upon HIV-1 infection. Furthermore, we provide evidence for a RNA structural fold including the frameshift site that could serve as a target for antiviral therapy.
PXD021797	39816833	TUSK: a ubiquitin hydrolase complex modulating surface protein abundance in trypanosomes. 	Trypannosome brucei brucei 427 TbTPR86 pullout	TPR, Trypanosome, USP7, brucei, pulldown, pullout, skp1	Control of protein levels is vital to cellular homeostasis, for maintaining a steady state, to coordinate changes during differentiation and other roles. In African trypanosomes surface proteins contribute to immune evasion, drug sensitivity and environmental sensing. The trypanosome surface is dominated by the GPI-anchored variant surface glycoprotein, but additional GPI-anchored and trans-membrane domain proteins are present with known roles as nutrient receptors and signal transducers. The evolutionarily conserved deubiquitinase orthologs of Usp7 and Vdu1 in trypanosomes modulate abundance of many surface proteins, including the invariant surface glycoproteins, which have roles in immune evasion and drug sensitivity. Here we identify multiple trypanosome Skp1 paralogs and specifically a divergent paralog SkpZ. Affinity isolation and LCMSMS indicates that SkpZ forms a heterotrimeric complex with TbUsp7 and TbTpr86, a tetratricopeptide-repeat protein. Silencing SkpZ decreases TbUsp7 and TbTpr86 abundance, confirming a direct association. Further, SkpZ knockdown decreases the abundance of multiple trans-membrane domain (TMD) proteins but increases GPI-anchored surface protein levels. Hence, a heterotrimeric complex of TbTpr86, TbUsp7 and SkpZ (TUSK) regulates expression levels of a significant cohort of trypanosome surface proteins mediating coordination between TMD and GPI-anchored protein expression levels.
PXD047281	39818277	Phosphorylated-tau associates with HSV-1 chromatin and correlates with nuclear speckles decondensation in low-density host chromatin regions. 	Interplay between nuclear tau phosphorylation and HSV-1 infection.	Alzheimers, Herpes Simplex Virus, neurodegenerative diseases, tau	Abnormal tau phosphorylation is a key mechanism in neurodegenerative diseases. Evidence implicates infectious agents, such as Herpes Simplex Virus 1 (HSV-1), as co-factors in the onset or the progression of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. This has led to divergence in the field regarding the contribution of viruses in the etiology of neurodegenerative diseases. Research indicates that viruses may function as risk factors driving neurodegenerative disease rather than playing a causative role. Investigating HSV-1 in abnormal tau phosphorylation is important for understanding the role of infectious agents in neurodegeneration. We generated cellular models of HSV-1 acute, latent infection, and viral reactivation from latency in cortical brain organoids and investigated the interplay between tau phosphorylation and HSV-1 infection by employing human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived monolayer neuronal cultures and brain organoids. Acute infection with HSV-1 strains 17syn(+) and KOS caused nuclear accumulation of phosphorylated tau (p-tau) in neurons and neural precursor cells. Antivirals prevented nuclear accumulation of p-tau. Viral reactivation was accompanied by the nuclear translocation of p-tau. Chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis indicated an interaction of p-tau with the viral chromatin. A reduction in abundance of component of nuclear speckles and their loss of organized morphology in low host chromatin density regions was observed, with strain-specific differences. HSV-1 infection was followed by an increase in the abundance of BRSKs and TAOKs, kinases known to phosphorylate tau. These findings show interaction between phosphorylated tau and HSV-1 chromatin and demonstrate the ability of HSV-1 to activate mechanisms that are observed in Alzheimer's disease.
PXD044187	39818942	Phytophthora alni Infection Reinforces the Defense Reactions in Alnus glutinosa - Frankia Roots to the Detriment of Nodules. 	Proteomics analysis of Phytophthora alni infection in Frankia alni and Alnus glutinosa symbiotic nodules.	bacteria, infection, interactions, nodules, pathogen, plant, response, stress	Alnus glutinosa, able to establish symbiosis with mutualistic bacteria of the genus Frankia, is one of the main species in European riparian environments, where it performs numerous biological and socio-economic functions. However, riparian ecosystems face a growing threat from Phytophthora alni, a highly aggressive waterborne pathogen causing severe dieback in A. glutinosa. To date, the tripartite interaction between the host plant, the symbiont Frankia and the pathogen remains unexplored but is critical for understanding how pathogen-induced stress influences the nodule molecular machinery and so on the host-symbiont metabolism. In the present study, we aimed to explore for the first time how P. alni affects the overall molecular processes of Alnus glutinosa - Frankia nodules, with a special focus on unraveling the spatial expression of defense mechanisms within these tissues. We conducted a laboratory experiment based on P. alni infection of young A. glutinosa seedlings nodulated with Frankia alni ACN14a, non-infected or infected with the pathogen P. alni. Multi-omics analyses were carried out on nodules (N) and associated roots (AR) of the same plant in order to underline the impact on the nodule molecular processes (i.e. N/AR markers) when the host plant is infected compared to non-infected plants. Our results revealed that P. alni infection modified the molecular nodule processes and induced reprograming of defense-related markers by a shift in associated roots to the detriment of nodules. These findings suggest that A. glutinosa reinforces locally its immune responses in roots but moderates this activation in nodule to preserve its Frankia symbiont.
PXD034182	39819027	Proteomic Profiling Reveals Alterations in Metabolic and Cellular Pathways in Severe Obesity and Following Metabolic Bariatric Surgery. 	Normalization of adipose oxidative metabolism pathways after bariatric surgery	adipose tissue, bariatric surgery, obesity	In this study, we investigated the impact of bariatric surgery on the adipose proteome to better understand the metabolic and cellular mechanisms underlying weight loss following the procedure. A total of 46 patients with severe obesity were included, with samples collected both before and after bariatric surgery. Additionally, 15 healthy, non-obese individuals who did not undergo surgery served as controls and were studied once. We utilized quantitative liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry analysis to conduct a large-scale proteomic study on abdominal subcutaneous biopsies obtained from the study participants. Our proteomic profiling revealed that among the 2254 compared proteins, 46 were upregulated, and 34 were downregulated 6 months post-surgery compared to baseline (FDR < 0.01). We observed a downregulation of proteins associated with mitochondrial integrity, amino acid catabolism, and lipid metabolism in the patients with severe obesity compared to the controls. Bariatric surgery was associated with an upregulation in pathways related to mitochondrial function, protein synthesis, folding and trafficking, actin cytoskeleton regulation, and DNA binding and repair. These findings emphasize the significant changes in metabolic and cellular pathways following bariatric surgery, highlighting the potential mechanisms underlying the observed health improvements post-bariatric surgery. The data provided alongside this paper will serve as a valuable resource for the development of targeted therapeutic strategies for obesity and related metabolic complications.
PXD045901	39819313	Medwakh smoking induces alterations in salivary proteins and cytokine expression: a clinical exploratory proteomics investigation. 	Salivary Proteome Alterations in Medwakh Smokers Associated with Pathogenic Pathways: Implications for Youth Health	Medwakh, Saliva, Smoking, Youth	BACKGROUND: Medwakh smoking has radically expanded among youth in the Middle East and around the world. The rising popularity of medwakh/dokha usage is linked to the onset of several chronic illnesses including cardiovascular diseases and cancers. Medwakh smoking is reported to increase the risk of inflammation in the lower respiratory tract owing to oxidative burden. To date, there are no reported studies investigating the impact of medwakh smoking on salivary protein profile. The current study aims to elucidate alterations in the salivary proteome profile of medwakh smokers. METHODS: Saliva samples collected from 33 medwakh smokers and 30 non-smokers were subjected to proteomic analysis using UHPLC-ESI-QTOF-MS. Saliva samples were further subjected to validatory experiments involving analysis of inflammatory cytokine profile using LEGENDplex(TM) Human Essential Immune Response Panel. RESULTS: Statistical analysis revealed alterations in the abundance of 74 key proteins including immune mediators and inflammatory markers in medwakh smokers (Accession: PXD045901). Proteins involved in building oxidative stress, alterations in cell anchorage, and cell metabolic processes were enhanced in medwakh smokers. Salivary immune response evaluation further validated the proteome findings, revealing significantly higher levels of IL-1beta, IL-12p70, IL-23, IFN-gamma (Th1 cytokines), IL-6 (Th2 cytokine), and MCP-1 (chemokine) in medwakh smokers. In addition, a substantial increase in abundance of involucrin suggesting a plausible stratified squamous cell differentiation and increased cell lysis in the oral cavity of medwakh smokers akin to chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD). The protein-metabolite joint pathway analysis further showed significantly enriched differentially expressed proteins and metabolites of glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, pentose phosphate, fructose and mannose, nicotinate and nicotinamide, and glutathione metabolism pathways among medwakh smokers. CONCLUSIONS: The findings of the study provide valuable insights on potential perturbations in various key immune molecules, cytokines, and signaling pathways among medwakh smokers. Medwakh smokers displayed elevated inflammation, increased oxidative stress and defective antioxidant responses, dysregulated energy metabolism, and alterations in proteins related to cell adhesion, migration, differentiation, and proliferation. The findings of study underscore the urgent need for comprehensive public health interventions among youth by raising awareness, implementing effective smoking cessation programs, and promoting healthy lifestyle to safeguard the well-being of individuals and communities worldwide.
PXD051954	39819877	Anti-proteolytic regulation of KRAS by USP9X/NDRG3 in KRAS-driven cancer development. 	Anti-proteolytic regulation of KRAS by USP9X/NDRG3 in KRAS-driven cancer development	KRAS protein deubiquitination, NDRG3, Pancreatic cancer, USP9X	Cancers with activating mutations of KRAS show a high prevalence but remain intractable, requiring innovative strategies to overcome the poor targetability of KRAS. Here, we report that KRAS expression is post-translationally up-regulated through deubiquitination when the scaffolding function of NDRG3 (N-Myc downstream-regulated gene 3) promotes specific interaction between KRAS and a deubiquitinating enzyme, USP9X. In KRAS-mutant cancer cells KRAS protein expression, downstream signaling, and cell growth are highly dependent on NDRG3. In conditional Kras(G12D) knock-in mouse models of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma, Ndrg3 depletion abolishes Kras protein expression and suppresses intraepithelial neoplasia formation in pancreas. Mechanistically, KRAS protein binds to the C-terminal serine/threonine-rich region of NDRG3, subsequently going through deubiquitination by USP9X recruited to the complex. This interaction can be disrupted in a dominant-negative manner by a C-terminal NDRG3 fragment that binds KRAS but is defective in USP9X binding, highly suppressing KRAS protein expression and KRAS-driven cell growth. In summary, KRAS-driven cancer development critically depends on the deubiquitination of KRAS protein mediated by USP9X/NDRG3, and KRAS-addicted cancers could be effectively targeted by inhibiting the KRAS-NDRG3 interaction.
PXD041739	39820331	Hypoxia-triggered ERRalpha acetylation enhanced its oncogenic role and promoted progression of renal cell carcinoma by coordinating autophagosome-lysosome fusion. 	Label free quantitative proteomics analysis based on LC-MS in Caki-1 to reveal the pathways associated with ERRalpha in ccRCC	Clear cell renal carcinoma cell, ERRalpha, LC-MS, kidney	Estrogen-related receptor alpha (ERRalpha) is dysregulated in many types of cancer and exhibits oncogenic activity by promoting tumorigenesis and metastasis of cancer cells. However, its defined role in renal cell carcinoma (RCC) has not been fully elucidated. To reveal the biological function of ERRalpha and determine the underlying regulatory mechanism in RCC, the quantitative proteomics analysis and mechanism investigation were conducted. The results demonstrated that ERRalpha promoted the proliferation and tumorigenesis of RCC cells by maintaining lysosome-dependent autophagy flux. ERRalpha inhibition impaired the transcriptional expression of LAMP2 and VAMP8 and blocked the fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes, causing the impairment of the autophagy-lysosome pathway and tumor repression in RCC. Moreover, VHL mutant-induced hyperactive hypoxia signaling in RCC triggered p300/CBP-mediated acetylation at the DNA-binding domain of ERRalpha, and this acetylation promoted its affinity toward targeting DNA and Parkin-mediated ubiquitination and proteasome-dependent degradation. This regulatory model enhanced ERRalpha transactivation on the expression of LAMP2 and VAMP8, which then maintained autophagy flux and RCC progression. Pharmaceutical inhibition on ERRalpha acetylation-mediated autophagy-lysosome pathway led to growth repression and sunitinib sensitivity of RCC cells. Taken together, this study uncovered a novel regulatory mechanism of acetylation contributing to the transcriptional performance and the oncogenic role of ERRalpha in RCC progression by modulating the autophagy-lysosome pathway. These findings might provide a novel approach for the clinical diagnosis and resolution of sunitinib resistance of RCC.
PXD054944	39820750	Enhanced sensitivity and scalability with a Chip-Tip workflow enables deep single-cell proteomics. 	Enhanced sensitivity and scalability with a Chip-Tip workflow enables deep single-cell proteomics	Chip-Tip, High sensitivity, Single cell proteomics	Single-cell proteomics (SCP) promises to revolutionize biomedicine by providing an unparalleled view of the proteome in individual cells. Here, we present a high-sensitivity SCP workflow named Chip-Tip, identifying >5,000 proteins in individual HeLa cells. It also facilitated direct detection of post-translational modifications in single cells, making the need for specific post-translational modification-enrichment unnecessary. Our study demonstrates the feasibility of processing up to 120 label-free SCP samples per day. An optimized tissue dissociation buffer enabled effective single-cell disaggregation of drug-treated cancer cell spheroids, refining overall SCP analysis. Analyzing nondirected human-induced pluripotent stem cell differentiation, we consistently quantified stem cell markers OCT4 and SOX2 in human-induced pluripotent stem cells and lineage markers such as GATA4 (endoderm), HAND1 (mesoderm) and MAP2 (ectoderm) in different embryoid body cells. Our workflow sets a benchmark in SCP for sensitivity and throughput, with broad applications in basic biology and biomedicine for identification of cell type-specific markers and therapeutic targets.
PXD064564	39820751	Challenging the Astral mass analyzer to quantify up to 5,300 proteins per single cell at unseen accuracy to uncover cellular heterogeneity. 	Challenging the Astral mass analyzer - up to 5300 proteins per single-cell at unseen quantitative accuracy to study cellular heterogeneity.	A549, Astral, Aurora column, liquid chromatography, nave human stem cells, single-cell proteomics, trophectoderm-like cells	Despite significant advancements in sample preparation, instrumentation and data analysis, single-cell proteomics is currently limited by proteomic depth and quantitative performance. Here we demonstrate highly improved depth of proteome coverage as well as accuracy and precision for quantification of ultra-low input amounts. Using a tailored library, we identify up to 7,400 protein groups from as little as 250 pg of HeLa cell peptides at a throughput of 50 samples per day. Using a two-proteome mix, we check for optimal parameters of quantification and show that fold change differences of 2 can still be successfully determined at single-cell-level inputs. Eventually, we apply our workflow to A549 cells, yielding a proteome coverage ranging from 1,801 to a maximum of >5,300 protein groups from a single cell depending on cell size and search strategy used, which allows for the study of dependencies between cell size and cell cycle phase. Additionally, our workflow enables us to distinguish between in vitro analogs of two human blastocyst lineages: naive human pluripotent stem cells (epiblast) and trophectoderm-like cells. Our data harmoniously align with transcriptomic data, indicating that single-cell proteomics possesses the capability to identify biologically relevant differences within the blastocyst.
PXD059523	39821325	Protective role of triiodothyronine in sepsis-induced cardiomyopathy through phospholamban downregulation. 	Tandem mass tagging (TMT) proteomics analysis of myocardium  from 3 septic mice and 3  normal controls	inflamation, myocardial injury, sepsis	Sepsis is often a cause of mortality in patients admitted to the intensive care unit. Notably, the heart is the organ most susceptible to the impact of sepsis and this condition is referred to as sepsis-induced cardiomyopathy (SIC). Low triiodothyronine (T3) syndrome frequently occurs in patients with sepsis, and the heart is one of the most important target organs for the action of T3. Phospholamban (PLN) is a key protein associated with Ca(2+)-pump-mediated cardiac diastolic function in the myocardium of mice with SIC, and PLN is negatively regulated by T3. The present study aimed to explore whether T3 can protect cardiac function during sepsis and to investigate the specific molecular mechanism underlying the regulation of PLN by T3. C57BL/6J mice and H9C2 cells were used to establish in vivo and in vitro models, respectively. Myocardial damage was detected via pathological tissue sections, a Cell Counting Kit-8 assay, an apoptosis assay and crystal violet staining. Intracellular calcium levels and reactive oxygen species were detected by Fluo-4AM and DHE fluorescence. The protein and mRNA expression levels of JNK and c-Jun were measured by western blotting and reverse transcription-quantitative PCR to investigate the molecular mechanisms involved. Subsequently, 100 clinical patients were recruited to verify the clinical application value of PLN in SIC. The results revealed a significant negative correlation between PLN and T3 in the animal disease model. Furthermore, the expression levels of genes and proteins in the JNK/c-Jun signaling pathway and PLN expression levels were decreased, whereas the expression levels of sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase were increased after T3 treatment. These results indicated that T3 alleviated myocardial injury in SIC by inhibiting PLN expression and its phosphorylation, which may be related to the JNK/c-Jun signaling pathway. Accordingly, PLN may have clinical diagnostic value in patients with SIC.
PXD056767	39821691	circ_0004662 contributes to colorectal cancer progression by interacting with hnRNPM. 	Circ_0004662 contributes to colorectal cancer progression	LC-MS, MS-2 tag, circ_0004662	Circular (circ)RNAs participate in colorectal cancer (CRC) occurrence and progression. However, the role of hsa_circ_0004662 (circ_0004662) in CRC remains unknown. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR noted high expression of circ_0004662 in CRC compared with normal colorectal epithelial cells. circ_0004662 knockdown inhibited migration of CRC cells in vitro and in vivo; would healing and Transwell assays showed that circ_0004662 overexpression contributed to CRC migration. Nuclear cytoplasmic analysis and fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed localization of circ_0004662 in the nucleus and cytoplasm. CircRNADB databases predicted that circ_0004662 exhibited translational potential and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) of circ_0004662 pull-down products suggested that circ_0004662 bound to multiple ribosomal subunits. However, peptide products of 149aa translated by circ_0004662, with a molecular weight of ~17 kDa were not detected. Nevertheless, LC-MS analysis indicated that circ_0004662 bound multiple proteins. Immunoprecipitation of RNA-binding proteins revealed that circ_0004662 bound to heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein M (hnRNPM) and that hnRNPM interference decreased circ_0004662 expression, thereby affecting CRC progression. In summary, circ_0004662 was significantly upregulated in CRC. As a non-coding RNA, it may promote CRC progression by binding to hnRNPM, which may serve as a potential target for treating CRC.
PXD060186	39822051	Seven up regulates reproductive diapause initiation via juvenile hormone biosynthesis in the cabbage beetle Colaphellus bowringi. 	Mass spectrometry identification of immunoprecipitated head samples of Colaphellus bowringi	Anti-JHAMT1, Colaphellus bowringi, immunoprecipitation	Reproductive diapause is an insect survival strategy in which reproduction temporarily halts in response to adverse environmental changes. This process is characterized by arrested ovarian development and lipid accumulation in females. A reduction in juvenile hormone (JH) biosynthesis is known to initiate reproductive diapause, but its regulatory mechanism remains unclear. Seven up (Svp), a transcription factor from the nuclear receptor family, plays a crucial role in various developmental processes in insects. In this study, using the cabbage beetle Colaphellus bowringi as a model, we observed higher expression of Svp in the heads of female adults under reproductive photoperiodic conditions (short-day [SD]) compared to diapause conditions (long-day [LD]). RNA interference-mediated knockdown of Svp in SD females induced typical diapause phenotypes, including ovarian arrest and lipid accumulation. The application of methoprene (ME), a JH receptor agonist, reversed these diapause phenotypes and restored reproduction, indicating that Svp's regulation of reproductive diapause is dependent on JH signaling. Additionally, Svp knockdown led to the downregulation of JH pathway genes and a reduction in JH titers. Further evidence suggested that Svp regulates the expression of JHAMT1, a critical gene in JH biosynthesis, which determines diapause entry in C. bowringi. These findings suggest that diapause-inducing photoperiods suppress Svp expression, blocking JH production and triggering diapause. This work reveals a critical transcription factor that regulates reproductive diapause initiation through modulating JH production, providing a potential target for controlling pests capable of entering reproductive diapause.
PXD052061	39822152	Oxidised Apolipoprotein Peptidome Characterises Metabolic Dysfunction-Associated Steatotic Liver Disease. 	Oxidised apolipoprotein peptidome characterise metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease.Oxidised apolipoprotein peptidome characterise metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease.	peptidomics proteomics MASLD	BACKGROUND: Metabolic Dysfunction-Associated Steatotic Liver Disease (MASLD) encompasses a spectrum of histological conditions ranging from simple steatosis to fibrosing steatohepatitis, and is a risk factor for cardiovascular diseases (CVD). While oxidised apolipoproteins A and B have been linked to obesity and CVD, the association between other oxidised apolipoproteins and MASLD is yet to be established. To fill this gap, we characterised the circulating serum peptidome of patients with MASLD. METHODS: We studied the serum of 87 biopsy-confirmed MASLD patients and 20 age- and sex-matched control (CTRL) subjects. We first employed an untargeted LC-MS/MS peptidomics approach (9 CTRL, 32 MASLD) to identify key hits differentially modulated, and subsequently validated the most relevant findings through targeted peptidomics in an enlarged study population (87 MASLD and 20 CTRL). RESULTS: Untargeted serum peptidomics identified several oxidised apolipoprotein peptide fragments, including ApoE and ApoC-III, significantly upregulated in MASLD compared to CTRL. Specifically focusing on the oxidative status of intact ApoC-III, studied through its major glycoforms (ApoC-III0, ApoC-IIIi and ApoC-IIIii), we observed a marked reduction in non-oxidised forms of these circulating peptides alongside substantially increased levels of their oxidised proteoforms in MASLD versus controls (but not within the disease stages). Oxidised ApoE and ApoC-III peptide fragments were also significantly correlated with obesity, insulin resistance, dyslipidaemia and transaminases, suggesting a potential link between circulating apolipoprotein oxidation and systemic/hepatic metabolic dysfunction. CONCLUSION: Our data reveals a previously unreported oxidised apolipoprotein profile associated with MASLD. The functional and clinical implications of these findings warrant further mechanistic investigation.
PXD056805	39822760	H3K14la drives endothelial dysfunction in sepsis-induced ARDS by promoting SLC40A1/transferrin-mediated ferroptosis. 	H3K14la drives endothelial dysfunction in sepsis-induced ARDS via promoting SLC40A1/TFR-mediated ferroptosis	endothelial dysfunction, ferroptosis, lactylation, lung injury, sepsis	Pulmonary endothelial cell (EC) activation is a key factor in acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). In sepsis, increased glycolysis leads to lactate buildup, which induces lysine lactylation (Kla) on histones and other proteins. However, the role of protein lactylation in EC dysfunction during sepsis-induced ARDS remains unclear. Integrative lactylome and proteome analyses were performed to identify the global lactylome profile in the lung tissues of septic mice. Cut&Tag analysis was used to identify the transcriptional targets of histone H3 lysine 14 lactylation (H3K14la) in ECs. Septic mice presented elevated levels of lactate and H3K14la in lung tissues, particularly in pulmonary ECs. Suppressing glycolysis reduced both H3K14la and EC activation, suggesting a link between glycolysis and lactylation. Moreover, H3K14la was enriched at promoter regions of ferroptosis-related genes such as transferrin receptor (TFRC) and solute carrier family 40 member 1 (SLC40A1), which contributed to EC activation and lung injury under septic conditions. For the first time, we reported the role of lactate-dependent H3K14 lactylation in regulating EC ferroptosis to promote vascular dysfunction during sepsis-induced lung injury. Our findings suggest that manipulation of the glycolysis/H3K14la/ferroptosis axis may provide novel therapeutic approaches for sepsis-associated ARDS.
PXD043768	39823288	Biomarkers of RV Dysfunction in HFrEF Identified by Direct Tissue Proteomics: Extracellular Proteins Fibromodulin and Fibulin-5. 	Proteomic analysis of right-ventricular dysfunction (RVD) in patients with advanced chronic heart failure.	Biomarkers, Chronic heart failure, LFQ, RVD, Right ventricular dysfunction, Triton X-100, myocardium	BACKGROUND: Right ventricular dysfunction (RVD) is common in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, and it is associated with poor prognosis. However, no biomarker reflecting RVD is available for routine clinical use. METHODS: Proteomic analysis of myocardium from the left ventricle and right ventricle (RV) of patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction with (n=10) and without RVD (n=10) who underwent heart transplantation was performed. Concentrations of 2 ECM (extracellular matrix) proteins with the highest myocardial upregulation in RVD, FMOD (fibromodulin) and FBLN5 (fibulin-5), were assayed in the blood and tested in a separate cohort of patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction (n=232) to test for the association of the 2 proteins with RV function and long-term outcomes. RESULTS: Multivariable linear regression revealed that plasma concentrations of both FMOD and FBLN5 were significantly associated with RV function regardless of the RV function assessment method. No association of FMOD or FBLN5 with left ventricular dysfunction, cardiac index, body mass index, diabetes status, or kidney function was found. Plasma levels of FMOD and FBLN5 were significantly associated with patient outcomes (P=0.005; P=0.004). Area under the curve analysis showed that the addition of FBLN5 or FMOD to RV function assessment had a significantly higher area under the curve after 4 years of follow-up (0.653 and 0.631, respectively) compared with RV function alone (0.570; P<0.05 for both). Similarly, the combination of MAGGIC (Meta-Analysis Global Group in Chronic Heart Failure) score, FBLN5, and FMOD had a significantly larger area under the curve (0.669) than the combination of MAGGIC score+RVD grade (0.572; P=0.02). The Kaplan-Meier analysis demonstrated that patients with the elevation of both FMOD and FBLN5 (ie, FMOD >64 ng/mL and FMOD >27 ng/mL) had a worse prognosis than those with the elevation of either FBLN5 or FMOD (P=0.03) demonstrating the additive prognostic value of both proteins. CONCLUSIONS: Our study proposes that circulating levels of FMOD and FBLN5 may serve as new biomarkers of RVD in patients with heart failure with reduced ejection fraction.
PXD048810	39823391	Evidence for Endogenous Collagen in Edmontosaurus Fossil Bone. 	FTIR, XPol, and LC-MS confirm endogenous collagen in Edmontosaurus fossil bone C4PR_LIV	collagen, dinosaur, fossil	Reports of proteins in fossilized bones have been a subject of controversy in the scientific literature because it is assumed that fossilization results in the destruction of all organic components. In this paper, a novel combination of analytical techniques is used to address this question for an exceptionally well-preserved Edmontosaurus sacrum excavated from the Upper Cretaceous strata of the South Dakota Hell Creek Formation. Cross-polarized light microscopy (XPol) shows birefringence consistent with collagen presence. Tandem LC-MS unambiguously identified, and for the first time quantified, hydroxyproline, a unique collagen-indicator amino acid, in acid-digested samples from the Edmontosaurus. LC-MS/MS bottom-up proteomics shows identical collagen peptide sequences previously identified and reported for another hadrosaur and a T. rex sample.
PXD053048	39824970	A multi-tissue longitudinal proteomics study to evaluate the suitability of post-mortem samples for pathophysiological research. 	A multi-tissue longitudinal proteomics study to evaluate the suitability of post-mortem samples for pathophysiological research	DIA, cadaver, post-mortem	Recent developments in mass spectrometry-based proteomics have established it as a robust tool for system-wide analyses essential for pathophysiological research. While post-mortem samples are a critical source for these studies, our understanding of how body decomposition influences the proteome remains limited. Here, we have revisited published data and conducted a clinically relevant time-course experiment in mice, revealing organ-specific proteome regulation after death, with only a fraction of these changes linked to protein autolysis. The liver and spleen exhibit significant proteomic alterations within hours post-mortem, whereas the heart displays only modest changes. Additionally, subcellular compartmentalization leads to an unexpected surge in proteome alterations at the earliest post-mortem interval (PMI). Additionally, we have conducted a comprehensive analysis of semi-tryptic peptides, revealing distinct consensus motifs for different organs, indicating organ-specific post-mortem protease activity. In conclusion, our findings emphasize the critical importance of considering PMI effects when designing proteomics studies, as these effects may significantly overshadow the impacts of diseases. Preferably, the samples should be taken in the operation room, especially for studies including subcellular compartmentalization or trans-organ comparison. In single-organ studies, the planning should involve careful control of PMI.
PXD051974	39825080	Evolution of the umbilical cord blood proteome across gestational development. 	Evolution of the Umbilical Cord Blood Proteome Across  Gestational Development	biomarker development, cord blood, immune development, neonatal immunology, prematurity	Neonatal health is dependent on early risk stratification, diagnosis, and timely management of potentially devastating conditions, particularly in the setting of prematurity. Many of these conditions are poorly predicted in real-time by clinical data and current diagnostics. Umbilical cord blood may represent a novel source of molecular signatures that provides a window into the state of the fetus at birth. In this study, we comprehensively characterized the cord blood proteome of infants born between 25 to 42 weeks using untargeted mass spectrometry and functional enrichment analysis. We determined that the cord blood proteome at birth varies significantly across gestational development. Proteins that function in structural development and growth (e.g., extracellular matrix organization, lipid particle remodeling, and blood vessel development) are more abundant earlier in gestation. In later gestations, proteins with increased abundance are in immune response and inflammatory pathways, including complements and calcium-binding proteins. These data contribute to the knowledge of the physiologic state of neonates across gestational age, which is crucial to understand as we strive to best support postnatal development in preterm infants, determine mechanisms of pathology causing adverse health outcomes, and develop cord blood biomarkers to help tailor our diagnosis and therapeutics for critical neonatal conditions.
PXD059518	39826549	Structural insights into the role of the proline rich region in tau function. 	Structural Insights into the Role of the Proline Rich Region in Tau Function	Alzheimers Disease, Tau, aggregation, microtubules, phosphorylation, post-translational modifications, tubulin	Tau plays an important role in modulating axonal microtubules in neurons, while intracellular tau aggregates are found in many neurodegenerative disorders. Tubulin binding sites are found in tau's proline-rich region (PRR), microtubule binding repeats (MTBRs), and pseudo-repeat (R'). Tau phosphorylation sites, which cluster with high frequency within the PRR, regulate tubulin interactions and correlates with disease. Here, we use fluorescence correlation spectroscopy and structural mass spectrometry techniques to characterize the impact of phosphomimic mutations in the PRR on tau function. We find that phosphomimics cumulatively diminish tubulin dimer binding and slow microtubule polymerization. Additionally, we map two ~15 residue regions of the PRR as primary tubulin dimer binding sites and propose a model in which PRR enhances lateral interactions between tubulin dimers, complementing the longitudinal interactions observed for MTBR. Our study provides insight into the previously overlooked relevance of tau's PRR in functional interactions with tubulin dimers.
PXD053305	39826692	Profiling Tel1 Signaling Reveals a Non-Canonical Motif Targeting DNA Repair and Telomere Control Machineries. 	The Tel1 Phosphoproteomic Network	Tel1 Phosphoproteomics Phosphorylation DNA damage signaling network genome maintenance	The stability of the genome relies on Phosphatidyl Inositol 3-Kinase-related Kinases (PIKKs) that sense DNA damage and trigger elaborate downstream signaling responses. In S. cerevisiae, the Tel1 kinase (ortholog of human ATM) is activated at DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) and short telomeres. Despite the well-established roles of Tel1 in the control of telomere maintenance, suppression of chromosomal rearrangements, activation of cell cycle checkpoints, and repair of DSBs, the substrates through which Tel1 controls these processes remain incompletely understood. Here we performed an in depth phosphoproteomic screen for Tel1-dependent phosphorylation events. To achieve maximal coverage of the phosphoproteome, we developed a scaled-up approach that accommodates large amounts of protein extracts and chromatographic fractions. Compared to previous reports, we expanded the number of detected Tel1-dependent phosphorylation events by over 10-fold. Surprisingly, in addition to the identification of phosphorylation sites featuring the canonical motif for Tel1 phosphorylation (S/T-Q), the results revealed a novel motif (D/E-S/T) highly prevalent and enriched in the set of Tel1-dependent events. This motif is unique to Tel1 signaling and not shared with the Mec1 kinase, providing clues to how Tel1 plays specialized roles in DNA repair and telomere length control. Overall, these findings define a Tel1-signaling network targeting numerous proteins involved in DNA repair, chromatin regulation, and telomere maintenance that represents a framework for dissecting the molecular mechanisms of Tel1 action.
PXD058749	39826875	Site-Specific Competitive Kinase Inhibitor Target Profiling Using Phosphonate Affinity Tags. 	Site-Specific Competitive Kinase Inhibitor Target Profiling Using Phosphonate Affinity Tags	Activity-based protein profiling, Chemical proteomics, Ephrin receptor inhibitor, NVP-BHG712, Protein kinase inhibitor profiling, Site-specific	Protein kinases are prime targets for drug development due to their involvement in various cancers. However, selective inhibition of kinases, while avoiding off-target effects remains a significant challenge for the development of protein kinase inhibitors. Activity-based protein profiling (ABPP), in combination with pan-kinase activity-based probes (ABPs) and mass spectrometry-based proteomics, enables the identification of kinase drug targets. Here, we extend existing ABPP strategies for kinase profiling with a site-specific analysis, allowing for protein kinase inhibitor target engagement profiling with amino acid specificity. The site-specific approach involves highly efficient enrichment of ABP-labeled peptides, resulting in a less complex peptide matrix, straightforward data analysis, and the screening of over ~100 kinase active sites in a single LC-MS analysis. The complementary use of both trypsin and pepsin in parallel to generate the ABP-labeled peptides considerably expanded the coverage of kinases and pinpoint the exact binding sites. Using the site-specific strategy to examine the on- and off-targets of the Ephrin receptor (Eph) B4 inhibitor NVP-BHG712 showed binding to EphA2 with an IC50 of 17 nM and EphB4 with an IC50 of 20 nM. Next to the known targets, EphA2 and EphB4, NVP-BHG712 bound to the discoidin domain-containing receptor 1 (DDR1) with an IC50 of 2.1 nM, suggesting that a DDR1-targeting regio-isomer of NVP-BHG712 was used. The promiscuity of XO44 toward ATP-binding pockets on non-kinase proteins facilitated the screening of additional off-target sites, revealing inosine-5'-monophosphate dehydrogenase 2 (IMPDH2) as a putative off-target. Expanding the search to other amino acids revealed that XO44, in addition to 745 lysines, also covalently linked 715 tyrosines, which significantly expands the competitive ABPP search space and highlights the added value of the site-specific method. Therefore, the presented approach, which can be fully automated with liquid handling platforms, provides a straightforward, valuable new approach for competitive site-specific kinase inhibitor target profiling.
PXD051929	39827240	Structural basis for the interaction between the Drosophila RTK Sevenless (dROS1) and the GPCR BOSS. 	Structural basis for the interaction between Drosophila ROS1 and the GPCR BOSS	BOSS, GPCR, HDX-MS, ROS1, weak protein-protein interaction	Sevenless, the Drosophila homologue of ROS1 (University of Rochester Sarcoma) (herein, dROS1) is a receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) essential for the differentiation of Drosophila R7 photoreceptor cells. Activation of dROS1 is mediated by binding to the extracellular region (ECR) of the GPCR (G protein coupled receptor) BOSS (Bride Of Sevenless) on adjacent cells. Activation of dROS1 by BOSS leads to subsequent downstream signaling pathways including SOS (Son of Sevenless). However, the physical basis for how dROS1 interacts with BOSS has long remained unknown. Here we provide a cryo-EM structure of dROS1's extracellular region, which mediates ligand binding. We show that the extracellular region of dROS1 adopts a folded-over conformation stabilized by an N-terminal domain comprised of two disulfide stapled helical hairpins. We further narrowed down the interacting binding epitopes on both dROS1 and BOSS using hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS). This includes beta-strands in dROS1's third Fibronectin type III (FNIII) domain and a C-terminal peptide in BOSS' ECR. Our mutagenesis studies, coupled with AlphaFold complex predictions, support a binding interaction mediated by a hydrophobic interaction and beta-strand augmentation between these regions. Our findings provide a fundamental understanding of the regulatory function of dROS1 and further provide mechanistic insight into the human ortholog and oncogene ROS1.
PXD053944	39827269	Numerous rRNA molecules form the apicomplexan mitoribosome via repurposed protein and RNA elements. 	Immunoprecipitation of mitochondrial ribosome complex of Toxoplasma gondii	Mitoribosome, Toxoplasma gondii	Mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) are essential, and their function of synthesising mitochondrial proteins is universal. The core of almost all mitoribosomes is formed from a small number of long and self-folding rRNA molecules. In contrast, the mitoribosome of the apicomplexan parasite Toxoplasma gondii assembles from over 50 extremely short rRNA molecules. Here, we use cryo-EM to discover the features that enable this unusual mitoribosome to perform its function. We reveal that poly-A tails added to rRNA molecules are integrated into the ribosome, and we demonstrate their essentiality for mitoribosome formation and for parasite survival. This is a distinct function for poly-A tails, which are otherwise known primarily as stabilisers of messenger RNAs. Furthermore, while ribosomes typically consist of unique rRNA sequences, here nine sequences are used twice, each copy integrated in a different mitoribosome domain, revealing one of the mechanisms enabling the extreme mitochondrial genome reduction characteristic to Apicomplexa and to a large group of related microbial eukaryotes. Finally, several transcription factor-like proteins are repurposed to compensate for reduced or lost critical ribosomal domains, including members of the ApiAP2 family thus far considered to be DNA-binding transcription factors.
PXD054342	39827296	Proteomic analysis of spinal dorsal horn in prior exercise protection against neuropathic pain. 	Proteomic Analysis of Spinal Dorsal Horn in Prior-Exercise Protection against Neuropathic Pain	neuropathic pain, prehabilitation, prior exercise	Neuropathic pain (NP) is a complex and prevalent chronic pain condition that affects millions of individuals worldwide. Previous studies have shown that prior exercise protects against NP caused by nerve injury. However, the underlying mechanisms of this protective effect remain to be uncovered. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to investigate how prior exercise affects protein expression in NP model rats and thus gain comprehensive insights into the molecular mechanisms involved. To achieve this objective, 6-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly assigned into three groups, named as chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve, CCI with prior 6-week swimming training (CCI_Ex), and sham operated (Sham). The CCI_Ex group underwent 6 weeks of swimming training before CCI surgery, while the CCI and sham groups had no intervention. Mechanical withdrawal threshold (MWT) and thermal withdrawal latency (TWL) were used as the main observation indicators to evaluate the behavioral changes associated with pain. Tissues from the spinal dorsal horn of the rats in the three groups were collected at 4 weeks after operation. LC-MS/MS proteomic analysis based on the label-free approach was used to detect protein profiles, and volcano plots, Venn diagrams, and clustering heatmaps were used to identify differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Gene Ontology (GO) annotations, the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathways, and protein-protein interaction networks were employed to explore the biological importance of DEPs. At 14, 21, and 28 days following CCI, CCI rats with prior exercise showed a significant increase in the MWT and TWL of the injured lateral hind paw compared with those without exercise. A total of 122 proteins with significant changes in abundance were detected after CCI surgery, and 55 proteins were detected in the comparison between the CCI_Ex and CCI groups. GO and KEGG enrichment analysis revealed that oxygen transport capacity and the complement and coagulation cascades may be the critical mechanism by which prior exercise protects against NP. Serpina1, DHX9, and Alb are the key proteins in this process and warrant further attention, as confirmed by the results of Western blot analysis. In conclusion, this study provides new evidence that active physical activity can accelerate the relief of hyperalgesia after NP. Proteomic analyses revealed the potential target proteins and pathways for this process, offering valuable data resources and new insights into the pathogenesis and therapeutic targets of NP.
PXD057730	39827695	Integrating proteomics and metabolomics to elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of pimpled egg production in chickens: Multi-omics analysis of the mechanism of pimpled egg formation. 	Proteomic Data of Uterine Tissues from 6 Chickens	Uterine, chicken, pimpled eggs	Eggshells not only protect the contents of the egg from external damage but are also a key factor influencing consumer choice, second only to price. In the later stages of egg production, the incidence of pimpled eggs significantly increases, severely affecting the hatchability and food safety of the eggs. This study compares the differences in the uterine proteomes and metabolomes of hens producing pimpled eggs and those producing normal eggs, aiming to identify the proteins and metabolites that may play a crucial role in the formation of pimpled eggs. A total of 242 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in uterine tissue, of which 116 were upregulated and 126 were downregulated. Enrichment analysis revealed that the DEPs were enriched in pathways related to ion transport, energy metabolism, and immune responses. The study found that in the normal eggs (NE) group, HCO3- was predominantly transported via SLC4A1, although other transport pathways may also play a role. In contrast, in the pimpled eggs (PE) group, bicarbonate ions (HCO3-) was primarily transported through SLC4A4. Additionally, a total of 44 differentially metabolites (DMs) were identified in the uterus, with 5'-Adenylic acid (ATP) being significantly downregulated in the PE group. The ions and matrix proteins required for eggshell formation are transported from uterine cells to the uterine fluid against a concentration gradient, a process that consumes a substantial amount of energy. The decrease in ATP concentration in the PE group may be a significant factor influencing the formation of pimpled eggs. Subsequently, we found that the DEPs and DMs were jointly enriched in several signaling pathways, including the FoxO signaling pathway related to energy metabolism, nicotinate and nicotinamide metabolism, and tryptophan metabolism associated with immune response. Notably, the DMs involved in these signaling pathways were all downregulated in the PE group. Our research findings indicate that SLC4A1, SLC4A2, and ATP2B4 (DEPs), along with 5'-adenylic acid and trigonelline (DMs), influence the formation of eggshells through mechanisms related to energy metabolism, ion transport, and immune response. These DEPs and DMs may serve as potential biomarkers for the genetic improvement of eggshell quality.
PXD056698	39829812	The RING Finger E3 Ligase RNF25 Protects DNA Replication Forks Independently of its Canonical Roles in Ubiquitin Signaling. 	The E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF25 protects stalled DNA replication forks	Homo sapiens, IP-MS, cell culture	The DNA damage response (DDR) mechanisms that allow cells to tolerate DNA replication stress are critically important for genome stability and cell viability. Using an unbiased genetic screen we identify a role for the RING finger E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF25 in promoting DNA replication stress tolerance. In response to DNA replication stress, RNF25-deficient cells generate aberrantly high levels of single-stranded DNA (ssDNA), accumulate in S-phase and show reduced mitotic entry. Using single-molecule DNA fiber analysis, we show that RNF25 protects reversed DNA replication forks generated by the fork remodeler HLTF from nucleolytic degradation by MRE11 and CtIP. Mechanistically, RNF25 interacts with the replication fork protection factor REV7 and recruits REV7 to nascent DNA after replication stress. The role of RNF25 in protecting replication forks is fully separable from its canonical functions in ubiquitin conjugation. This work reveals the RNF25-REV7 signaling axis as an important protective mechanism in cells experiencing replication stress.
PXD048838	39833154	Positively charged specificity site in cyclin B1 is essential for mitotic fidelity. 	Positively charged specificity site in cyclin B1 is essential for mitotic fidelity	APC/C, CDK1, Ube2S, cyclin B, mitosis, phosphate-binding pocket, spindle	Phosphorylation of substrates by cyclin-dependent kinases (CDKs) is the driving force of cell cycle progression. Several CDK-activating cyclins are involved, yet how they contribute to substrate specificity is still poorly understood. Here, we discover that a positively charged pocket in cyclin B1, which is exclusively conserved within B-type cyclins and binds phosphorylated serine- or threonine-residues, is essential for correct execution of mitosis. HeLa cells expressing pocket mutant cyclin B1 are strongly delayed in anaphase onset due to multiple defects in mitotic spindle function and timely activation of the E3 ligase APC/C. Pocket integrity is essential for APC/C phosphorylation particularly at non-consensus CDK1 sites and full in vitro ubiquitylation activity. Our results support a model in which cyclin B1's pocket facilitates sequential substrate phosphorylations involving initial priming events that assist subsequent pocket-dependent phosphorylations even at non-consensus CDK1 motifs.
PXD058199	39833175	Construction and iterative redesign of synXVI a 903 kb synthetic Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome. 	Construction, debugging and iterative redesign of synXVI, a 903-kb synthetic chromosome of Saccharomyces cerevisiae	SCRaMbLE, synthetic genome, yeast 2.0	The Sc2.0 global consortium to design and construct a synthetic genome based on the Saccharomyces cerevisiae genome commenced in 2006, comprising 16 synthetic chromosomes and a new-to-nature tRNA neochromosome. In this paper we describe assembly and debugging of the 902,994-bp synthetic Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome synXVI of the Sc2.0 project. Application of the CRISPR D-BUGS protocol identified defective loci, which were modified to improve sporulation and recover wild-type like growth when grown on glycerol as a sole carbon source when grown at 37(o)C. LoxPsym sites inserted downstream of dubious open reading frames impacted the 5' UTR of genes required for optimal growth and were identified as a systematic cause of defective growth. Based on lessons learned from analysis of Sc2.0 defects and synXVI, an in-silico redesign of the synXVI chromosome was performed, which can be used as a blueprint for future synthetic yeast genome designs. The in-silico redesign of synXVI includes reduced PCR tag frequency, modified chunk and megachunk termini, and adjustments to allocation of loxPsym sites and TAA stop codons to dubious ORFs. This redesign provides a roadmap into applications of Sc2.0 strategies in non-yeast organisms.
PXD058959	39833358	Human epididymis protein 4-annexin II binding promotes aberrant epithelial-fibroblast crosstalk in pulmonary fibrosis. 	Human Epididymis Protein 4 Promotes Aberrant Epithelial-Fibroblast Crosstalk in Pulmonary Fibrosis	Annexin II, Human epididymis protein 4, Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis	Invasive lung myofibroblasts are the main cause of tissue remodeling in idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). A key mechanism contributing to this important feature is aberrant crosstalk between the abnormal/injured lung epithelium and pulmonary fibroblasts. Here, we demonstrate that lungs from patients with IPF and from mice with bleomycin (BLM)-induced pulmonary fibrosis (PF) are characterized by the induction of human epididymis protein 4 (HE4) overexpression in epithelial cells. HE4 knockdown primarily in epithelial cells attenuates BLM-induced PF in mice, whereas the administration of recombinant mouse HE4 exacerbates fibrosis after BLM stimulation. Mechanistic analysis shows that HE4 and annexin II (ANXA2) specific binding enhances the profibrotic phenotype in epithelial cells, and directly promotes lung fibroblast activation, leading to aberrant epithelial-fibroblast crosstalk and the persistent myofibroblast phenotype. The HE4 and ANXA2 binding site is located after the 30th amino acid at the N terminus of the HE4 molecule. Finally, intratracheal administration of HE4 shRNA lentivirus protects mice against BLM-induced PF. These data suggest that HE4 can serve as a potential therapeutic target in the treatment of IPF.
PXD057558	39833606	Glioblastoma-derived migrasomes promote migration and invasion by releasing PAK4 and LAMA4. 	Glioblastoma-derived migrasomes promote migration and invasion by releasing PAK4 and LAMA4	Cell Body, Migrasome, Q-MS	Almost all high-grade gliomas, particularly glioblastoma (GBM), are highly migratory and aggressive. Migrasomes are organelles produced by highly migratory cells capable of mediating intercellular communication. Thus, GBM cells may produce migrasomes during migration. However, it remains unclear whether migrasomes can influence GBM migration and invasion. In this study, we observed the presence and formation of migrasomes in GBM cells. We found that expression levels of key migrasome formation factor, tetraspanin 4 (TSPAN4), correlated positively with pathological grade and poor prognosis of GBM based on the databases and clinical samples analysis. Subsequently, we knocked down TSPAN4 and found that GBM cell migration and invasion were significantly inhibited due to the reduced formation of migrasomes. We further confirmed that migrasomes are enriched in extracellular matrix (ECM)-related proteins such as p21-activating kinase 4 (PAK4) and laminin alpha 4 (LAMA4). Our experimental results suggest that migrasomes promote GBM cells migration by releasing such proteins into the extracellular space. Overall, we identified migrasomes in GBM and the molecular mechanisms by which they regulate them, providing potential targets for treating GBM.
PXD057861	39833899	Genetic context modulates aging and degeneration in the murine retina. 	Genetic context modulates aging and degeneration in the murine retina	NZO, TMT, WSB, aging, diabetic retinopathy, genetic diversity, retina, retinal vascular disease, retinitis pigmentosa	BACKGROUND: Age is the principal risk factor for neurodegeneration in both the retina and brain. The retina and brain share many biological properties; thus, insights into retinal aging and degeneration may shed light onto similar processes in the brain. Genetic makeup strongly influences susceptibility to age-related retinal disease. However, studies investigating retinal aging have not sufficiently accounted for genetic diversity. Therefore, examining molecular aging in the retina across different genetic backgrounds will enhance our understanding of human-relevant aging and degeneration in both the retina and brain-potentially improving therapeutic approaches to these debilitating conditions. METHODS: Transcriptomics and proteomics were employed to elucidate retinal aging signatures in nine genetically diverse mouse strains (C57BL/6J, 129S1/SvlmJ, NZO/HlLtJ, WSB/EiJ, CAST/EiJ, PWK/PhK, NOD/ShiLtJ, A/J, and BALB/cJ) across lifespan. These data predicted human disease-relevant changes in WSB and NZO strains. Accordingly, B6, WSB, and NZO mice were subjected to human-relevant in vivo examinations at 4, 8, 12, and/or 18M, including: slit lamp, fundus imaging, optical coherence tomography, fluorescein angiography, and pattern/full-field electroretinography. Retinal morphology, vascular structure, and cell counts were assessed ex vivo. RESULTS: We identified common molecular aging signatures across the nine mouse strains, which included genes associated with photoreceptor function and immune activation. Genetic background strongly modulated these aging signatures. Analysis of cell type-specific marker genes predicted age-related loss of photoreceptors and retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in WSB and NZO, respectively. Fundus exams revealed retinitis pigmentosa-relevant pigmentary abnormalities in WSB retinas and diabetic retinopathy (DR)-relevant cotton wool spots and exudates in NZO retinas. Profound photoreceptor dysfunction and loss were confirmed in WSB. Molecular analyses indicated changes in photoreceptor-specific proteins prior to loss, suggesting photoreceptor-intrinsic dysfunction in WSB. In addition, age-associated RGC dysfunction, loss, and concomitant microvascular dysfunction were observed in NZO mice. Proteomic analyses revealed an early reduction in protective antioxidant processes, which may underlie increased susceptibility to DR-relevant pathology in NZO. CONCLUSIONS: Genetic context is a strong determinant of retinal aging, and our multi-omics resource can aid in understanding age-related diseases of the eye and brain. Our investigations identified and validated WSB and NZO mice as improved preclinical models relevant to common retinal neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD048972	39834226	Phylogenetic signal in primate tooth enamel proteins and its relevance for paleoproteomics. 	Ancient tooth enamel proteomes to help understand post mortem protein degradation over millions of years	Ancient, Enamel, Equidae, Paleoproteomics, Proboscidea	Ancient tooth enamel, and to some extent dentin and bone, contain characteristic peptides that persist for long periods of time. In particular, peptides from the enamel proteome (enamelome) have been used to reconstruct the phylogenetic relationships of fossil taxa. However, the enamelome is based on only about 10 genes, whose protein products undergo fragmentation in vivo and post mortem. This raises the question as to whether the enamelome alone provides enough information for reliable phylogenetic inference. We address these considerations on a selection of enamel-associated proteins that has been computationally predicted from genomic data from 232 primate species. We created multiple sequence alignments for each protein and estimated the evolutionary rate for each site. We examined which sites overlap with the parts of the protein sequences that are typically isolated from fossils. Based on this, we simulated ancient data with different degrees of sequence fragmentation, followed by phylogenetic analysis. We compared these trees to a reference species tree. Up to a degree of fragmentation that is similar to that of fossil samples from 1-2 million years ago, the phylogenetic placements of most nodes at family level are consistent with the reference species tree. We tested phylogenetic analysis on combinations of different enamel proteins and found that the composition of the proteome can influence deep splits in the phylogeny. With our methods, we provide guidance for researchers on how to evaluate the potential of paleoproteomics for phylogenetic studies before sampling valuable ancient specimens.
PXD054097	39835134	SILAC-based quantification reveals modulation of the immunopeptidome in BRAF and MEK inhibitor sensitive and resistant melanoma cells. 	SILAC-based quantification reveals modulation of the immunopeptidome in BRAF and MEK inhibitor-treated and resistant tumor cells	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP) (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, Immunopeptidomics, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), cancer, kinase inhibitor resistance	Background: The immunopeptidome is constantly monitored by T cells to detect foreign or aberrant HLA peptides. It is highly dynamic and reflects the current cellular state, enabling the immune system to recognize abnormal cellular conditions, such as those present in cancer cells. To precisely determine how changes in cellular processes, such as those induced by drug treatment, affect the immunopeptidome, quantitative immunopeptidomics approaches are essential. Methods: To meet this need, we developed a pulsed SILAC-based method for quantitative immunopeptidomics. Metabolic labeling with lysine, arginine, and leucine enabled isotopic labeling of nearly all HLA peptides across all allotypes (> 90% on average). We established a data analysis workflow that integrates the de novo sequencing-based tool Peptide-PRISM for comprehensive HLA peptide identification with MaxQuant for accurate quantification. Results: We employed this strategy to explore the modulation of the immunopeptidome upon MAPK pathway inhibition (MAPKi) and to investigate alterations associated with early cellular responses to inhibitor treatment and acquired resistance to MAPKi. Our analyses demonstrated significant changes in the immunopeptidome early during MAPKi treatment and in the resistant state. Moreover, we identified putative tumor-specific cryptic HLA peptides linked to these processes that might represent exploitable targets for cancer immunotherapy. Conclusions: We have developed a new mass spectrometric approach that allowed us to investigate the effects of common MAPK inhibitors on the immunopeptidome of melanoma cells. This finally led to the discovery of new potential targets for cancer immunotherapy.
PXD057701	39837331	Metagenome-informed metaproteomics of the human gut microbiome, host, and dietary exposome uncovers signatures of health and inflammatory bowel disease. 	Simultaneous metagenome-informed metaproteomics of the human gut microbiome, host and dietary exposome uncover functional interactomes in health & IBD	biomarker, diet, host, metagenomics-informed metaproteomics, microbiome	Host-microbiome-dietary interactions play crucial roles in regulating human health, yet their direct functional assessment remains challenging. We adopted metagenome-informed metaproteomics (MIM), in mice and humans, to non-invasively explore species-level microbiome-host interactions during commensal and pathogen colonization, nutritional modification, and antibiotic-induced perturbation. Simultaneously, fecal MIM accurately characterized the nutritional exposure landscape in multiple clinical and dietary contexts. Implementation of MIM in murine auto-inflammation and in human inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) characterized a "compositional dysbiosis" and a concomitant species-specific "functional dysbiosis" driven by suppressed commensal responses to inflammatory host signals. Microbiome transfers unraveled early-onset kinetics of these host-commensal cross-responsive patterns, while predictive analyses identified candidate fecal host-microbiome IBD biomarker protein pairs outperforming S100A8/S100A9 (calprotectin). Importantly, a simultaneous fecal nutritional MIM assessment enabled the determination of IBD-related consumption patterns, dietary treatment compliance, and small intestinal digestive aberrations. Collectively, a parallelized dietary-bacterial-host MIM assessment functionally uncovers trans-kingdom interactomes shaping gastrointestinal ecology while offering personalized diagnostic and therapeutic insights into microbiome-associated disease.
PXD051878	39837863	iDIA-QC: AI-empowered data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry-based quality control. 	iDIA-QC: AI-empowered Data-Independent Acquisition Mass Spectrometry-based Quality Control	Data independent acquisition, Quality Control, machine learning	Quality control (QC) in mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics is mainly based on data-dependent acquisition (DDA) analysis of standard samples. Here, we collect 2754 files acquired by data independent acquisition (DIA) and paired 2638 DDA files from mouse liver digests using 21 mass spectrometers across nine laboratories over 31 months. Our data demonstrate that DIA-based LC-MS/MS-related consensus QC metrics exhibit higher sensitivity compared to DDA-based QC metrics in detecting changes in LC-MS status. We then prioritize 15 metrics and invite 21 experts to manually assess the quality of 2754 DIA files based on those metrics. We develop an AI model for DIA-based QC using 2110 training files. It achieves AUCs of 0.91 (LC) and 0.97 (MS) in the first validation dataset (n = 528), and 0.78 (LC) and 0.94 (MS) in an independent validation dataset (n = 116). Finally, we develop an offline software called iDIA-QC for convenient adoption of this methodology.
PXD059122	39840464	WDR74-Mediated Ribosome Biogenesis and Proteome Dynamics During Mouse Preimplantation Development. 	Proteome analysis of mouse oocytes and pre-implantation embryos	early development, embryogenesis, oocyte maturation, pre-implantation embryos	Preimplantation embryonic development is orchestrated by dynamic changes in the proteome and transcriptome, regulated by mechanisms such as maternal-to-zygotic transition. Here, we employed label-free quantitative proteomics to comprehensively analyze proteome dynamics from germinal vesicle oocytes to blastocysts in mouse embryos. We identified 3490 proteins, including 715 consistently detected across all stages, revealing stage-specific changes in proteins associated with translation, protein modification, and mitochondrial metabolism. Comparison with transcriptomic data highlighted a low correlation between mRNA and protein levels, underscoring the significance of non-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms during early development. Additionally, we analyzed WD repeat-containing protein 74 (WDR74)-deficient embryos generated using CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing. WDR74, a pre-60S ribosome maturation factor, was found to be critical for ribosome biogenesis and cell division. Furthermore, WDR74 deficiency led to a significant reduction in ribosomal protein large subunit and impaired progression beyond the morula stage. Key ribosomal proteins such as ribosomal protein L24 (RPL24) and ribosomal protein L26 (RPL26), which influence cell division timing, were notably affected, while small subunit proteins remained largely unchanged. Taken together, our study demonstrates the utility of integrating genome editing with proteomic analysis to elucidate molecular mechanisms underlying early embryogenesis, and provides new insights into protein-level regulation of preimplantation development.
PXD056915	39840643	PeptideForest: Semisupervised Machine Learning Integrating Multiple Search Engines for Peptide Identification. 	PeptideForest: Semi-supervised machine learning integrating multiple search engines for peptide identification	E. coli, machine learning, peptide identification, statistical post-processing	The first step in bottom-up proteomics is the assignment of measured fragmentation mass spectra to peptide sequences, also known as peptide spectrum matches. In recent years novel algorithms have pushed the assignment to new heights; unfortunately, different algorithms come with different strengths and weaknesses and choosing the appropriate algorithm poses a challenge for the user. Here we introduce PeptideForest, a semisupervised machine learning approach that integrates the assignments of multiple algorithms to train a random forest classifier to alleviate that issue. Additionally, PeptideForest increases the number of peptide-to-spectrum matches that exhibit a q-value lower than 1% by 25.2 +/- 1.6% compared to MS-GF+ data on samples containing mixed HEK and Escherichia coli proteomes. However, an increase in quantity does not necessarily reflect an increase in quality and this is why we devised a novel approach to determine the quality of the assigned spectra through TMT quantification of samples with known ground truths. Thereby, we could show that the increase in PSMs below 1% q-value does not come with a decrease in quantification quality and as such PeptideForest offers a possibility to gain deeper insights into bottom-up proteomics. PeptideForest has been integrated into our pipeline framework Ursgal and can therefore be combined with a wide array of algorithms.
PXD054824	39840768	Rapid Microwave Fixation of the Brain Reveals Seasonal Changes in the Phosphoproteome of Hibernating Thirteen-Lined Ground Squirrels. 	Rapid microwave fixation of the brain reveals seasonal changes in the phosphoproteome of hibernating thirteen-lined ground squirrels	TMT labeling, brain, focused microwave, gene expression, hibernation, neuroprotection, phosphoproteomics	Hibernating mammals such as the thirteen-lined ground squirrel (Ictidomys tridecemlineatus) experience significant reductions in oxidative metabolism and body temperature when entering a state known as torpor. Animals entering or exiting torpor do not experience permanent loss of brain function or other injuries, and the processes that enable such neuroprotection are not well understood. To gain insight into changes in protein function that occur in the dramatically different physiological states of hibernation, we performed quantitative phosphoproteomics experiments on thirteen-lined ground squirrels that are summer-active, winter-torpid, and spring-active. An important aspect of our approach was the use of focused microwave irradiation of the brain to sacrifice the animals and rapidly inactivate phosphatases and kinases to preserve the native phosphoproteome. Overall, our results showed pronounced changes in phosphorylated proteins for the transitions into and out of torpor, including proteins involved in gene expression, DNA maintenance and repair, cellular plasticity, and human disease. In contrast, the transition between the active states showed minimal changes. This study offers valuable insight into the global changes in brain phosphorylation in hibernating mammals, the results of which may be relevant to future therapeutic strategies for brain injury.
PXD047576	39840808	Translation of the downstream ORF from bicistronic mRNAs by human cells: Impact of codon usage and splicing in the upstream ORF. 	The impact of codon usage from bicistronic mRNA on their transcriptomic, post-transcriptomic and proteomic regulation in human cells	U-2 OS, bicistronic mRNA, codon usage, polycistronic mRNA, splicing, transcript, translation	Biochemistry textbooks describe eukaryotic mRNAs as monocistronic. However, increasing evidence reveals the widespread presence and translation of upstream open reading frames preceding the "main" ORF. DNA and RNA viruses infecting eukaryotes often produce polycistronic mRNAs and viruses have evolved multiple ways of manipulating the host's translation machinery. Here, we introduce an experimental model to study gene expression regulation from virus-like bicistronic mRNAs in human cells. The model consists of a short upstream ORF and a reporter downstream ORF encoding a fluorescent protein. We have engineered synonymous variants of the upstream ORF to explore large parameter space, including codon usage preferences, mRNA folding features, and splicing propensity. We show that human translation machinery can translate the downstream ORF from bicistronic mRNAs, albeit reporter protein levels are thousand times lower than those from the upstream ORF. Furthermore, synonymous recoding of the upstream ORF exclusively during elongation significantly influences its own translation efficiency, reveals cryptic splice signals, and modulates the probability of downstream ORF translation. Our results are consistent with a leaky scanning mechanism facilitating downstream ORF translation from bicistronic mRNAs in human cells, offering new insights into the role of upstream ORFs in translation regulation.
PXD056413	39841590	Gel-Based Sample Fractionation with SP3-Purification for Top-Down Proteomics. 	PEPPI-SP3: Robust and Simple Sample Prefractionation Workflow for Top-Down Proteomics	PEPPI-MS, Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, SP3, Sample fractionation, Top-down proteomics	Precise prefractionation of proteome samples is a potent method for realizing in-depth analysis in top-down proteomics. PEPPI-MS (Passively Eluting Proteins from Polyacrylamide gels as Intact species for MS), a gel-based sample fractionation method, enables high-resolution proteome fractionation based on molecular weight by highly efficient extraction of proteins from polyacrylamide gels after SDS-PAGE separation. Thereafter it is essential to effectively remove contaminants such as CBB and SDS from the PEPPI fraction prior to mass spectrometry. In this study, we developed a complete, robust, and simple sample preparation workflow named PEPPI-SP3 for top-down proteomics by combining PEPPI-MS with the magnetic bead-based protein purification approach used in SP3 (single-pot, solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation), now one of the standard sample preparation methods in bottom-up proteomics. In PEPPI-SP3, proteins extracted from the gel are collected on the surface of SP3 beads, washed with organic solvents, and recovered intact with 100 mM ammonium bicarbonate containing 0.05% (w/v) SDS. The recovered proteins are subjected to mass spectrometry after additional purification using an anion-exchange StageTip. Performance validation using human cell lysates showed a significant improvement in low-molecular-weight protein recovery with a lower coefficient of variation compared to conventional PEPPI workflows using organic solvent precipitation or ultrafiltration.
PXD055249	39841805	Perinatal dysfunction of innate immunity in cystic fibrosis. 	Proteome analysis of lung, lung-derived leukocytes and PBMCs in a pig model for cystic fibrosis.	Pig model, cystic fibrosis	In patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), repeated cycles of infection and inflammation eventually lead to fatal lung damage. Although diminished mucus clearance can be restored by highly effective CFTR modulator therapy, inflammation and infection often persist. To elucidate the role of the innate immune system in CF etiology, we investigated a CF pig model and compared these results with those for preschool children with CF. In newborn CF pigs, we observed changes in lung immune cell composition before the onset of infection that were dominated by increased monocyte infiltration, whereas neutrophil numbers remained constant. Flow cytometric and transcriptomic profiling revealed that the infiltrating myeloid cells displayed a more immature status. Cells with comparably immature transcriptomic profiles were enriched in the blood of CF pigs at birth as well as in preschool children with CF. This pattern coincided with decreased CD16 expression in the myeloid cells of both pigs and humans, which translated into lower phagocytic activity and reduced production of reactive oxygen species in both species. These results were indicative of a congenital, translationally conserved, and functionally relevant aberration of the immune system in CF. In newborn wild-type pigs, CFTR transcription in immune cells, including lung-derived and circulating monocytes, isolated from the bone marrow, thymus, spleen, and blood was below the detection limits of highly sensitive assays, suggesting an indirect etiology of the observed effects. Our findings highlight the need for additional immunological treatments to target innate immune deficits in patients with CF.
PXD057691	39842432	MFGE8 induces anti-PD-1 therapy resistance by promoting extracellular vesicle sorting of PD-L1. 	MFGE8 induces anti-PD-1-therapy resistance by promoting extracellular vesicle sorting of PD-L1	Extracellular vesicles, MFGE8, PD-L1, UBE4A, anti-PD-1-therapy resistance	Anti-PD-1 therapy, effective in patients with various advanced tumors, still encounters the challenge of insensitivity in most patients. Here, we demonstrate that PD-L1 on tumor cell-derived extracellular vesicles (TEVs) is critical for anti-PD-1 therapy resistance. Reducing endogenous and transferring exogenous TEVs abrogates and induces anti-PD-1 therapy resistance, respectively. Notably, PD-L1 is sorted onto TEVs via the endosomal sorting complex required for transport after ubiquitination by UBE4A and gradually upregulated on TEVs with tumor progression. During progression, increased MFGE8 from tumor cells promotes self alphav integrin signaling activation, enabling themselves to upregulate UBE4A, thereby increasing PD-L1 on TEVs and enhancing their immunosuppressive abilities. Translationally, anti-MFGE8-neutralizing antibodies effectively downregulate UBE4A and TEV PD-L1, thereby negating anti-PD-1 therapy resistance. Furthermore, serum MFGE8 and PD-L1(+) EV levels of tumor patients correlate positively, and high levels of both indicate poor prognosis after anti-PD-1 therapy. Thus, MFGE8 is a promising target for overcoming resistance and predicting responsiveness to anti-PD-1 therapy.
PXD056970	39842664	The SET29 and SET7 proteins of Leishmania donovani exercise non-redundant convergent as well as collaborative functions in moderating the parasite's response to oxidative stress. 	Proteomics analysis of lysine methylated proteins from Leishmania donovani strain 1S: wild type and set mutants	Leishmania donovani, SET domain, SET proteins, lysine methylation	SET proteins are lysine methyltransferases. In investigating Leishmania donovani SET29, we found depletion of LdSET29 by two-thirds did not affect promastigote growth, nor alter the parasite's response to UV-induced or HU-induced stress, but made it more tolerant to H2O2-induced oxidizing environment. The deviant response to oxidative stress was coupled to lowered accumulation of reactive oxygen species, which was linked to enhanced scavenging activity. The set29 mutants' response to H2O2 exposure was similar to that of set7 mutants, prompting an investigation into genetic and physical interactions between the two proteins. While neither protein could rescue the aberrant phenotypes of the other set mutant, the two proteins interacted physically in vitro and in vivo. Transcriptome analyses revealed that neither protein regulated global gene expression, but LdSET7 controlled transcript levels of a limited number of genes, including several peroxidases. In working towards identifying targets through which SET7/SET29 mediate the cell's response to an oxidative milieu, we found HSP60/CNP60 and TCP1 to be possible candidates. LdHSP60 has earlier been implicated in the regulation of the response of virulent promastigotes to H2O2 exposure, and LdTCP1 has previously been found to have a protective effect against oxidative stress. set7 and set29 mutants survived more proficiently in host macrophages as well. The data suggest an alliance between LdSET29 and LdSET7 in mounting the parasite's response to oxidative stress, each protein playing its own distinctive role. They ensure the parasite not only establishes infection, but also maintains the balance with host cells to enable the persistence of infection.
PXD045235	39842777	Isolation of proteins on chromatin (iPOC) reveals signaling pathway-dependent alterations in the DNA-bound proteome. 	Optimized isolation of protein on chromatin (iPOC) strategy reveals the dynamics of chromatin composition upon inhibition of PI3K/AKT/mTOR signaling	DNA binding proteomics, LC/MS-MS, PI3K/AKT/mTOR	Signaling pathways often convergence on transcription factors (TFs) and other DNA-binding proteins (DBPs) that regulate chromatin structure and gene expression, thereby governing a broad range of essential cellular functions. However, the repertoire of DBPs is incompletely understood even for the best-characterized pathways. Here, we optimized a strategy for the isolation of Proteins on Chromatin (iPOC) exploiting tagged nucleoside analogues to label the DNA and capture associated proteins, thus enabling the comprehensive, sensitive, and unbiased characterization of the DNA-bound proteome. We then applied iPOC to investigate chromatome changes upon perturbation of the cancer-relevant PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway. Our results show distinct dynamics of the DNA-bound proteome upon selective inhibition of PI3K, AKT, or mTOR, and we provide evidence how this signaling cascade regulates the DNA-bound status of SUZ12, thereby modulating H3K27me3 levels. Collectively, iPOC is a powerful approach to study the composition of the DNA-bound proteome operating downstream of signaling cascades, thereby both expanding our knowledge of the mechanism of action of the pathway, and unveiling novel chromatin modulators that can potentially be targeted pharmacologically.
PXD051956	39842778	Filter-aided extracellular vesicle enrichment (FAEVEr) for proteomics. 	Comparison of the MCF7 proteome cultured in standard FBS and EV depleted FBS	EV-depleted FBS, FBS, extracellular vesicles, starvation	Extracellular vesicles (EVs), membrane-delimited nanovesicles that are secreted by cells into the extracellular environment, are gaining substantial interest due to their involvement in cellular homeostasis and their contribution to disease pathology. The latter in particular has led to an exponential increase in interest in EVs as they are considered to be circulating packages containing potential biomarkers and are also a possible biological means to deliver drugs in a cell-specific manner. However, several challenges hamper straightforward proteome analysis of EVs as they are generally low abundant and reside in complex biological matrices. These matrices typically contain abundant proteins at concentrations that vastly exceed the concentrations of proteins found in the EV proteome. Therefore, extensive EV isolation and purification protocols are imperative and many have been developed, including (density) ultracentrifugation, size-exclusion and precipitation methods. Here, we describe filter-aided extracellular vesicle enrichment (FAEVEr) as an approach based on 300 kDa MWCO filtration that allows the processing of multiple samples in parallel within a reasonable timeframe and at moderate cost. We demonstrate that FAEVEr is capable of quantitatively retaining EV particles on filters, whilst allowing extensive washing with the mild detergent TWEEN-20 to remove interfering non-EV proteins. The retained particles are directly lysed on the filter for a complete recovery of the EV protein cargo towards proteome analysis. Here, we validate and optimize FAEVEr on recombinant EV material and apply it on conditioned medium as well as on complex bovine serum, human plasma and urine. Our results indicate that EVs isolated from MCF7 cells cultured with or without serum have a drastic different proteome because of nutrient deprivation.
PXD041408	39843653	ARID1A mutations protect follicular lymphoma from FAS-dependent immune surveillance by reducing RUNX3/ETS1-driven FAS-expression. 	ARID1A mutations protect follicular lymphoma from FAS-dependent immune surveillance by reducing RUNX3/ETS1-driven FAS-expression	FAS, cell surface, parallel reaction monitoring	The cell death receptor FAS and its ligand (FASLG) play crucial roles in the selection of B cells during the germinal center (GC) reaction. Failure to eliminate potentially harmful B cells via FAS can lead to lymphoproliferation and the development of B cell malignancies. The classic form of follicular lymphoma (FL) is a prototypic GC-derived B cell malignancy, characterized by the t(14;18)(q32;q21)IGH::BCL2 translocation and overexpression of antiapoptotic BCL2. Additional alterations were shown to be clinically relevant, including mutations in ARID1A. ARID1A is part of the SWI/SNF nucleosome remodeling complex that regulates DNA accessibility ("openness"). However, the mechanism how ARID1A mutations contribute to FL pathogenesis remains unclear. We analyzed 151 FL biopsies of patients with advanced-stage disease at initial diagnosis and found that ARID1A mutations were recurrent and mainly disruptive, with an overall frequency of 18%. Additionally, we observed that ARID1A mutant FL showed significantly lower FAS protein expression in the FL tumor cell population. Functional experiments in BCL2-translocated lymphoma cells demonstrated that ARID1A is directly involved in the regulation of FAS, and ARID1A loss leads to decreased FAS protein and gene expression. However, ARID1A loss did not affect FAS promotor openness. Instead, we identified and experimentally validated a previously unknown co-transcriptional complex consisting of RUNX3 and ETS1 that regulates FAS expression, and ARID1A loss leads to reduced RUNX3 promotor openness and gene expression. The reduced FAS levels induced by ARID1A loss rendered lymphoma cells resistant to both soluble and T cell membrane-anchored FASLG-induced apoptosis, and significantly diminished CAR T cell killing in functional experiments. In summary, we have identified a functionally and clinically relevant mechanism how FL cells can escape FAS-dependent immune surveillance, which may also impact the efficacy of T cell-based therapies, including CAR T cells.
PXD058805	39846634	Novel Integration of Spatial and Single-Cell Omics Data Sets Enables Deeper Insights into IPF Pathogenesis. 	Novel integration of spatial and single-cell omics data sets  enables deeper insights into IPF pathogenesis	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, LCM-directed spatial proteomics, lung	Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a progressive lung disease characterized by repetitive alveolar injuries with excessive deposition of extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. A crucial need in understanding IPF pathogenesis is identifying cell types associated with histopathological regions, particularly local fibrosis centers known as fibroblast foci. To address this, we integrated published spatial transcriptomics and single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) transcriptomics and adopted the Query method and the Overlap method to determine cell type enrichments in histopathological regions. Distinct fibroblast cell types are highly associated with fibroblast foci, and transitional alveolar type 2 and aberrant KRT5-/KRT17+ (KRT: keratin) epithelial cells are associated with morphologically normal alveoli in human IPF lungs. Furthermore, we employed laser capture microdissection-directed mass spectrometry to profile proteins. By comparing with another published similar dataset, common differentially expressed proteins and enriched pathways related to ECM structure organization and collagen processing were identified in fibroblast foci. Importantly, cell type enrichment results from innovative spatial proteomics and scRNA-seq data integration accord with those from spatial transcriptomics and scRNA-seq data integration, supporting the capability and versatility of the entire approach. In summary, we integrated spatial multi-omics with scRNA-seq data to identify disease-associated cell types and potential targets for novel therapies in IPF intervention. The approach can be further applied to other disease areas characterized by spatial heterogeneity.
PXD016222	39846635	Identification of Proteoforms Related to Nelumbo nucifera Flower Petaloid Through Proteogenomic Strategy. 	Flower morphology development in lotus Sleeping Beauty'	flower morphology, lotus, petaloid	Nelumbo nucifera is an aquatic plant with a high ornamental value due to its flower. Despite the release of several versions of the lotus genome, its annotation remains inefficient, which makes it difficult to obtain a more comprehensive knowledge when -omic studies are applied to understand the different biological processes. Focusing on the petaloid of the lotus flower, we conducted a comparative proteomic analysis among five major floral organs. The proteogenomic strategy was applied to analyze the mass spectrometry data in order to dig out novel proteoforms that are involved in the petaloids of the lotus flower. The results revealed that a total of 4863 proteins corresponding to novel genes were identified, with 227 containing single amino acid variants (SAAVs), and 72 originating from alternative splicing (AS) genes. In addition, a range of post-translational modifications (PTMs) events were also identified in lotus. Through functional annotation and homology analysis with 24 closely related plant species, we identified five candidate proteins associated with floral organ development, which were not identified by ordinary proteomic analysis. This study not only provides new insights into understanding the mechanism of petaloids in lotus but is also helpful in identifying new proteoforms to improve the annotation of the lotus genome.
PXD051984	39849557	Functional heterogeneity of mesenchymal stem cells and their therapeutic potential in the K18-hACE2 mouse model of SARS-CoV-2 infection. 	Functional Heterogeneity Analysis of Mesenchymal Stem Cell Lines and their Therapeutic Potential in the K18-hACE2 Mouse Model of SARS-CoV-2 Infection	COVID-19, K18-hACE2, heterogeneity, immunomodulation, mesenchymal stem cells	BACKGROUND: Despite many years of investigation into mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and their potential for treating inflammatory conditions such as COVID-19, clinical outcomes remain variable due to factors like donor variability, different tissue sources, and diversity within MSC populations. Variations in MSCs' secretory and proliferation profiles, and their proteomic and transcriptional characteristics significantly influence their therapeutic potency, highlighting the need for enhanced characterization methods to better predict their efficacy. This study aimed to evaluate the biological characteristics of MSCs from different tissue origins, selecting the most promising line for further validation in a K18-hACE2 mouse model of SARS-CoV-2 infection. METHODS: We studied nine MSC lines sourced from either bone marrow (hBMMSC), dental pulp (hDPMSC), or umbilical cord tissue (hUCMSC). The cells were assessed for their proliferative capacity, immunophenotype, trilineage differentiation, proteomic profile, and in vitro immunomodulatory potential by co-culture with activated lymphocytes. The most promising MSC line was selected for further experimental validation using the K18-hACE2 mouse model of SARS-CoV-2 infection. RESULTS: The analyzed cells met the minimum criteria for defining MSCs, including the expression of surface molecules and differentiation capacity, showing genetic stability and proliferative potential. Proteomic analysis revealed distinct protein profiles that correlate with the tissue origin of MSCs. The immunomodulatory response exhibited variability, lacking a discernible pattern associated with their origin. In co-culture assays with lymphocytes activated with anti-CD3/CD28 beads, all MSC lines demonstrated the ability to inhibit TNF-alpha, to induce TGF-beta and Indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO), with varying degrees of inhibition observed for IFN-gamma and IL-6, or induction of IL-10 expression. A module of proteins was found to statistically correlate with the potency of IL-6 modulation, leading to the selection of one of the hUCMSCs as the most promising line. Administration of hUCMSC to SARS-CoV-2-infected K18 mice expressing hACE2 was effective in improving lung histology and modulating of a panel of cytokines. CONCLUSIONS: Our study assessed MSCs derived from various tissues, uncovering significant variability in their characteristics and immunomodulatory capacities. Particularly, hUCMSCs demonstrated potential in mitigating lung pathology in a SARS-CoV-2 infection model, suggesting their promising therapeutic efficacy.
PXD053720	39851180	A Fast, High-Sensitivity 96-Well Plate-Based MICROFASP Method for Processing Low Microgram Proteomics Sample within 1.5 h. 	A fast, high-sensitivity 96-well plate based MICROFASP method for processing low microgram proteomics sample within 1.5 hours	fast sample preparation, high-sensitivity, high-throughput, proteomics analysis	A rapid, sensitive, and high-throughput sample preparation method is of paramount significance for proteomics analysis. Here, we report a fast, high-sensitivity MICROFASP method that is capable of completing sample preparation within 1.5 h, enhancing the throughput by over 13 times compared to the previous reports. Protein digestion time was significantly cut from 17 h to 20 min in a limited volume. Simultaneous reduction and alkylation occurred within 30 min. The label-free quantitation intensities of proteins from the fast and conventional MICROFASP methods were highly correlated (r = 0.91), validating the reliability of the fast-MICROFASP method. When starting with 1 mug of K562 cell lysate, the fast-MICROFASP method identified over 6 times more protein groups and 19 times more peptides than did the iST method. A 96-well plate-based version was developed to process 8 brain tissue samples from APP/PS1 transgenic mice in parallel. Averagely, with only 1 mug of protein lysate, 2826 protein groups (n = 8, RSD = 0.7%) and 12,972 peptides (n = 8, RSD = 1.5%) were identified from each sample. Amyloid-beta protein was successfully identified as a highly expressed protein, which shows its potential for detecting diagnostic markers and proteome profiling with low-microgram samples. We anticipate the high-sensitivity 96-well plate-based fast-MICROFASP method will have wide application in high-throughput and rapid preparation of large cohorts of low-microgram samples (e.g., clinical biopsy) for comprehensive proteome profiling. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD053720.
PXD054558	39851553	Interaction Between Malat1 and miR-499-5p Regulates Meis1 Expression and Function with a Net Impact on Cell Proliferation. 	Interaction between Malat1 and miR-499-5p regulates Meis1 expression and function with a net impact on cell proliferation	Cell cycle, Cell proliferation, Malat1, Meis1, gene regulation, miR-499-5p, non-coding RNAs	Meis1 is a transcription factor involved in numerous functions including development and proliferation and has been previously shown to harness cell cycle progression. In this study, we used in silico analysis to predict that miR-499-5p targets Meis1 and that Malat1 sponges miR-499-5p. For the first time, we demonstrated that the overexpression of miR-499-5p led to the downregulation of Meis1 mRNA and protein in C166 cells by directly binding to its 3'UTR. Moreover, knocking down Malat1 increased miR-499-5p expression, subsequently suppressing Meis1. Through BrdU incorporation assay, we showed that the knockdown of Malat1, Meis1, or mimicking with miR-499-5p promoted cell proliferation. Enrichment analyses on proteins identified via mass spectrometry after manipulating Malat1, miR-499-5p, or Meis1 revealed a multitude of differentially expressed proteins related to cell cycle, cell division, and key pathways like Wnt and mTOR, essential for cell proliferation. Collectively, our findings confirm that Malat1 sponges miR-499-5p, regulating Meis1, and that Malat1/miR-499-5p/Meis1 could potentially form an axis that has a pivotal influence on cellular proliferation.
PXD049302	39852372	The Protective Effect of Docosahexaenoic Acid on Mitochondria in SH-SY5Y Model of Rotenone-Induced Toxicity. 	The protective effect of docosahexaenoic acid on mitochondria in a SH-SY5Y model of rotenone-induced toxicity	DHA, SH-SY5Y, mitochondria, rotenone	Background: Polyunsaturated fatty acids in particular omega-3 fatty acids, such as docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), are essential nutrients and components of the plasma membrane. They are involved in various processes, including synaptic development, functionality, integrity, and plasticity, and are therefore thought to have general neuroprotective properties. Considerable research evidence further supports the beneficial effects of omega-3 fatty acids, specifically on mitochondria, through their antioxidant and anti-apoptotic properties, making them an attractive addition in treatment options for neurodegenerative disorders in which mitochondrial alterations are commonly observed. However, precise information on the underlying protective mechanisms is still lacking. Methods: We utilized the most common neuronal cell line (SH-SY5Y) and induced mitochondrial oxidative stress through the addition of rotenone. To study the potential protective effect of DHA, the cells were additionally pre-treated with DHA prior to rotenone administration. By combining SILAC labeling, mitochondria enrichment, and subsequent proteomic analyses, we aimed to determine the capacity of DHA to alleviate mitochondrial oxidative stress in vitro and further shed light on the molecular mechanisms contributing to the proposed neuroprotective effect. Results: We confirmed a reduced cell viability and an increased abundance of reactive oxygen species upon rotenone treatment, DHA pre-treatment was shown to decrease said species. Additionally proteomic analysis revealed an increased expression of mitochondrial proteins in DHA pre-treated cells. Conclusions: With our study, we were able to define a potential compensatory mechanism by which the inhibition of complex I is overcome by an increased activity of the fatty acid beta oxidation in response to DHA.
PXD055389	39853433	CFAP65 is essential for C2a projection integrity in axonemes: implications for organ-specific ciliary dysfunction and infertility. 	Identification of the CFAP65 interactome from mouse testis	CFAP65, IP-MS, Testis	Defects in motile cilia and flagella lead to motile ciliopathies, including primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD), which manifests as multi-organ dysfunction such as hydrocephalus, infertility, and respiratory issues. CFAP65 variants are a common cause of male infertility, but its localization and function have remained unclear. In this study, we systematically evaluated CFAP65's role using Cfap65 knockout mice and human patients with CFAP65 variants. The knockout mice displayed severe sperm flagellar defects (MMAF), high hydrocephalus incidence, but no significant impact on respiratory cilia. Similarly, the patients exhibited MMAF and infertility without respiratory symptoms. CFAP65 was found to anchor at the base of the C2a projection of the axoneme, interacting with proteins such as CFAP70 and MYCBPAP. Loss of CFAP65 caused disorganization of the sperm head-shaping microtubule structure and impaired protamine precursor removal, leading to nuclear condensation defects and poor assisted reproductive outcomes. Importantly, the assembly of CFAP65 was unaffected in mice with defects in the radial spokes (RSs) and nexin-dynein regulatory complex (N-DRC), indicating that CFAP65 assembly is independent of these components. However, CFAP65 deficiency led to the disintegration of the C2a projection, compromising ciliary and flagellar integrity. These findings establish CFAP65 as an essential component of the C2a projection, critical for the structure and function of sperm flagella and ependymal cilia, but not respiratory cilia, underscoring the organ-specific consequences of C2a projection defects in PCD.
PXD049304	39853696	Inhibition of acyl-CoA synthetase long-chain isozymes decreases multiple myeloma cell proliferation and causes mitochondrial dysfunction. 	Inhibition of Acyl-CoA Synthetase Long Chain (ACSL) Isozymes Decreases Multiple Myeloma Cell Proliferation, Mitochondrial Function and Affects Key Survival Pathways	ACSL, Acyl-CoA Synthetase Long Chain, Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Fatty acid metabolism, Human Proteome Project, MM.1S, Multiple Myeloma, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), Triacsin C	Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable cancer of plasma cells with a 5-year survival rate of 59%. Dysregulation of fatty acid (FA) metabolism is associated with MM development and progression; however, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Herein, we explore the roles of long-chain fatty acid coenzyme A ligase (ACSL) family members in MM. ACSLs convert free long-chain fatty acids into fatty acyl-CoA esters and play key roles in catabolic and anabolic fatty acid metabolism. Analysis of the Multiple Myeloma Research Foundation (MMRF) CoMMpass(SM) study showed that high ACSL1 and ACSL4 expression in myeloma cells are both associated with worse clinical outcomes for MM patients. Cancer Dependency Map (DepMap) data showed that all five ACSLs have negative Chronos scores, and ACSL3 and ACSL4 were among the top 25% Hallmark Fatty Acid Metabolism genes that support myeloma cell line fitness. Inhibition of ACSLs in myeloma cell lines in vitro, using the pharmacological inhibitor Triacsin C (TriC), increased apoptosis, decreased proliferation, and decreased cell viability, in a dose- and time-dependent manner. RNA-sequencing analysis of MM.1S cells treated with TriC showed a significant enrichment in apoptosis, ferroptosis, and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, and proteomic analysis of these cells revealed enriched pathways for mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative phosphorylation. TriC also rewired mitochondrial metabolism by decreasing mitochondrial membrane potential, increasing mitochondrial superoxide levels, decreasing mitochondrial ATP production rates, and impairing cellular respiration. Overall, our data support the hypothesis that suppression of ACSLs in myeloma cells is a novel metabolic target in MM that inhibits their viability, implicating this family as a promising therapeutic target in treating myeloma.
PXD055191	39854009	ENO2-Regulated Glycolysis in Endothelial Cells Contributes to FGF2-Induced Retinal Neovascularization. 	DIA proteomics analysis of FGF2-treated human retinal microvascular endothelial cells	DIA, Endothelial cell, FGF2	Purpose: Ocular neovascularization is a major cause of blindness. Although fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) has been implicated in the pathophysiology of angiogenesis, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. The purpose of this study was to investigate the role of FGF2 in retinal neovascularization and elucidate its underlying mechanisms. Methods: The oxygen-induced retinopathy mouse model was used to study the pathogenesis of retinal neovascularization. Immunofluorescence was used to quantify the neovascularization in retina. Data-independent acquisition proteomics were performed to quantify differentially expressed proteins in human retinal microvascular endothelial cells stimulated with FGF2 and associated pathways were analyzed. We carried out qRT-PCR and Western Blot assays to detect the expression of genes at mRNA and protein levels. The angiogenesis abilities of human retinal microvascular endothelial cells were measured by transwell, EdU and tube formation assays. Results: FGF2 was significantly upregulated in retinal tissues of the oxygen-induced retinopathy mouse model and it markedly enhanced tube formation, migration, and proliferation abilities of human retinal microvascular endothelial cells in vitro. The proteomic analysis identified 287 differentially expressed proteins in endothelial cells in response to FGF2 stimulation, characterized by a notable upregulation of the glycolysis pathway, among which we confirmed that the enolase 2 (ENO2) levels were elevated after FGF2 stimulation, and its knockdown resulted in diminished glycolytic activity and impaired angiogenic processes. Furthermore, the use of the ENO2 inhibitor AP-III-a4 alleviated angiogenesis in vivo and in vitro. Conclusions: Our findings underscore the pivotal role of ENO2-mediated glycolysis in FGF2-induced angiogenesis, suggesting that ENO2 may serve as a promising therapeutic target for managing pathological neovascularization.
PXD056085	39854051	Elucidation of the Glycan Structure of the b-type Flagellin of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1. 	Elucidation of the glycan structure of the b-type flagellin of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1	Pseudomonas, bacteria, cell motility, glycosylation, mass spectrometry (MS)	Flagella are essential for motility and pathogenicity in many bacteria. The main component of the flagellar filament, flagellin (FliC), often undergoes post-translational modifications, with glycosylation being a common occurrence. In Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1, the b-type flagellin is O-glycosylated with a structure that includes a deoxyhexose, a phospho-group, and a previous unknown moiety. This structure resembles the well-characterized glycan (Type A) in Clostridioides difficile strain 630, which features an N-acetylglucosamine linked to an N-methylthreonine via a phosphodiester bond. This study aimed to characterize the b-type glycan structure in Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 using a set of mass spectrometry experiments. For this purpose, we used wild-type P. aeruginosa PAO1 and several gene mutants from the b-type glycan biosynthetic cluster. Moreover, we compared the mass spectrometry characteristics of the b-type glycan with those of in vitro modified Type A-peptides from C. difficile strain 630Deltaerm. Our results demonstrate that the thus far unknown moiety of the b-type glycan in P. aeruginosa consists of an N,N-dimethylthreonine. These data allowed us to refine our model of the flagellin glycan biosynthetic pathway in both P. aeruginosa PAO1 and C. difficile strain 630.
PXD054702	39854355	Respiratory extracellular vesicle isolation optimization through proteomic profiling of equine samples and identification of candidates for cell-of-origin studies. 	Characterization of equine bronchoalveolar lavage fluid extracellular vesicle proteomes across four isolation methods	bronchoalveolar lavage, cell surface markers, equine, extracellular vesicles, methods optimization, respiratory	Growing evidence supports the importance of extracellular vesicle (EV) as mediators of communication in pathological processes, including those underlying respiratory disease. However, establishing methods for isolating and characterizing EVs remains challenging, particularly for respiratory samples. This study set out to address this challenge by comparing different EV isolation methods and evaluating their impacts on EV yield, markers of purity, and proteomic signatures, utilizing equine/horse bronchoalveolar lavage samples. Horses can serve as effective translational animal models for respiratory studies due to similarities with human immune responses, shared environmental exposures, and naturally occurring respiratory diseases including asthma. Further, horses are long-lived large animals that allow for longitudinal sample collection, and provide large sample volume and cell yield, which are particularly useful since EV research is commonly limited by low sample yields. Here, EVs were isolated from horse bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) using four different methods (ultracentrifugation, microcentrifugation, and two sizes of size exclusion chromatography columns) and characterized by measuring particle counts, EV purity, total protein yield, and proteomic cargo, with a specific focus on vesicle surface marker expression potentially informing cell type of origin. We found that size exclusion chromatography yielded the highest particle counts, greatest EV purity markers and elevated vesicle surface marker expression. Overall proteomic profiles differed across isolation methods, with size exclusion chromatography clustering separately from centrifugation. Taken together, our results demonstrate that different isolation methods impact characteristics of EVs, notably that size exclusion chromatography, compared to centrifugation methods, resulted in higher EV purity and better characterized proteomic diversity, including information on EV cell-of-origin. This is the first study to characterize proteomic profiles of EVs following different isolation methods using equine BALF. The results of this study will pave the way for future studies using equine and human samples to characterize respiratory tract EVs.
PXD045687	39855194	High-resolution spatially resolved proteomics of complex tissues based on microfluidics and transfer learning. 	High-resolution spatially resolved proteomics of complex tissues based on microfluidics and transfer  learning	Microfluidics, Spatial proteomics, Transfer learning	Despite recent advances in imaging- and antibody-based methods, achieving in-depth, high-resolution protein mapping across entire tissues remains a significant challenge in spatial proteomics. Here, we present parallel-flow projection and transfer learning across omics data (PLATO), an integrated framework combining microfluidics with deep learning to enable high-resolution mapping of thousands of proteins in whole tissue sections. We validated the PLATO framework by profiling the spatial proteome of the mouse cerebellum, identifying 2,564 protein groups in a single run. We then applied PLATO to rat villus and human breast cancer samples, achieving a spatial resolution of 25 mum and uncovering proteomic dynamics associated with disease states. This approach revealed spatially distinct tumor subtypes, identified key dysregulated proteins, and provided novel insights into the complexity of the tumor microenvironment. We believe that PLATO represents a transformative platform for exploring spatial proteomic regulation and its interplay with genetic and environmental factors.
PXD054371	39855199	Comparative proteomic landscapes elucidate human preimplantation development and failure. 	Comparative proteomic landscapes provide insights into mammalian preimplantation development and failure	Cross species analysis, Mouse preimplantation development, Multi-omics analysis, Protein turnover, Ultrasensitive proteomics, Zygotic genome activation (ZGA)	Understanding mammalian preimplantation development, particularly in humans, at the proteomic level remains limited. Here, we applied our comprehensive solution of ultrasensitive proteomic technology to measure the proteomic profiles of oocytes and early embryos and identified nearly 8,000 proteins in humans and over 6,300 proteins in mice. We observed distinct proteomic dynamics before and around zygotic genome activation (ZGA) between the two species. Integrative analysis with translatomic data revealed extensive divergence between translation activation and protein accumulation. Multi-omic analysis indicated that ZGA transcripts often contribute to protein accumulation in blastocysts. Using mouse embryos, we identified several transcriptional regulators critical for early development, thereby linking ZGA to the first lineage specification. Furthermore, single-embryo proteomics of poor-quality embryos from over 100 patient couples provided insights into preimplantation development failure. Our study may contribute to reshaping the framework of mammalian preimplantation development and opening avenues for addressing human infertility.
PXD058312	39856062	SLC25A38 is required for mitochondrial pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) accumulation. 	SLC25A38 is Required for  Mitochondrial Pyridoxal 5'-Phosphate (PLP) accumulation	Mito IP, SLC25A38, proliferation defects	Many essential proteins require pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, the active form of vitamin B6, as a cofactor for their activity. These include enzymes important for amino acid metabolism, one-carbon metabolism, polyamine synthesis, erythropoiesis, and neurotransmitter metabolism. A third of all mammalian pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzymes are localized in the mitochondria; however, the molecular machinery involved in the regulation of mitochondrial pyridoxal 5'-phosphate levels in mammals remains unknown. In this study, we used a genome-wide CRISPR interference screen in erythroleukemia cells and organellar metabolomics to identify the mitochondrial inner membrane protein SLC25A38 as a regulator of mitochondrial pyridoxal 5'-phosphate. Loss of SLC25A38 causes depletion of mitochondrial, but not cellular, pyridoxal 5'-phosphate, and impairs cellular proliferation under both physiological and low vitamin B6 conditions. Metabolic changes associated with SLC25A38 loss suggest impaired mitochondrial pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzymatic reactions, including serine to glycine conversion catalyzed by serine hydroxymethyltransferase-2 as well as ornithine aminotransferase. The proliferation defect of SLC25A38-null K562 cells in physiological and low vitamin B6 media can be explained by the loss of serine hydroxymethyltransferase-2-dependent production of one-carbon units and downstream de novo nucleotide synthesis. Our work points to a role for SLC25A38 in mitochondrial pyridoxal 5'-phosphate accumulation and provides insights into the pathology of congenital sideroblastic anemia.
PXD049990	39856101	Multiomics approach identifies dysregulated lipidomic and proteomic networks in Parkinson's disease patients mutated in TMEM175. 	Multi-omics approach identifies a network of lipids and proteins associated to lysosomal and mitochondrial metabolism in Parkinson's disease patients carrying mutations in TMEM175 gene.	Multi-omics, Parkinson disease, TMEM175 mutation	Parkinson's disease (PD) represents one of the most frequent neurodegenerative disorders for which clinically useful biomarkers remain to be identified and validated. Here, we adopted an untargeted omics approach to disclose lipidomic, metabolomic and proteomic alterations in plasma and in dermal fibroblasts of PD patients carrying mutations in TMEM175 gene. We revealed a wide dysregulation of lysosome, autophagy, and mitochondrial pathways in these patients, supporting a role of this channel in regulating these cellular processes. The most significant altered lipid classes were Fatty acyls, Glycerophospholipids and Phosphosphingolipids. The plasma level of Phosphatidylcholines (PC) and Phosphatidylinositol (PI) 34:1 significantly correlated with an earlier age at onset of the disease in TMEM175 patients (p = 0.008; p = 0.006). In plasma we also observed altered amino acids metabolic pathways in PD patients. We highlighted that increased level of L-glutamate strongly correlated (p < 0.001) with the severity of motor and non-motor symptoms in PD_TMEM175 patients. In dermal fibroblasts, we disclosed alterations of proteins involved in lipids biosynthesis (PAG15, PP4P1, GALC, FYV1, PIGO, PGPS1, PLPP1), in the insulin pathway (IGF2R), in mitochondrial metabolism (ACD10, ACD11, ACADS) and autophagy (RAB7L). Interestingly, we quantified 43 lysosomal or lysosomal-related proteins, which were differentially modulated between TMEM175 patients and controls. Integrative correlation analysis of proteome and lipidome of PD_TMEM175 cellular models identified a strong positive correlation of 13 proteins involved in biosynthetic processes with PC and Ceramides. Altogether, these data provide novel insights into the molecular and metabolic alterations underlying TMEM175 mutations and may be relevant for PD prediction, diagnosis and treatment.
PXD058193	39857679	A Pilot Study of Exosome Proteomic Profiling Reveals Dysregulated Metabolic Pathways in Endometrial Cancer. 	Use of the proteomics approach to study endometrial cancer.	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), extracellular vesicles	Background/Objectives: Endometrial cancer (EC) is the second most frequent gynecological malignant tumor in postmenopausal women. Pathogenic mechanisms related to the onset and development of the disease are still unknown. To identify dysregulated proteins associated with EC we exploited a combined in vitro/in silico approach analyzing the proteome of exosomes with advanced MS techniques and annotating their results by using Chymeris1 AI tools. Methods: To this aim in this pilot study, we performed a deep proteomics analysis with high resolution MS (HRMS), advanced computational tools and western blotting for proteomics data validation. Results: That allowed us to identify 3628 proteins in serum albumin-depleted exosomes from 10 patients with EC compared to 10 healthy controls. This is the largest number of proteins identified in EC serum EVs. After quantification and statistical analysis, we identified 373 significantly (p < 0.05) dysregulated proteins involved in neutrophil and platelet degranulation pathways. A more detailed bioinformatics analysis revealed 61 dysregulated enzymes related to metabolic and catabolic pathways linked to tumor invasion. Through this analysis, we identified 49 metabolic and catabolic pathways related to tumor growth. Conclusions: Altogether, data shed light on the metabolic pathways involved in tumors. This is very important for understanding the metabolism of EC and for the development of new therapies.
PXD057086	39857736	Proteomic Characterization of Liver Cancer Cells Treated with Clinical Targeted Drugs for Hepatocellular Carcinoma. 	Proteomic analysis of liver cancer under drug treatment	Proteomic analysis, liver cancer under drug treatment	Background/Objectives: Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) remains a significant global health concern, primarily due to the limited efficacy of targeted therapies, which are often compromised by drug resistance and adverse side effects. Methods: In this study, we utilized a Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomic approach to analyze global protein expression and serine/threonine/tyrosine (S/T/Y) phosphorylation modifications in HepG2 cells following treatment with three clinically relevant hepatocellular carcinoma-targeted agents: apatinib, regorafenib, and lenvatinib. Results: Utilizing KEGG pathway enrichment analysis, biological process enrichment analysis, and protein interaction network analysis, we elucidated the common and specific metabolic pathways, biological processes, and protein interaction regulatory networks influenced by three liver cancer therapeutics. The study additionally proposed potential combinational treatment strategies, highlighting a possible synergistic interaction between HCC-targeted drugs and the DNA methyltransferase inhibitor. Furthermore, through the integration of clinical phosphorylation site data, we identified several phosphorylation sites that exhibited higher abundance in tumor tissues compared to adjacent non-tumor tissues. These sites were associated with poor prognosis and elevated functional scores. Conclusions: In summary, this study conducted an in-depth analysis of the molecular alterations in proteins and phosphorylation modifications induced by clinical HCC-targeted drugs, predicting drug combination strategies and therapeutic targets.
PXD057671	39858409	Integrated Proteomic and Metabolomic Analysis of Muscle Atrophy Induced by Hindlimb Unloading. 	Integrated Proteomic and Metabolomic Analysis of Muscle Atrophy Induced by Hindlimb Unloading	Hindlimb unloading, Integrated analysis, Metabolomics, Muscle atrophy	Skeletal muscle atrophy, which is induced by factors such as disuse, spaceflight, certain medications, neurological disorders, and malnutrition, is a global health issue that lacks effective treatment. Hindlimb unloading is a commonly used model of muscle atrophy. However, the underlying mechanism of muscle atrophy induced by hindlimb unloading remains unclear, particularly from the perspective of the myocyte proteome and metabolism. We first used mass spectrometry for proteomic sequencing and untargeted metabolomics to analyze soleus muscle changes in rats with hindlimb unloading. The study found 1052 proteins and 377 metabolites (with the MS2 name) that were differentially expressed between the hindlimb unloading group and the control group. Proteins like ACTN3, MYH4, MYBPC2, and MYOZ1, typically found in fast-twitch muscles, were upregulated, along with metabolism-related proteins GLUL, GSTM4, and NDUFS4. Metabolites arachidylcarnitine and 7,8-dihydrobiopterin, as well as pathways like histidine, taurine, and hypotaurine metabolism, were linked to muscle atrophy. Protein and metabolism joint analyses revealed that some pathways, such as glutathione metabolism, ferroptosis, and lysosome pathways, were likely to be involved in soleus atrophy. In this study, we have applied integrated deep proteomic and metabolomic analyses. The upregulation of proteins that are expressed in fast-twitch fibers indicates the conversion of slow-twitch fibers to fast-twitch fibers under hindlimb unloading. In addition, some differentially abundant metabolites and pathways revealed the important role of metabolism in muscle atrophy of the soleus. As shown in the graphical abstract, our study provides insights into the pathogenesis and treatment of muscle atrophy that results from unloading by integrating proteomics and metabolomics of the soleus muscles.
PXD046113	39858454	Urinary Proteome and Exosome Analysis Protocol for the Discovery of Respiratory Diseases Biomarkers. 	Analysis of the urine proteome for biomarker discovery.	Biomarkers, Urine	This study aims to develop a protocol for respiratory disease-associated biomarker discovery by combining urine proteome studies with urinary exosome components analysis (i.e., miRNAs). To achieve this, urine was DTT treated to decrease uromodulin, then concentrated and ultracentrifuged. Proteomic analyses of exosome-free urine were performed using LC-MS/MS. Simultaneously, miRNA expression from urine exosomes was measured using either RTqPCR (pre-amplification) or nCounter Nanostring (non-amplication) analyses. We detected 548 different proteins in exosome-free urine samples (N = 5) with high confidence (FDR < 1%), many of them being expressed in different non-renal tissues. Specifically, lung-related proteins were overrepresented (Fold enrichment = 1.31; FDR = 0.0335) compared to whole human proteome, and 10-15% were already described as protein biomarkers for several pulmonary diseases. Urine proteins identified belong to several functional categories important in respiratory pathology. We could confirm the expression of miRNAs previously connected to respiratory diseases (i.e., miR-16-5p, miR-21-5p, miR-146a-5p, and miR-215-5p) in urine exosomes by RTqPCR. Finally, we detected 333 miRNAs using Nanostring, 15 of them up-regulated in T2(high) asthma (N = 4) compared to T2(low) asthma (N = 4) and healthy subjects (N = 4). Therefore, this protocol combining the urinary proteome (exosome free) with the study of urinary exosome components (i.e., miRNAs) holds great potential for molecular biomarker discovery of non-renal and particularly respiratory pathologies.
PXD058913	39858881	Comprehensive Analysis of the Proteome of S. cerevisiae Wild-Type and pdr5Delta Cells in Response to Bisphenol A (BPA) Exposure. 	Comprehensive analysis of the proteome of S. cerevisiae wild-type and pdr5 cells in response to Bisphenol A (BPA) exposure	Bisphenol A (BPA), S. cerevisiae, Stress, TMT proteomics	Bisphenol A, an endocrine-disrupting compound, is widely used in the industrial production of plastic products. Despite increasing concerns about its harmful effects on human health, animals, and the environment, the use of BPA has been banned only in infant products, and its effects on cellular processes are not fully understood. To investigate the impact of BPA on eukaryotic cells, we analyzed the proteome changes of wild-type and PDR5-deleted S. cerevisiae strains exposed to different doses of BPA using sample multiplexing-based proteomics. We found that the ABC multidrug transporter Pdr5 plays an important role in protecting yeast cells from BPA toxicity, with its absence significantly sensitizing cells to BPA. BPA inhibited yeast growth in a dose-dependent manner, with a more pronounced effect in PDR5-deleted cells. Proteomic analysis revealed that BPA induces widespread dose-dependent changes in protein abundance, including the upregulation of metabolic pathways such as arginine biosynthesis and the downregulation of mitochondrial proteins. Additionally, we observed markers of cellular stress induced by BPA by identifying multiple stress-induced proteins that were upregulated by this compound. As cellular processes affected by BPA have been shown to be evolutionarily conserved, these insights can advance our understanding of BPA's cellular impact and its broader effects on human health.
PXD057391	39859242	Proteomic Profiling of Extracellular Vesicles in Inflammatory Bowel Diseases. 	PROTEOMIC PROFILING OF EXTRACELLULAR VESICLES IN INFLAMMATORY BOWEL DISEASES	Crohn's disease, extracellular vesicles, proteomics., ulcerative colitis	The proteomic analysis of serum extracellular vesicles (EVs) could be a useful tool for studying the pathophysiology of Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), as well as for biomarker discovery. To characterize the proteomic composition of serum EVs in patients with CD and UC to identify biomarkers and molecular pathways associated with pathogenesis and activity. Methods: Serum EVs were enriched and analyzed in patients with quiescent CD, active CD (aCD), quiescent UC, active UC (aUC), and healthy controls (HCs) (n = 30 per group). All groups were matched for age and sex. Disease activity was assessed by ileocolonoscopy and categorized based on the SES-CD (CD) and the endoscopic sub-score of the Mayo Score (UC). EVs were enriched by ul-tracentrifugation, and their size and concentration were determined by nanoparticle tracking analysis. The expression of CD63, CD81, and CD9 was determined using West-ern blotting. Proteomic analysis was performed by label-free nano-LC MS/MS. A total of 324 proteins were identified; 60 showed differential abundance in CD-HC, 34 in UC-HC, and 21 in CD-UC. Regarding disease activity, the abundance of 58 and 32 proteins was altered in aCD-HC and aUC-HC, respectively. Functional analyses revealed that proteins associated with aCD were involved in immune regulation, whereas those linked to aUC were enriched in oxidative stress. We have identified expressed proteins between EVs from patients with CD and UC, depending on the presence of disease, the disease type, and the disease activity. These proteins are potential candidates as disease biomarkers and open new research avenues to better understand these conditions.
PXD042066	39859350	Deciphering the Proteome and Phosphoproteome of Peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) Pegs Penetrating into the Soil. 	4D Label-free phosphorylated proteome of 6 peanut samples	peanutPost-translational modification	Peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.) is one of the most important crops for oil and protein production. The unique characteristic of peanut is geocarpy, which means that it blooms aerially and the peanut gynophores (pegs) penetrate into the soil, driving the fruit underground. In order to fully understand this phenomenon, we investigated the dynamic proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of the pegs aerially and underground in this study. A total of 6859 proteins and 4142 unique phosphoproteins with 10,070 phosphosites were identified. The data were validated and quantified using samples randomly selected from arial pegs (APs) and underground pegs (UPs) by parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). Function analyses of differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) and differentially regulated phosphoproteins (DRPPs) exhibited that they were mainly related to stress response, photosynthesis, and substance metabolism. Once the pegs successfully entered the soil, disease-resistant and stress response proteins, such as glutathione S-transferase, peroxidase, and cytochrome P450, significantly increased in the UP samples in order to adapt to the new soil environment. The increased abundance of photosynthesis-associated proteins in the UP samples provided more abundant photosynthetic products, which provided the preparation for subsequent pod development. Phosphoproteomics reveals the regulatory network of the synthesis of nutrients such as starch, protein, and fatty acid (FA). These results provide new insights into the mechanism, indicating that after the pegs are inserted into the soil, phosphorylation is involved in the rapid elongation of the pegs, accompanied by supplying energy for pod development and preparing for the synthesis of metabolites during pod development following mechanical stimulation and darkness.
PXD057410	39863586	CHD6 has poly(ADP-ribose)- and DNA-binding domains and regulates PARP1/2-trapping inhibitor sensitivity via abasic site repair. 	Affinity purification of HA-tagged Chromodomain helicase DNA-binding protein 6 in HEK293T cells	AP-MS, Cells, Overexpression, RIME	To tolerate oxidative stress, cells enable DNA repair responses often sensitive to poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR) polymerase 1 and 2 (PARP1/2) inhibition-an intervention effective against cancers lacking BRCA1/2. Here, we demonstrate that mutating the CHD6 chromatin remodeler sensitizes cells to PARP1/2 inhibitors in a manner distinct from BRCA1, and that CHD6 recruitment to DNA damage requires cooperation between PAR- and DNA-binding domains essential for nucleosome sliding activity. CHD6 displays direct PAR-binding, interacts with PARP-1 and other PAR-associated proteins, and combined DNA- and PAR-binding loss eliminates CHD6 relocalization to DNA damage. While CHD6 loss does not impair RAD51 foci formation or DNA double-strand break repair, it causes sensitivity to replication stress, and PARP1/2-trapping or Pol zeta inhibitor-induced gammaH2AX foci accumulation in S-phase. DNA repair pathway screening reveals that CHD6 loss elicits insufficiency in apurinic-apyrimidinic endonuclease (APEX1) activity and genomic abasic site accumulation. We reveal APEX1-linked roles for CHD6 important for understanding PARP1/2-trapping inhibitor sensitivity.
PXD056191	39863789	Proteomic analysis of Trichoderma harzianum secretome and their role in the biosynthesis of zinc/iron oxide nanoparticles. 	Proteomic approach for the green synthesis of nanoparticles by Trichoderma harzianum	Trichoderma, fungal filtrate, green oxide nanoparticles, oxidoreduction, secretome	The fungal green synthesis of nanoparticles (NPs) has gained great interest since it is a cost-effective and easy handling method. The process is simple because fungi secrete metabolites and proteins capable of reducing metal salts in aqueous solution, however the mechanism remains largely unknown. The aim of this study was to analyze the secretome of a Trichoderma harzianum strain during the mycobiosynthesis process of zinc and iron nanoparticles. Different profiles of proteins secreted by the fungus grown in the culture media or in the aqueous filtrate were observed through SDS-PAGE and LC-MS/MS analysis identifying 99 and 304 proteins, respectively. Particularly, in the aqueous filtrate proteins of metabolic processes and stress response mainly oxidoreductases, were identified. Successfully, ZnO and FeO NPs were synthesized and characterized by transmission electron microscopy, energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy, dynamic light scattering, thermogravimetric, and FTIR analysis. FTIR revealed organic compounds in nanoparticles acting as probably capping agents. This research is the first report in which a proteomic analysis identifies multiple enzymes involved in the biogenic process of NP biosynthesis from T. harzianum, and its role is clearly demonstrated by the formation of zincite and magnetite nanoparticles.
PXD050291	39865094	Standard operating procedure combined with comprehensive quality control system for multiple LC-MS platforms urinary proteomics. 	Standard operating procedure combined with comprehensive quality control system to enable large-scale urinary proteomics across multiple LC-MS platforms for precision medicine	Multiple LC-MS platforms, Urinary proteomics	Urinary proteomics is emerging as a potent tool for detecting sensitive and non-invasive biomarkers. At present, the comparability of urinary proteomics data across diverse liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) platforms remains an area that requires investigation. In this study, we conduct a comprehensive evaluation of urinary proteome across multiple LC-MS platforms. To systematically analyze and assess the quality of large-scale urinary proteomics data, we develop a comprehensive quality control (QC) system named MSCohort, which extracted 81 metrics for individual experiment and the whole cohort quality evaluation. Additionally, we present a standard operating procedure (SOP) for high-throughput urinary proteome analysis based on MSCohort QC system. Our study involves 20 LC-MS platforms and reveals that, when combined with a comprehensive QC system and a unified SOP, the data generated by data-independent acquisition (DIA) workflow in urine QC samples exhibit high robustness, sensitivity, and reproducibility across multiple LC-MS platforms. Furthermore, we apply this SOP to hybrid benchmarking samples and clinical colorectal cancer (CRC) urinary proteome including 527 experiments. Across three different LC-MS platforms, the analyses report high quantitative reproducibility and consistent disease patterns. This work lays the groundwork for large-scale clinical urinary proteomics studies spanning multiple platforms, paving the way for precision medicine research.
PXD050694	39865125	Label-free proteomic analysis of Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy showed decreased sarcomere proteins and increased ubiquitination-related proteins. 	Proteomic characterization of the molecular signature of congenital myopathies	Becker muscular dystrophy, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, biomarkers	Muscular dystrophies (MD) are a group of hereditary diseases marked by progressive muscle loss, leading to weakness and degeneration of skeletal muscles. These conditions often result from structural defects in the Dystrophin-Glycoprotein Complex (DGC), as seen in Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD) and Becker Muscular Dystrophy (BMD). Since MDs currently have no cure, research has focused on identifying potential therapeutic targets to improve patients' quality of life. In this study, skeletal muscle tissue samples from DMD and BMD patients, as well as non-dystrophic controls, were analyzed using label-free mass spectrometry (MS/MS) to characterize the proteomic profile of these conditions and identify biomarkers for differential diagnosis. In-silico analysis revealed that dystrophic muscle tissues are linked to biological processes related to cellular energy metabolism, including oxidation of organic compounds, energy production, and cellular respiration. Enrichment of functions associated with cell structure and RNA binding was also observed, including cytoskeletal protein binding and RNA binding. The human phenotypes most related to the proteomic signature were abnormal circulating metabolites, muscle physiology, and weakness. Quantitative analysis identified significant changes in proteins associated with sarcomere organization and protein ubiquitination, such as myomesin, myozenin, and E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase rififylin, suggesting these as potential therapeutic targets.
PXD040180	39866095	Expression of spider silk protein in tobacco improves drought tolerance with minimal effects on its mechanotype. 	Expression of spider silk in tobacco improves drought tolerance with minimal effects on its mechanotype	ABA, Spider silk, drought tolerance, glycine-rich, tensile strength	Spider silk, especially dragline silk from golden silk spiders (Trichonephila clavipes), is an excellent natural material with remarkable mechanical properties. Many studies have focused on the use of plants as biofactories for the production of recombinant spider silk. However, the effects of this material on the mechanical properties or physiology of transgenic plants remain poorly understood. Since glycine-rich proteins play key roles in plants, we evaluated the effects of a glycine-rich spider silk protein on plant mechanical properties (mechanotype) and physiology. We generated tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum) plants producing a nucleus- or plastid-encoded partial component of dragline silk, MaSp1 (major ampullate spidroin-1; MaSp1-tobacco), containing six repetitive glycine-rich and polyalanine tandem domains. MaSp1 accumulation had minimal effect on leaf mechanical properties, but improved drought tolerance. Transcriptome analysis of drought-stressed MaSp1-tobacco revealed the upregulation of genes involved in stress response, antioxidant activity, cellular metabolism and homeostasis, and phenylpropanoid biosynthesis. The effects of drought treatment differed between the nucleus- and the plastid-encoded MaSp1-tobacco, with the latter showing a stronger transcriptomic response and a higher total antioxidant status (TAS). Well-watered MaSp1-tobacco displayed elevated levels of the stress phytohormone ABA, leading to stomatal closure, reduced water loss, activation of stress response, and increased TAS. We show that the moderately enhanced ABA content in these plants plays a pivotal role in drought tolerance, alongside, ABA priming, which causes overall adjustments in multiple drought tolerance mechanisms. Thus, our findings highlight the potential of utilizing glycine-rich spider silk proteins to enhance plant resilience to drought.
PXD059278	39868331	Quorum sensing mediates morphology and motility transitions in the model archaeon Haloferax volcanii. 	Quantitative analysis of proteomic changes induced by potential quorum sensing in Haloferax volcanii	Archaea, Archaeal Proteome Project, Haloferax volcanii, Ursgal, cell shape, label-free quantification, quorum sensing	Quorum sensing (QS) is a mechanism of intercellular communication that enables microbes to alter gene expression and adapt to the environment. This cell-cell signaling is necessary for intra- and interspecies behaviors such as virulence and biofilm formation. While QS has been extensively studied in bacteria, little is known about cell-cell communication in archaea. Here we established an archaeal model system to study QS. We showed that for Haloferax volcanii , the transition from motile rods to non-motile disks is dependent on a possibly novel, secreted small molecule present in cell-free conditioned medium (CM). Moreover, we determined that this putative QS molecule fails to induce the morphology transition in mutants lacking the regulatory factors, DdfA and CirA. Using quantitative proteomics of wild-type cells, we detected significant differential abundances of 236 proteins in the presence of CM. Conversely, in the Delta ddfA mutant, addition of CM resulted in only 110 proteins of significant differential abundances. These results confirm that DdfA is involved in CM-dependent regulation. CirA, along with other proteins involved in morphology and swimming motility transitions, is among the proteins regulated by DdfA. These discoveries significantly advance our understanding of microbial communication within archaeal species.
PXD053436	39868462	Breast Cancer-Derived Extracellular Vesicles Modulate the Cytoplasmic and Cytoskeletal Dynamics of Blood-Brain Barrier Endothelial Cells. 	Breast cancer-derived extracellular vesicles modulate the cytoplasmic metabolism and cytoskeletal mechanics of blood-brain barrier endothelial cells	Extracellular vesicles, blood-brain barrier, brain metastasis, breast cancer, exosomes, microvesicles, pre-metastatic niche	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) from brain-seeking breast cancer cells (Br-EVs) breach the blood-brain barrier (BBB) via transcytosis and promote brain metastasis. Here, we defined the mechanisms by which Br-EVs modulate brain endothelial cell (BEC) dynamics to facilitate their BBB transcytosis. BEC treated with Br-EVs show significant downregulation of Rab11fip2, known to promote vesicle recycling to the plasma membrane and significant upregulation of Rab11fip3 and Rab11fip5, which support structural stability of the endosomal compartment and facilitate vesicle recycling and transcytosis, respectively. Using machine learning and quantitative global proteomic, we identified novel Br-EV-induced changes in BECs morphology, motility, and proteome that correlate with decreased BEC cytoplasm and cytoskeletal organization and dynamics. These results define early steps leading to breast-to-brain metastasis and identify molecules that could serve as targets for therapeutic strategies for brain metastasis.
PXD057721	39868537	Fam170a deficiency causes male infertility by impairing histone-to-protamine exchange during mouse spermiogenesis. 	Fam170a deficiency causes male infertility by impairing histone-to-protamine exchange during mouse spermiogenesis	IP-MS	Chromatin remodeling, which involves the histone-to-protamine exchange process during spermiogenesis, is crucial for sperm nuclear condensation and male fertility. However, the key regulators and underlying molecular mechanisms involved in this process remain largely unexplored. In this study, we discovered that deficiency in the family with sequence similarity 170 member A (Fam170a) led to abnormal sperm nuclear morphology and male infertility in mice, mirroring the observation of very low Fam170a transcription levels in sperm of infertile men with teratozoospermia. Further investigation revealed that Fam170a plays a significant role in the histone-to-protamine chromatin remodeling process. This was evidenced by the earlier core histone removal, accelerated translation and degradation of transition proteins, and reduced protamine incorporation during spermiogenesis in Fam170a-deleted mice. Mechanistically, we found that Fam170a interacts with chromatin remodeling-associated proteins and regulates the transcription of genes related to chromatin remodeling. Notably, Fam170a directly interacts with the deubiquitinating enzyme Usp7 and facilitates its nuclear translocation in elongating sperm, enhancing the deubiquitinating activity of Usp7 on testis-specific histone H2A and H2B variants. Collectively, our findings identify Fam170a as a previously unrecognized key regulator of sperm chromatin remodeling and suggest that histone deubiquitination may play an essential role in the histone-to-protamine exchange process.
PXD053345	39868648	Ring A Cleaving Beta-Diketone Hydrolase Is a Key Enzyme of Steroid Degradation in Anaerobic Bacteria. 	Ring A cleaving beta-diketon hydrolase is a key enzyme of steroid degradation in anaerobic bacteria	Hydrolase, LC-MS, Steroid degradation, Sterolibacterium denitrificans	Bacterial degradation of ubiquitous and persistent steroids such as steroid hormones is important for their removal from the environment. Initial studies of steroid degradation in anaerobic bacteria suggested that ring-cleaving hydrolases are involved in oxygen-independent sterane skeleton degradation. However, the enzymes involved in ring A cleavage of the common intermediate androsta-1,4-diene-3,17-dione have remained unknown. Here, we enriched a ring A hydrolase from cholesterol/nitrate grown Sterolibacterium denitrificans and from Escherichia coli after heterologous expression of its gene. This enzyme specifically cleaves the cyclic 1,3-diketone of the central degradation intermediate, androsta-1,3,17-trione to 1,17-dioxo-2,3-seco-androstan-3-oate (DSAO), a hallmark reaction of anaerobic steroid degradation. The highly conserved ring A hydrolase was identified in all known and many previously unknown steroid-degrading proteobacteria. Using enriched enzymes, we enzymatically produced DSAO from the chemically synthesised androsta-1-en-3,17-dione precursor, allowing the identification of subsequent metabolites involved in ring A degradation. The results obtained suggest the involvement of an additional hydrolase, an aldolase, and a beta-oxidation-like cascade for complete ring A degradation to form the three-ring 5,10-seco-1,2,3,4-tetranorandrosta-5,17-dione. The results identified a key enzyme of anaerobic steroid degradation that may serve as a functional marker for monitoring steroid contaminant degradation at anoxic environmental sites.
PXD044115	39869047	Engineered Immunomodulatory Extracellular Vesicles from Epithelial Cells with the Capacity for Stimulation of Innate and Adaptive Immunity in Cancer and Autoimmunity. 	Engineered immunomodulatory extracellular vesicles derived from epithelial cells acquire capacity for positive and negative T cell co-stimulation in cancer and autoimmunity.	Cancer, Extracellular vesicles, Immune regulation, T cell function	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are generated in all cells. Systemic administration of allogenic EVs derived from epithelial and mesenchymal cells has been shown to be safe, despite carrying an array of functional molecules, including thousands of proteins. To address whether epithelial cell-derived EVs can be modified to acquire the capacity to induce an immune response, we engineered 293T EVs to harbor the immunomodulatory molecules CD80, OX40L, and PD-L1. We demonstrated abundant levels of these proteins in the engineered cells and EVs. Functionally, the engineered EVs efficiently elicited positive and negative costimulation of human and murine T cells. In the setting of cancer and autoimmune hepatitis, the engineered EVs modulated T cell functions and altered disease progression. OX40L EVs also provided enhanced antitumor activity in combination with anti-CTLA-4 in melanoma-bearing mice. In addition, we added multiple immunomodulatory proteins in EVs (EV(mIM)), attempting to elicit an immune response in both lymphoid and myeloid compartments. The EV(mIM) containing CD80, 4-1BBL, CD40L, CD2, and CD32 engaged both T cells and antigen presenting cells (APCs) in melanoma tumors, demonstrating the capacity for EV(mIM) to elicit antitumor activity. Our work provides evidence that EVs can be engineered to induce specific immune responses with translational potential to modulate immune cell functions in pathological settings.
PXD059578	39869796	Chronic stress-induced cholesterol metabolism abnormalities promote ESCC tumorigenesis and predict neoadjuvant therapy response. 	Chronic stress-induced cholesterol metabolism abnormalities promote ESCC tumorigenesis and predict neoadjuvant therapy response	Cholesterol, Chronic stress, Cortisol, ESCC, GCR, HMGB2, LDLR	Recent studies have demonstrated that chronic stress can enhance the development of multiple human diseases, including cancer. However, the role of chronic stress in esophageal carcinogenesis and its underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. This study uncovered that dysregulated cholesterol metabolism significantly promotes esophageal carcinogenesis under chronic stress conditions. Our findings indicate that the persistent elevation of glucocorticoids induced by chronic stress stimulates cholesterol uptake, contributing to esophageal carcinogenesis. The activated glucocorticoid receptor (GCR) enrichment at the promoter region of High Mobility Group Box 2 (HMGB2) facilitates its transcription. As a transcription coactivator, HMGB2 enhances Sterol Regulatory Element Binding Transcription Factor 1 (SREBF1) transcription and regulates cholesterol metabolism through LDL particle uptake into cells via Low Density Lipoprotein Receptor (LDLR). These results emphasize the significant impact of chronic stress on esophageal carcinogenesis and establish cholesterol metabolism disorder as a crucial link between chronic stress and the development of ESCC. The implications suggest that effectively managing chronic stress may serve as a viable strategy for preventing and treating ESCC.
PXD026274	39870302	Integrative multi-omics analysis of autism spectrum disorder reveals unique microbial macromolecules interactions. 	Multi-Omics signature of Autism Spectral Disorder reveals microbial macromolecules	Autism, Meta-genomics, Meta-proteomics, MultiOmics, disorders	INTRODUCTION: Gut microbiota alterations have been implicated in Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD), yet the mechanisms linking these changes to ASD pathophysiology remain unclear. OBJECTIVES: This study utilized a multi-omics approach to uncover mechanisms linking gut microbiota to ASD by examining microbial diversity, bacterial metaproteins, associated metabolic pathways and host proteome. METHODS: The gut microbiota of 30 children with severe ASD and 30 healthy controls was analyzed. Microbial diversity was assessed using 16S rRNA V3 and V4 sequencing. A novel metaproteomics pipeline identified bacterial proteins, while untargeted metabolomics explored altered metabolic pathways. Finally, multi-omics integration was employed to connect macromolecular changes to neurodevelopmental deficits. RESULTS: Children with ASD exhibited significant alterations in gut microbiota, including lower diversity and richness compared to controls. Tyzzerella was uniquely associated with the ASD group. Microbial network analysis revealed rewiring and reduced stability in ASD. Major metaproteins identified were produced by Bifidobacterium and Klebsiella (e.g., xylose isomerase and NADH peroxidase). Metabolomics profiling identified neurotransmitters (e.g., glutamate, DOPAC), lipids, and amino acids capable of crossing the blood-brain barrier, potentially contributing to neurodevelopmental and immune dysregulation. Host proteome analysis revealed altered proteins, including kallikrein (KLK1) and transthyretin (TTR), involved in neuroinflammation and immune regulation. Finally, multi-omics integration supported single-omics findings and reinforced the hypothesis that gut microbiota and their macromolecular products may contribute to ASD-associated symptoms. CONCLUSIONS: The integration of multi-omics data provided critical evidence that alteration in gut microbiota and associated macromolecule production may play a role in ASD-related symptoms and co-morbidities. Key bacterial metaproteins and metabolites were identified as potential contributors to neurological and immune dysregulation in ASD, underscoring possible novel targets for therapeutic intervention.
PXD053250	39871385	The ABC transporter A7 modulates neuroinflammation via NLRP3 inflammasome in Alzheimer's disease mice. 	ABCA7 transporter functional role on Alzheimer's disease onset and progess	: Alzheimer's disease, ABCA7, biomarkers, expression profiles, neurodegeneration, protein identification	BACKGROUND: Specific genetic variants in the ATP-binding cassette transporter A7 locus (ABCA7) are associated with an increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). ABCA7 transports lipids from/across cell membranes, regulates Abeta peptide processing and clearance, and modulates microglial and T-cell functions to maintain immune homeostasis in the brain. During AD pathogenesis, neuroinflammation is one of the key mechanisms involved. Therefore, we wanted to investigate the specific role of ABCA7 in microglial activation via the NLRP3 inflammasome. METHODS: We developed the first humanized, Cre-inducible ABCA7(flx) knock-in mouse model, crossbred it with the APPPS1-21 beta-amyloidosis model, and generated constitutive ABCA7(ko) and microglia Cx3cr1-specific conditional ABCA7(ko) AD mice. The role of ABCA7 was analyzed using histological, biochemical, molecular and mass spectrometry methods. RESULTS: Constitutive knockout of the Abca7 gene in APPPS1 mice increased the levels of Abeta42 and the number of IBA1+ (microglia) and GFAP+ (astrocytes) cells. Changes in the levels of astrocytes and microglia are associated with the activation of the NLRP3 inflammasome and increased levels of proinflammatory cytokines, such as IL1beta and TNFalpha. Interestingly, microglia-specific ABCA7(ko) restored Abeta42 peptide levels and IBA1(+) and GFAP(+) and NLRP3-related gene expression to the original APPPS1 mouse levels. In primary glial cell cultures of APPPS1-hA7(ko) microglia and APPPS1 astrocytes from newborn pups, we observed that conditioned media from LPS-stimulated microglia was able to induce NLRP3 inflammasome expression and proinflammatory cytokine release in astrocytes. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that ABCA7 transporters regulate the communication between microglia and astrocytes through the NLRP3 inflammasome and the release of proinflammatory cytokines. This regulation implicates ABCA7 as a key driver ultimately involved in the persistence of the inflammatory response observed in AD.
PXD055555	39872604	Challenges and opportunities for statistical power and biomarker identification arising from rhythmic variation in proteomics. 	Rhythmic variation in proteomics: challenges and opportunities for statistical power and biomarker identification	Circadian Rhythm DIA QToF Biomarkers	Time-of-day variation in the molecular profile of biofluids and tissues is a well-described phenomenon, but-especially for proteomics-is rarely considered in terms of the challenges this presents to reproducible biomarker identification. We provide a case study analysis of human circadian and ultradian rhythmicity in proteins, including in the complement and coagulation cascades and apolipoproteins, with PLG, CFAH, ZA2G and ITIH2 demonstrated as rhythmic for the first time. We also show that rhythmicity increases the risk of Type II errors due to the reduction in statistical power from increased variance, and that controlling for rhythmic time-of-day variation improves statistical power and reduces the chances of Type II errors. We recommend that best practice in proteomics study design should account for temporal variation and that time of sampling be reported as part of study metadata. These simple steps can mitigate against both false and missed discoveries, as well as improving reproducibility.
PXD056260	39875174	Role of the sarcin-ricin loop of 23S rRNA in biogenesis of the 50S ribosomal subunit. 	Role of the sarcin-ricin loop of 23S rRNA in biogenesis of the 50S ribosomal subunit	50S ribosomal subunit, Escherichia coli	The sarcin-ricin loop (SRL) is one of the most conserved segments of ribosomal RNA (rRNA). Translational GTPases (trGTPases), such as EF-G and EF-Tu and IF2, form contacts with the SRL that are critical for GTP hydrolysis and factor function. Previous studies showed that expression of 23S rRNA lacking the SRL confers a dominant lethal phenotype in E. coli. Isolated DeltaSRL particles were found to be not only inactive in protein synthesis but also incompletely assembled. In particular, block 4 of the subunit, which includes the peptidyl transferase center, remained unfolded. Here, we explore the basis of this assembly defect. We find that 23S rRNA extracted from DeltaSRL subunits can be efficiently reconstituted into 50S subunits, and these reconstituted DeltaSRL particles exhibit full peptidyl transferase activity. We also further characterize DeltaSRL particles purified from cells, using cryo-EM and proteomic methods. These particles lack density for rRNA and r-proteins of block 4, consistent with earlier chemical probing data. Incubation of these particles with excess total r-protein of the large subunit (TP50) fails to restore substantial peptidyl transferase activity. Interestingly, proteomic analysis of control and mutant particles shows an overrepresentation of multiple assembly factors in the DeltaSRL case. We propose that one or more GTPases normally act to release assembly factors, and this activity is blocked in the absence of the SRL.
PXD059953	39875495	A multilayered regulatory network mediated by protein phosphatase 4 controls carbon catabolite repression and de-repression in Magnaporthe oryzae. 	Crf1-FLAG Mass spectrometry-based proteomics data	Crf1-FLAG	Carbon catabolite repression (CCR) and de-repression (CCDR) are critical for fungal development and pathogenicity, yet the underlying regulatory mechanisms remain poorly understood in pathogenic fungi. Here, we identify a serine/threonine protein phosphatase catalytic subunit, Pp4c, as essential for growth, conidiation, virulence, and the utilization of carbohydrates and lipids in Magnaporthe oryzae. We demonstrate that the protein phosphatase 4 complex (Pp4c and Smek1 subunits), the AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) Snf1, and the transcriptional regulators CreA (repressor) and Crf1 (activator) collaboratively regulate the utilization of non-preferred carbon sources. Protein interaction and phosphorylation analyses reveal that under glucose-rich conditions, Snf1 and Smek1 directly regulate the phosphorylation status of CreA and Crf1. In contrast, under L-arabinose-rich conditions, Snf1 indirectly modulates the dephosphorylation of these transcription factors via Pp4c and Smek1. Phosphorylation-mediated activation or inactivation of CreA and Crf1 drives CCR and CCDR, thereby governing the metabolism of carbon sources derived from plant cell walls and contributing to fungal pathogenicity. These findings provide deep insights into the regulation of CCR and CCDR, emphasizing their significance in carbon metabolism and pathogenicity in phytopathogenic fungi.
PXD026293	39875995	Inhibition of NLRP3 enhances pro-apoptotic effects of FLT3 inhibition in AML. 	Inhibition of NLRP3 enhances pro-apoptotic effects of FLT3 inhibition in AML	Acute Myeloid Leukemia, EiF2alpha, NLRP3	FLT3 mutations occur in approximately 25% of all acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients. While several FLT3 inhibitors have received FDA approval, their use is currently limited to combination therapies with chemotherapy, as resistance occurs, and efficacy decreases when the inhibitors are used alone. Given the highly heterogeneous nature of AML, there is an urgent need for novel targeted therapies that address the disease from multiple angles. Recent research has identified the NLRP3 inflammasome as a potential new driver in AML. Here, we investigated the efficacy of different NLRP3 inhibitors in targeting AML cells in vitro. Our findings reveal that NLRP3 inhibition induces cell cycle arrest as well as signs of senescence in multiple AML cell lines. In contrast, NLRP3 inhibition selectively induced apoptosis in FLT3 mutant AML cell lines, but not in FLT3 wild-type AML cells. Moreover, we show that NLRP3 inhibition impairs FLT3 signaling by reducing both FLT3 expression as well as downstream signaling in FLT3 mutant cells. A database analysis revealed a strong positive correlation between FLT3 and NLRP3 in cancer, which was particularly evident in AML patients. Strikingly, the simultaneous inhibition of NLRP3 and FLT3 markedly enhanced apoptosis in FLT3-ITD mutant AML cells, but not in FLT3 wild-type cells. In summary, this study reveals a promising combined therapeutic strategy specifically targeting NLRP3/FLT3-ITD positive AML blasts in vitro, highlighting a potential new avenue for AML treatment.
PXD059860	39876006	NEAT1 regulates BMSCs aging through disruption of FGF2 nuclear transport. 	NEAT1 Regulates BMSCs Aging Through Disruption of FGF2 Nuclear Transport	Aging, BMSCs, FGF2, NEAT1, Nuclear Transport	BACKGROUND: The aging of bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells (BMSCs) impairs bone tissue regeneration, contributing to skeletal disorders. LncRNA NEAT1 is considered as a proliferative inhibitory role during cellular senescence, but the relevant mechanisms remain insufficient. This study aims to elucidate how NEAT1 regulates mitotic proteins during BMSCs aging. METHODS: BMSCs were isolated from alveolar bone of human volunteers aged 26-33 (young) and 66-78 (aged). NEAT1 expression and distribution changes during aging process were observed using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) in young (3 months) and aged (18 months) mice or human BMSCs. Subsequent RNA pulldown and proteomic analyses, along with single-cell analysis, immunofluorescence, RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), and co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP), were conducted to investigate that NEAT1 impairs the nuclear transport of mitotic FGF2 and contributes to BMSCs aging. RESULTS: We reveal that NEAT1 undergoes significant upregulated and shifts from nucleus to cytoplasm in bone marrow and BMSCs during aging process. In which, the expression correlates with nuclear DNA content during karyokinesis, suggesting a link to mitogenic factor. Within NEAT1 knockdown, hallmarks of cellular aging, including senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), p16, and p21, were significantly downregulated. RNA pulldown and proteomic analyses further identify NEAT1 involved in osteoblast differentiation, mitotic cell cycle, and ribosome biogenesis, highlighting its role in maintaining BMSCs differentiation and proliferation. Notably, as an essential growth factor of BMSCs, Fibroblast Growth Factor 2 (FGF2) directly abundant binds to NEAT1 and the sites enriched with nuclear localization motifs. Importantly, NEAT1 decreased the interaction between FGF2 and Karyopherin Subunit Beta 1 (KPNB1), influencing the nuclear transport of mitogenic FGF2. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings position NEAT1 as a critical regulator of mitogenic protein networks that govern BMSC aging. Targeting NEAT1 might offer novel therapeutic strategies to rejuvenate aged BMSCs.
PXD048153	39876710	c-JUN: a chromatin repressor that limits mesoderm differentiation in human pluripotent stem cells. 	c-JUN interacte with NuRD complex to regulate chromatin remodeling	MBD3, NuRD complex, c-JUN, hPSCs	Cell fate determination at the chromatin level is not fully comprehended. Here, we report that c-JUN acts on chromatin loci to limit mesoderm cell fate specification as cells exit pluripotency. Although c-JUN is widely expressed across various cell types in early embryogenesis, it is not essential for maintaining pluripotency. Instead, it functions as a repressor to constrain mesoderm development while having a negligible impact on ectoderm differentiation. c-JUN interacts with MBD3-NuRD complex, which helps maintain chromatin in a low accessibility state at mesoderm-related genes during the differentiation of human pluripotent stem cells into mesoderm. Furthermore, c-JUN specifically inhibits the activation of key mesoderm factors, such as EOMES and GATA4. Knocking out c-JUN or inhibiting it with a JNK inhibitor can alleviate this suppression, promoting mesoderm cell differentiation. Consistently, knockdown of MBD3 enhances mesoderm generation, whereas MBD3 overexpression impedes it. Overexpressing c-JUN redirects differentiation toward a fibroblast-like lineage. Collectively, our findings suggest that c-JUN acts as a chromatin regulator to restrict the mesoderm cell fate.
PXD058328	39876868	Ocular inoculation of toad venom: toxic cataract and proteomic profiling. 	Ocular Inoculation of Toad Venom: Toxic Cataract and Proteomic Profiling	4D label-free quantitative proteomics, Na+/K+-ATPase, Toad venom, toxic cataract, venom inoculation	Purpose: To report a singular case of cataract caused by toad venom inoculation and to scrutinize the pathological mechanisms through proteomic sequencing of the lens specimen. Methods: A young Chinese male presented with progressively deteriorating vision in his right eye subsequent to a history of toad venom inoculation. He was diagnosed with a toxic cataract, and underwent phacoemulsification cataract surgery. Anterior capsule, nucleus, and cortex specimens from the patient (designated as PT_CAP, PT_PHACO, and PT_CTX, respectively) and age-related cataract controls (C_CAP, C_PHACO, and C_CTX, respectively) were collected and subjected to 4D label-free quantitative proteomics. Results: A multitude of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified in the patient's lens compared to those in the controls. Specifically, a total of 204 DEPs were identified in PT_CAP compared to C_CAP, with MYH6, MYL2, MYL3, STAT1, and ANK1 among the foremost regulated DEPs. The DEPs of PT_CAP were principally affiliated with functions including "transportation of small molecules," "regulation of metal ion transport," and "import into cell." A sum of 109 DEPs were delineated in PT_CTX compared to C_CTX, with TPM1 among the top-10 downregulated DEPs. Ninety-five DEPs were pinpointed in PT_PHACO compared to C_PHACO, with hexokinase among the top 10 downregulated DEPs. These proteins were ascertained to be linked with Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity. Conclusion: This study introduced the first documented case of toxic cataract caused by toad venom inoculation. Proteomic sequencing indicated a correlation between cataract and alterations in Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase activity, providing insights for the clinical management of ocular toad venom inoculation in subsequent cases.
PXD059614	39877349	Network pharmacology and multi-omics validation of the Jianpi-Yishen formula in the treatment of chronic kidney disease. 	Network pharmacology and multi-omics validation of the Jianpi-Yishen formula in the treatment of chronic kidney disease	Jianpi-Yishen formula, chronic kidney disease, macrophage Q6 polarization, multi-omics, network pharmacology	Objective: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a major global health problem. In clinical practice, the Chinese patent herbal medicine Jianpi-Yishen (JPYS) formula is commonly used to treat CKD. However, the molecular mechanisms by which JPYS targets and modulates the host immune response remain unclear. Methods: This study utilized network pharmacology, RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), and metabolic analyses using in vivo and in vitro models to investigate the impact of the JPYS formula on inflammation and the immune system. Specifically, the study focused on macrophage polarization and metabolic changes that may slow down the progression of CKD. Results: A total of 14,946 CKD-related targets were identified from the GeneCards and Online Mendelian Inheritance in Man (OMIM) databases through network pharmacology analyses. 227 potential targets of the JPYS formula were predicted using the TCMSP database. Additionally, network diagram demonstrated that 11 targets were associated with macrophage activity. In vivo studies indicated that the JPYS formula could reduce blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine in adenine-induced CKD rats. Furthermore, the formula inhibited inflammatory damage and abnormal macrophage infiltration in this CKD model. RNA-seq, proteomic and metabolic analyses identified the regulation of amino acid metabolism by betaine, specifically referring to glycine, serine, and threonine metabolism, as a key target of the JPYS formula in slowing the progression of CKD. In addition, in vitro studies suggested that JPYS may enhance tryptophan metabolism in M1 macrophage polarization and betaine metabolism in M2 macrophage polarization. Conclusions: The JPYS formula has been shown to have beneficial impact on CKD; a key mechanism is the mitigation of inflammatory damage through the interaction between amino acid metabolism and macrophage polarization. Of specific importance in this context are the roles of tryptophan in M1 polarization and betaine in M2 polarization.
PXD059097	39878654	Adaptive protein synthesis in genetic models of copper deficiency and childhood neurodegeneration. 	Adaptive protein synthesis in genetic models of copper deficiency and childhood neurodegeneration	mTOR, neurodegeneration, tmt	Rare inherited diseases caused by mutations in the copper transporters SLC31A1 (CTR1) or ATP7A induce copper deficiency in the brain, causing seizures and neurodegeneration in infancy through poorly understood mechanisms. Here, we used multiple model systems to characterize the molecular mechanisms by which neuronal cells respond to copper deficiency. Targeted deletion of CTR1 in neuroblastoma cells produced copper deficiency that produced a metabolic shift favoring glycolysis over oxidative phosphorylation. Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of CTR1 KO cells revealed simultaneous upregulation of mTORC1 and S6K signaling and reduced PERK signaling. Patterns of gene and protein expression and pharmacogenomics show increased activation of the mTORC1-S6K pathway as a pro-survival mechanism, ultimately resulting in increased protein synthesis. Spatial transcriptomic profiling of Atp7a(flx/)(Y):: Vil1(Cre/+) mice identified upregulated protein synthesis machinery and mTORC1-S6K pathway genes in copper-deficient Purkinje neurons in the cerebellum. Genetic epistasis experiments in Drosophila demonstrated that copper deficiency dendritic phenotypes in class IV neurons are improved or rescued by increased S6k expression or 4E-BP1 (Thor) RNAi, while epidermis phenotypes are exacerbated by Akt, S6k, or raptor RNAi. Overall, we demonstrate that increased mTORC1-S6K pathway activation and protein synthesis is an adaptive mechanism by which neuronal cells respond to copper deficiency.
PXD052039	39879297	Parasitoid wasp venoms degrade Drosophila imaginal discs for successful parasitism. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of venom gland components of the parasitoid wasp Asobara japonica	parasitoid wasp, venom	Parasitoid wasps, one of the most diverse and species-rich animal groups on Earth, produce venoms that manipulate host development and physiology to exploit resources. However, mechanisms of actions of these venoms remain poorly understood. Here, we discovered that the endoparasitoid wasp, Asobara japonica, induces apoptosis, autophagy, and mitotic arrest in the adult tissue precursors of its host Drosophila larvae. We termed this phenomenon imaginal disc degradation (IDD). A multi-omics approach facilitated identification of two venom proteins of A. japonica necessary for IDD, which is critical for parasitism success. Our study highlights a venom-mediated hijacking strategy of the parasitoid wasp that allows the host larvae to grow, but ultimately prevents their metamorphosis.
PXD054965	39879322	Undocking of an extensive ciliary network induces proteostasis and cell fate switching resulting in severe primary ciliary dyskinesia. 	Human airway - Normal and CCDC39	CCDC39, airway, cilia, lung, pcd	Primary ciliary dyskinesia is a rare monogenic syndrome that is associated with chronic respiratory disease, infertility, and laterality defects. Although more than 50 genes causative of primary ciliary dyskinesia have been identified, variants in the genes encoding coiled-coil domain-containing 39 (CCDC39) and CCDC40 in particular cause severe disease that is not explained by loss of ciliary motility alone. Here, we sought to understand the consequences of these variants on cellular functions beyond impaired motility. We used human cells with pathogenic variants in CCDC39 and CCDC40, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii genetics, cryo-electron microscopy, and proteomics to define perturbations in ciliary assembly and cilia stability, as well as multiple motility-independent pathways. Analysis of proteomics of cilia from patient cells identified that the absence of the axonemal CCDC39/CCDC40 heterodimer resulted in the loss of a network of more than 90 ciliary structural proteins, including 14 that were defined as ciliary address recognition proteins, which provide docking for the missing structures. The absence of the network impaired microtubule architecture, activated cell quality control pathways, switched multiciliated cell fate to mucus-producing cells and resulted in a defective periciliary barrier. In CCDC39 variant cells, these phenotypes were reversed through expression of a normal CCDC39 transgene. These findings indicate that the CCDC39/CCDC40 heterodimer functions as a scaffold to support the assembly of an extensive network of ciliary proteins, whose loss results in both motility-dependent and motility-independent phenotypes that may explain the severity of disease. Gene therapy might be a potential treatment option to be explored in future studies.
PXD042078	39879983	A cis-regulatory element controls expression of histone deacetylase 9 to fine-tune inflammasome-dependent chronic inflammation in atherosclerosis. 	A cis-regulatory element controls HDAC9 expression to fine-tune inflammasome-dependent chronic inflammation	HDAC9, NLRP3, atherosclerosis, inflammasome, inflammation	Common genetic variants in a conserved cis-regulatory element (CRE) at histone deacetylase (HDAC)9 are a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease, including stroke and coronary artery disease. Given the consistency of this association and its proinflammatory properties, we examined the mechanisms whereby HDAC9 regulates vascular inflammation. HDAC9 bound and mediated deacetylation of NLRP3 in the NACHT and LRR domains leading to inflammasome activation and lytic cell death. Targeted deletion of the critical CRE in mice increased Hdac9 expression in myeloid cells to exacerbate inflammasome-dependent chronic inflammation. In human carotid endarterectomy samples, increased HDAC9 expression was associated with atheroprogression and clinical plaque instability. Incorporation of TMP195, a class IIa HDAC inhibitor, into lipoprotein-based nanoparticles to target HDAC9 at the site of myeloid-driven vascular inflammation stabilized atherosclerotic plaques, implying a lower risk of plaque rupture and cardiovascular events. Our findings link HDAC9 to atherogenic inflammation and provide a paradigm for anti-inflammatory therapeutics for atherosclerosis.
PXD058650	39880082	Proteomic diversity in bacteria: Insights and implications for bacterial identification. 	Proteomic diversity in bacteria: Insights and implications for bacterial identification	DatasetType:Proteomics, bacteria, bacterial identification, proteomic map, proteotyping	Mass spectrometry-based proteomics has revolutionized bacterial identification and elucidated many molecular mechanisms underlying bacterial growth, community formation, and drug resistance. However, most research has been focused on a few model bacteria, overlooking bacterial diversity. In this study, we present the most extensive bacterial proteomic resource to date, covering 303 species, 119 genera, and five phyla with over 636,000 unique expressed proteins, confirming the existence of over 38,700 hypothetical proteins. Accessible via the public resource ProteomicsDB, this dataset enables quantitative exploration of proteins within and across species. Additionally, we developed MS2Bac, a bacterial identification algorithm that queries NCBI's bacterial proteome space in two iterations. MS2Bac achieved over 99% species-level and 89% strain-level accuracy, surpassing methods like MALDI-TOF and FTIR, as demonstrated with food-derived bacterial isolates. MS2Bac also effectively identified bacteria in clinical samples, highlighting the potential of MS-based proteomics as a routine diagnostic tool.
PXD044186	39880085	Ciliopathy-associated missense mutations in IFT140 are tolerated by the inherent resilience of the IFT machinery. 	Ciliopathy-associated missense mutations in IFT140 are hypomorphic and have edgetic effects on protein interaction networks	Intraflagellar transport, cilia, ciliopathy, edgetic, hypomorph, missense mutation, protein interaction	Genotype-phenotype correlations of rare diseases are complicated by low patient number, high phenotype variability and compound heterozygosity. Mutations may cause instability of single proteins, and affect protein complex formation or overall robustness of a specific process in a given cell. Ciliopathies offer an interesting case for studying genotype-phenotype correlations as they have a spectrum of severity and include diverse phenotypes depending on different mutations in the same protein. For instance, mutations in the intraflagellar transport protein IFT140 cause a vast spectrum of ciliopathies ranging from isolated retinal dystrophy to severe skeletal abnormalities and multi-organ diseases such as Mainzer-Saldino and Jeune syndrome. Here, the quantitative effects of 23 missense mutations in IFT140, which forms part of the crucial IFT-A complex of the ciliary machinery, were analyzed using affinity purification coupled to mass spectrometry (AP-MS). A subset of 10 mutations led to a significant and domain-specific reduction in IFT140-IFT-A complex interaction indicating complex formation issues and potentially hampering its molecular function. Knockout of IFT140 led to loss of cilia, as shown before. However, phenotypically only mild effects concerning cilia assembly were observed for two out of four tested IFT140 missense mutations. Therefore, our results demonstrate the utility of AP-MS in discerning pathogenic MMs from polymorphisms, and we postulate that reduced function is tolerated by the evolutionarily highly conserved IFT-A system.
PXD052173	39880844	VSTM2L protects prostate cancer cells against ferroptosis via inhibiting VDAC1 oligomerization and maintaining mitochondria homeostasis. 	VSTM2L protects prostate cancer cells against ferroptosis via inhibiting VDAC1 oligomerization and maintaining mitochondria homeostasis		Ferroptosis is a form of iron-dependent programmed cell death, which is distinct from apoptosis, necrosis, and autophagy. Mitochondria play a critical role in initiating and amplifying ferroptosis in cancer cells. Voltage-Dependent Anion Channel 1 (VDAC1) embedded in the mitochondrial outer membrane, exerts roles in regulation of ferroptosis. However, the mechanisms of VDAC1 oligomerization in regulating ferroptosis are not well elucidated. Here, we identify that a VDAC1 binding protein V-Set and Transmembrane Domain Containing 2 Like (VSTM2L), mainly localized to mitochondria, is positively associated with prostate cancer (PCa) progression, and a key regulator of ferroptosis. Moreover, VSTM2L knockdown in PCa cells enhances the sensitivity of RSL3-induced ferroptosis. Mechanistically, VSTM2L forms complex with VDAC1 and hexokinase 2 (HK2), enhancing their binding affinity and preventing VDAC1 oligomerization, thereby inhibiting ferroptosis and maintaining mitochondria homeostasis in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, our findings reveal a pivotal role for mitochondria-localized VSTM2L in driving ferroptosis resistance and highlight its potential as a ferroptosis-inducing therapeutic target for the treatment of PCa.
PXD053005	39880862	Modulation of biological activities in adipose derived stem cells by histone deacetylation. 	Modulation of biological activities in adipose derived stem cells by histone deacetylation	Histone deacetylase inhibitor, Suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, Vorinostat, adipose derived stem cells, differentiation, epigenetic, epigenetic modifier	Difficult-to-heal wounds management accounts for about 4% of healthcare costs, highlighting the need for innovative solutions. Extracellular signals drive cell proliferation during tissue regeneration, while epigenetic mechanisms regulate stem cell homeostasis, differentiation, and skin repair. Exploring epigenetic regulation in adipose-derived stem cells (ADSCs) holds promise for improving skin injury treatments. We investigated the effects of histone deacetylase inhibitor (SAHA) on ADSCs to better understand its cellular and molecular impacts. ADSCs were treated with SAHA for 72 h, showing no change in cell viability at the studied concentrations. However, the expression of histone deacetylase decreased at 1000 nM, while the cell proliferation marker Ki-67 increased after SAHA treatment, as confirmed by immunofluorescence. CCND1 gene expression increased, whereas protein expression of the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) decreased. Cell cycle analysis showed an increase in G2 phase in SAHA-treated cells. Microarray analysis revealed 74 upregulated and 40 downregulated differentially expressed genes, including upregulation of P53 targets, CDKN1A and MDM2. Proteomic analysis identified 631 upregulated and 823 downregulated proteins compared to the vehicle. Pathway enrichment analysis showed cell cycle, ATP-dependent chromatin remodeling and DNA processes were among the affected pathways. This study suggests SAHA modulates ADSCs' biological processes, highlighting its potential for skin regeneration.
PXD052299	39881208	SLC25A1 and ACLY maintain cytosolic acetyl-CoA and regulate ferroptosis susceptibility via FSP1 acetylation. 	Protein expression levels between the control shRNA group and the SLC25A1 shRNA group	SLC25A1	Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent form of programmed cell death characterized by excessive lipid hydroperoxides accumulation, emerges as a promising target in cancer therapy. Among the solute carrier (SLC) superfamily, the cystine/glutamate transporter system antiporter components SLC3A2 and SLC7A11 are known to regulate ferroptosis by facilitating cystine import for ferroptosis inhibition. However, the contribution of additional SLC superfamily members to ferroptosis remains poorly understood. Here, we use a targeted CRISPR-Cas9 screen of the SLC superfamily to identify SLC25A1 as a critical ferroptosis regulator in human cancer cells. SLC25A1 drives citrate export from the mitochondria to the cytosol, where it fuels acetyl-CoA synthesis by ATP citrate lyase (ACLY). This acetyl-CoA supply sustains FSP1 acetylation and prevents its degradation by the proteasome via K29-linked ubiquitin chains. K168 is the primary site of FSP1 acetylation and deacetylation by KAT2B and HDAC3, respectively. Pharmacological inhibition of SLC25A1 and ACLY significantly enhances cancer cell susceptibility to ferroptosis both in vitro and in vivo. Targeting the SLC25A1-ACLY axis is therefore a potential therapeutic strategy for ferroptosis-targeted cancer intervention.
PXD056800	39881347	Depot-specific acetylation profiles of adipose tissues-therapeutic targets for metabolically unhealthy obesity. 	Integrative Proteome and Lysine Acetylation Analyses of Subcutaneous and Visceral Adipose Tissues in People with Metabolically Unhealthy Obesity	Adipose tissue, Lysine acetylation, Metabolic syndrome, Metabolically unhealthy obesity, Obesity	BACKGROUND: Adipose tissue plays a critical role in the development of metabolically unhealthy obesity (MUO), with distinct adipose depots demonstrating functional differences. This study aimed to investigate the unique characteristics of subcutaneous (SA) and visceral adipose tissue (VA) in MUO. METHODS: Paired omental VA and abdominal SA samples were obtained from four male patients with MUO and subjected to Four-Dimensional Data Independent Acquisition (4D-DIA) proteomic and lysine acetylation (Kac) analyses. Differentially expressed proteins and differentially modified Kac sites were identified, quantified, integrated, and subjected to functional analyses. Overlap analysis was performed between our datasets and previously published proteomic datasets in obesity populations. Additionally, differentially modified Kac sites on histones and their related enzymes were identified. RESULTS: A total of 281 differentially expressed proteins and 147 differentially modified Kac sites were identified among 6,201 quantifiable proteins and 1,826 quantifiable Kac sites. Upregulated proteins and acetylated proteins in SA were predominantly enriched in extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling pathways, while those in VA were enriched in energy metabolism and disease-related pathways. Differential ECM remodeling adaptability between SA and VA was primarily mediated by fibranexin and integrin, with COL6A1, COL6A3, and ITGA5 identified as differentially acetylated proteins overlapping between our dataset and previous studies. Potential unique proteins in MUO were enriched in inflammatory processes and closely associated with acetylated modifications. Specific differentially acetylated sites on histones, including H1.2K63, H1XK90, and H3.7K80, showed increased acetylation in VA, with N-deacetylase/N-sulfotransferase 1 (NDST1) identified as the associated enzyme. CONCLUSIONS: This study provided a comprehensive dataset on the proteomic and acetylomic profiles of SA and VA, laying a foundation for investigating the pathogenesis and potential therapeutic approaches for MUO. SA was characterized by pronounced ECM remodeling regulation, while VA exhibited poorer adaptability and more prominent metabolic functional changes. These differential processes were influenced not only by protein expression levels but, more importantly, by acetylated modifications. The regulation of acetylated modifications in white adipose tissue (WAT), particularly for the differential Kac sites enriched in ECM remodeling and inflammation-related pathways, may serve as an effective intervention strategy for MUO, with NDST1 emerging as a promising therapeutic target. TRIAL REGISTRATION: Not applicable since this study did not involve clinical intervention.
PXD053814	39882022	Dehydroamino acids and their crosslinks in Alzheimer's disease aggregates. 	Discovery of dehydroamino acids and their crosslinks in Alzheimer's Disease	Alzheimers Disease, CRMP2, Dehydroamino acids, GAPDH, Tau, crosslinks	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the accumulation of protein aggregates, which are thought to be influenced by posttranslational modifications (PTMs). Dehydroamino acids (DHAAs) are rarely observed PTMs that contain an electrophilic alkene capable of forming protein-protein crosslinks, which may lead to protein aggregation. We report here the discovery of DHAAs in the protein aggregates from AD, constituting an unknown and previously unsuspected source of extensive proteomic complexity. We used mass spectrometry-based proteomics to discover 404 sites of DHAA formation in 171 proteins from protein aggregate-enriched human brain samples, 6-fold more sites than observed in the soluble protein fractions. The DHAA modifications are observed both directly and in the form of conjugates after reacting with abundant cellular nucleophiles or crosslinking to nucleophilic amino acid residues. We report 11 such crosslinks, including three in the Tau protein, which are 10-fold more abundant in AD samples compared with age-matched controls. Many of the proteins found to contain DHAAs and their conjugates are involved in protein aggregation or pathways dysregulated in AD. DHAAs are prevalent modifications in the AD brain proteome and give rise to protein crosslinks that may contribute to protein aggregation.
PXD006763	39882546	Construction of functional tissue-engineered microvasculatures using circulating fibrocytes as mural cells. 	Construction of functional tissue-engineered microvasculatures by using circulating fibrocytes as mural cells	circulating fibrocyte, tissue-engineered microvasculatures	Mural cells are essential for maintaining the proper functions of microvasculatures. However, a key challenge of microvascular tissue engineering is identifying a cellular source for mural cells. We showed that in vitro, circulating fibrocytes (CFs) can (1) shear and stabilize the microvasculatures formed by vascular endothelial cells (VECs) in a collagen gel, (2) form gap junctions with VECs and (3) induce basement membrane formation. CFs transplanted into nude mice along with VECs in either collagen gel or Matrigel exhibited activities similar to those mentioned above, that is, sheathing microvasculatures formed by VECs, inducing basement membrane formation and facilitating the connection of the engineered microvasculatures with the host circulation. Interestingly, the behaviour of CFs also differs from that of human brain vascular pericytes (HBVPs) in vitro, which often infiltrate the lumen of capillary-like structures in a mosaic pattern, actively proliferate and exhibit lower endocytosis and migration capacities. We concluded that CFs are a suitable cellular source for mural cells in the construction of tissue-engineered microvasculatures.
PXD058113	39883012	RNA G-quadruplex structure-based PROTACs for targeted DHX36 protein degradation and gene activity modulation in mammalian cells. 	Proteomic analysis of rG4_A selectively degraded proteins through the proteasome	RNA, RNA binding proteins, protein degradation	RNA G-quadruplexes (rG4s) are non-canonical secondary nucleic acid structures found in the transcriptome. They play crucial roles in gene regulation by interacting with G4-binding proteins (G4BPs) in cells. rG4-G4BP complexes have been associated with human diseases, making them important targets for drug development. Generating innovative tools to disrupt rG4-G4BP interactions will provide a unique opportunity to explore new biological mechanisms and potentially treat related diseases. Here, we have rationally designed and developed a series of rG4-based proteolytic targeting chimeras (rG4-PROTACs) aimed at degrading G4BPs, such as DHX36, a specific G4BP that regulates gene expression by binding to and unraveling rG4 structures in messenger RNAs (mRNAs). Our comprehensive data and systematic analysis reveals that rG4-PROTACs predominantly and selectively degrade DHX36 through a proteosome-dependent mechanism, which promotes the formation of the rG4 structure in mRNA, leading to the translation inhibition of rG4-containing transcripts. Notably, rG4-PROTACs inhibit rG4-mediated APP protein expression, and impact the proliferative capacity of skeletal muscle stem cells by negatively regulating Gnai2 protein expression. In summary, rG4-PROTACs provide a new avenue to understand rG4-G4BP interactions and the biological implications of dysregulated G4BPs, promoting the development of PROTACs technology based on the non-canonical structure of nucleic acids.
PXD045381	39883374	Thermal proteome profiling unveils protein targets of deoxycholic acid in living neuronal cells. 	Thermal Proteome Profiling and Gut Microbiota-derived Bile Acids	Itraq, Proteome Profiling	Bile acids, synthesized in the liver and modified by the gut microbiota, play vital roles in various physiological processes. The dysregulation of bile acids has been extensively documented in patients with neurodegenerative diseases. However, limited attention has been given to the protein targets associated with microbiota-derived bile acids in neurological diseases. To address this knowledge gap, we conducted comprehensive thermal proteomic analyses to elucidate and comprehend the protein targets affected by microbiota-derived bile acids. Our investigation identified sixty-five unique proteins in SH-SY5Y neuronal cells as potential targets of deoxycholic acid (DCA), a primary component of the bile acid pool originating from the gut microbiota. Notably, Nicastrin and Casein kinase 1 epsilon stood out among these proteins. We found that DCA, through its interaction with the Nicastrin subunit of gamma-secretase, significantly contributed to the formation of amyloid beta, a key hallmark in the pathology of neurodegenerative diseases. In summary, our findings provide crucial insights into the intricate interplay between microbiota-derived bile acids and the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases, thereby shedding light on potential therapeutic targets for neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD049242	39883687	Analysis of glutamate-dependent mechanism and optimization of fermentation conditions for poly-gamma-glutamic acid production by Bacillus subtilis SCP017-03. 	Bacillus subtilis, sediment, diaPASEF	Bacillus subtilis, diaPASEF, sediment	Poly-gamma-glutamic acid (gamma-PGA) is mainly synthesized by glutamate-dependent strains in the manufacturing industry. Therefore, understanding glutamate-dependent mechanisms is imperative. In this study, we first systematically analyzed the response of Bacillus subtilis SCP017-03 to glutamate addition by comparing transcriptomics and proteomics. The introduction of glutamate substantially altered gene expression within the central metabolic pathway of cellular carbon. Most genes in the pentose phosphate pathway (PPP), tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, and energy-consuming phase of the glycolysis pathway (EMP) were down-regulated, whereas those in the energy-producing phase of glycolysis and those responsible for gamma-PGA synthesis were up-regulated. Based on these findings, the fermentation conditions were optimized, and gamma-PGA production was improved by incorporating oxygen carriers. In a batch-fed fermentor with glucose, the gamma-PGA production reached 95.2 g/L, demonstrating its industrial production potential. This study not only elucidated the glutamate dependence mechanism of Bacillus subtilis but also identified a promising metabolic target for further enhancing gamma-PGA production.
PXD054970	39884247	Metabolic and molecular Characterization, following dietary exposure to DINCH, Reveals new Implications for its role as a Metabolism-Disrupting chemical. 	Tissue proteome of visceral, subcutaneous and brown adipose as well as liver tissues in an obese mouse model after dietary exposure to the emerging phthalate substitute DINCH	DINCH, Tissue proteomics, obesity	Plastic materials are ubiquitous, leading to constant human exposure to plastic additives such as plasticizers. There is growing evidence that plasticizers may contribute to obesity due to their disruptive effects on metabolism. Alternatives like diisononylcyclohexane-1,2-dicarboxylate (DINCH) are replacing traditional phthalates such as di-(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP), which are now banned due to their proven harmful health effects. While DINCH is considered a safer alternative to DEHP and no adipogenic effects have been demonstrated in in vivo studies, recent research suggests that the primary metabolite, monoisononylcyclohexane-1,2-dicarboxylic acid ester (MINCH), promotes adipocyte differentiation and dysfunction in vitro. However, metabolic and molecular effects are not fully understood in vivo. Here, we performed a comprehensive in vivo analysis using C57BL/6N mice to investigate the effects of DINCH on adipose tissue physiology and function. Mice were exposed to two doses of DINCH for 16 weeks, followed by a 10-week recovery period. Tissue analysis confirmed the presence of DINCH and MINCH in liver and adipose tissue after treatment and recovery. After the recovery period, elevated DINCH concentrations in adipose tissue depots indicated possible bioaccumulation. Although no changes were observed in body composition and energy expenditure, sex-specific metabolic effects were identified. Female mice exhibited impaired whole-body insulin sensitivity and higher triglyceride levels, while male mice showed an altered insulin/C-peptide ratio and elevated cholesterol, HDL, and LDL levels. Proteomic profiling of serum, adipose and liver tissues revealed changes in pathways related to central energy metabolism and immune response, highlighting the systemic impact of DINCH, potentially on inflammatory processes. Most effects of DINCH, such as changes in insulin response and serum lipid levels, were diminished after the recovery period. Despite many findings consistent with the existing literature suggesting DINCH as a safer DEHP substitute, the observed sex-specific effects on insulin sensitivity, lipid metabolism and inflammatory processes, as well as potential bioaccumulation and long-term metabolic effects of DINCH exposure warrant careful consideration in further risk assessment.
PXD057084	39884271	Identification, structure, and agonist design of an androgen membrane receptor. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of EDL muscle	5alpha-DHT, EDL, Gpr133-/-	Androgens, such as 5alpha-dihydrotestosterone (5alpha-DHT), regulate numerous functions by binding to nuclear androgen receptors (ARs) and potential unknown membrane receptors. Here, we report that the androgen 5alpha-DHT activates membrane receptor GPR133 in muscle cells, thereby increasing intracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP) levels and enhancing muscle strength. Further cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) structural analysis of GPR133-Gs in complex with 5alpha-DHT or its derivative methenolone (MET) reveals the structural basis for androgen recognition. Notably, the presence of the "Phi(F/L)(2.64)-F(3.40)-W(6.53)" and the "F(7.42)xxN/D(7.46)" motifs, which recognize the hydrophobic steroid core and polar groups, respectively, are common in adhesion GPCRs (aGPCRs), suggesting that many aGPCRs may recognize different steroid hormones. Finally, we exploited in silico screening methods to identify a small molecule, AP503, which activates GPR133 and separates the beneficial muscle-strengthening effects from side effects mediated by AR. Thus, GPR133 represents an androgen membrane receptor that contributes to normal androgen physiology and has important therapeutic potentials.
PXD056039	39885217	EZH2 serves as a viable therapeutic target for myeloma-induced osteolytic bone destruction. 	Analysis of immunoprecipitates of HA-EZH2 in RPMI8226 cells transfected with an HA-EZH2 plasmid using Coomassie blue staining and mass spectrometry.	EZH2, LC/MS/MS, Myeloma cells	Myelomatous bone disease is a complication characterized by lytic bone lesions, reduced bone formation, bone pain, and increased fracture risk. Understanding these underlying mechanisms is crucial for developing effective therapeutic approaches. Here we show the role of enhancer of zeste homolog 2 (EZH2) in bone lesions induced by myeloma cells. Our research reveals that cytokines produced by myeloma-associated adipocytes activate the expression of EZH2 in myeloma cells. Furthermore, we find that EZH2 forms a transcriptional repression complex with transcription factor AP2alpha. This complex promotes trimethylation at lysine 27 of histone H3 (H3K27me3) in the promoter region of the tumor suppressor gene EMP1, resulting in transcriptional silencing. EMP1 silencing leads to increased myeloma cell proliferation and the concomitant secretion of osteolytic cytokines that contribute to bone destruction. Importantly, EZH2 inhibitors effectively treat myeloma-induced osteolytic lesions. Thus, targeting EZH2 represents a potential therapeutic strategy for preventing and managing myeloma bone disease.
PXD025025	39885502	Comprehensive analysis of the succinylome in Vero cells infected with peste des petits ruminants virus Nigeria 75/1 vaccine strain. 	Systematic Analysis of Lysine Succinylation in Vero cell infected with small ruminant morbillivirus	post-translational modification lysine succinylation protein-protein interaction Small ruminant morbillivirus	BACKGROUND: Peste des petits ruminants virus (PPRV) is currently the only member of the Morbillivirus caprinae species within the genus Morbillivirus of the family Paramyoxviridae. PPRV causes a highly contagious disease in small ruminants, especially goats and sheep. Succinylation is a newly identified and conserved modification and plays an important role in host cell response to pathogen infection. However, the extent and function of succinylation in Vero cells during PPRV infection remains unknown. RESULTS: In this study, a global profile of the succinylome in Vero cells infected with PPRV Nigeria 75/1 vaccine strain (PPRVvac) was performed by dimethylation labeling-based quantitative proteomics analysis. A total of 2633 succinylation sites derived from 823 proteins were quantified. The comparative analysis of differentially succinylated sites revealed that 228 down-regulated succinylation sites on 139 proteins and 44 up-regulated succinylation sites on 38 proteins were significantly modified in response to PPRVvac infection, seven succinylation motifs were identified. GO classification indicated that the differentially succinylated proteins (DSuPs) mainly participated in cellular respiration, biosynthetic process and transmembrane transporter activity. KEGG pathway analysis indicated that DSuPs were related to protein processing in the endoplasmic reticulum. Protein-protein interaction networks of the identified proteins provided further evidence that various ATP synthase subunits and carbon metabolism were modulated by succinylation, while the overlapped proteins between succinylation and acetylation are involved in glyoxylate and dicarboxylate metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: The findings of the present study provide the first report of the succinylome in Vero cells infected with PPRVvac and provided a foundation for investigating the role of succinylation alone and its overlap with acetylation in response to PPRVvac.
PXD055510	39885717	Cysteine-Directed Isobaric Labeling Combined with GeLC-FAIMS-MS for Quantitative Top-Down Proteomics. 	Cysteine-directed isobaric labeling combined with GeLC-FAIMS MS for quantitative top-down proteomics	FAIMS, GeLC, PEPPI, TMT labeling, Top-down proteomics, quantitative proteomics	The quantification of proteoforms, i.e., all molecular forms in which proteins can be present, by top-down proteomics provides essential insights into biological processes at the molecular level. Isobaric labeling-based quantification strategies are suitable for multidimensional separation strategies and allow for multiplexing of the samples. Here, we investigated cysteine-directed isobaric labeling by iodoTMT in combination with a gel- and gas-phase fractionation (GeLC-FAIMS-MS) for in-depth quantitative proteoform analysis. We optimized the acquisition workflow (i.e., the FAIMS compensation voltages, isolation windows, acquisition strategy, and fragmentation method) using a two-proteome mix to increase the number of quantified proteoforms and reduce ratio compression. Additionally, we implemented a mass feature-based quantification strategy in the widely used deconvolution algorithm FLASHDeconv, which improves and facilitates data analysis. The optimized iodoTMT GeLC-FAIMS-MS workflow was applied to quantitatively analyze the proteome of Escherichia coli grown under glucose or acetate as the sole carbon source, resulting in the identification of 726 differentially abundant proteoforms.
PXD054249	39886595	SMAP3-ID for Identification of Endogenous Protein-Protein Interactions Reveals Regulation of Mitochondrial Activity by Lamins. 	SMAP3-ID for identification of protein-protein interactions in native cells	LBL1-PCF, SMAP3-ID, lamin, native, protein-protein interaction	Proteins regulate biological functions through the formation of distinct protein complexes. Identification and characterization of these protein-protein interactions are critical to deciphering their mechanism of action. Different antibody-based or cross-linking-based methods have been developed to identify the protein-protein interactions. However, these methods require genetic engineering or other means to disrupt the native environments. To circumvent this limitation, we introduce here SMAP3-ID (small-molecule-assisted identification of protein-protein interactions through proximity) method to identify protein-protein interactions in native cellular environment. This method combines a selective ligand for binding to a protein of interest for photo-cross-linking, a live-cell-compatible bioorthogonal click reaction with a trifunctional chemical probe, and a final photo-cross-linking reaction to covalently capture the interacting proteins. Using the SMAP3-ID method and nuclear lamins as an example, we identified numerous lamin interactors in native cells. Significantly, we identified a number of mitochondrial enzymes as novel lamin A (LA) interactors. The interactions between mitochondrial enzymes and LA were further validated, which provides mechanistic insights underlying the metabolic alterations caused by mutations in LA. Furthermore, our previously described small-molecule ligand for LA, LBL1, also induced changes in mitochondrial activity and cellular bioenergetic organization. We conclude that SMAP3-ID is a potentially powerful and generalizable method to identify protein-protein interactions in the native cellular environment.
PXD056999	39886945	Transcriptomics and proteomics characterizing the antioxidant mechanisms of semaglutide in diabetic mice with cognitive impairment. 	Proteomics characterizing the mechanisms of semaglutide in diabetes mice with cognitive impairment	Diabetes, Semaglutide	The aim of the present study was to investigate the neuroprotective effects of semaglutide in diabetes-associated cognitive decline (DACD), while also exploring the underlying mechanisms targeting anti-oxidative effects. The present study evaluated the antioxidant properties of semaglutide using a DACD model of inflammation. To investigate the underlying mechanisms, omics technologies were employed. Comprehensive transcriptomic and proteomic analysis of the cells was conducted to identify the pathways responsible for the observed antioxidant effects. Semaglutide demonstrated the potential to enhance learning and memory functions while mitigating hippocampal pathological damage. RNA-sequencing and data-independent acquisition proteomics analyses identified 13,511 differentially expressed genes and 588 differentially expressed proteins between the control and type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) groups. In addition, 1,378 genes and 2,394 proteins exhibited a differential expression between the T2DM and semaglutide (10 microg/kg) treatment groups. A combined transcriptomic and proteomic analysis unveiled 40 common pathways. Acyl-CoA oxidase 1 (ACOX1) was observed to be activated during oxidative stress and subsequently suppressed by semaglutide. Of note, the antioxidant and anti-apoptotic properties of semaglutide in high glucose (HG) conditions were partially reversed upon ACOX1 overexpression. Overall, the present data provided molecular evidence to elucidate the physiological connections between semaglutide and neuronal function, and contribute to clarifying the role of semaglutide in combating oxidative stress and HG-induced cognitive impairment.
PXD054603	39887243	Revisiting the Effect of Trypsin Digestion Buffers on Artificial Deamidation. 	Revisiting the effect of trypsin digestion buffers on artificial deamidation	Chemical deamidation, de-glycopeptides, de-glycoproteomics	Deamidation of asparagine and glutamine residues occurs spontaneously, is influenced by pH, temperature, and incubation time, and can be accelerated by adjacent amino acid residues. Incubation conditions used for proteolytic digestion in bottom-up proteomic studies can induce significant deamidation that affects results, either knowingly or unknowingly. This has prompted studies into modifications to common trypsin digestion protocols to minimize chemical deamidation, including shorter incubation times and specific lysis buffers. Prior work suggested ammonium acetate at pH 6 to minimize chemical deamidation, but this buffer has compatibility issues with trypsin digestion and common assays (e.g., bicinchoninic acid assays). Here, we re-evaluated former comparisons of Tris-HCl, ammonium bicarbonate, and triethylammonium bicarbonate buffers for the amount of artificial, chemically induced deamidation generated in a standard bottom-up proteomics workflow, and we added an evaluation of three commonly used and biologically compatible buffers, HEPES (4-(2-hydroxyethyl)-1-piperazineethanesulfonic acid), EPPS (3-[4-(2-Hydroxyethyl)piperazin-1-yl]propane-1-sulfonic acid), and PBS (phosphate buffered saline). Our findings show that HEPES exhibited the least amount of artificial deamidation and is a reasonable choice for general proteomic experiments, especially for studies considering N-glycosylation.
PXD023840	39887258	Phosphoproteomics delineates hepatocellular carcinoma subtypes and pinpoints therapeutic targets. 	Phosphoproteomics attributes aberrant signaling events to a druggable kinome in hepatocellular carcinom	MTOR, hepatocellular carcinoma, kinome, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation, protein kinase	BACKGROUND AIMS: Only a minority of patients could benefit from systemic therapy owing to the high heterogeneity of HCC. Therefore, a deeper understanding of the pathogenesis of HCC is essential for precision therapy. Genomic and proteomic studies of HCC have enhanced our understanding of HCC. However, phosphoproteomic characterization of HCC remains poorly understood. APPROACH RESULTS: We conducted an in-depth analysis of a clinical cohort of HCC using high-coverage phosphoproteomic. Effective therapeutic targets were validated using liver cancer cell lines and HCC patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mouse models that correspond to the phosphoproteomic subtypes of HCC. Phosphoproteomic analysis classified HCC into three subtypes, A, B, and C, with increasing malignancy and correlation with clinical features, including patient prognosis, tumor staging, serum alpha fetoprotein (AFP) levels, tumor thrombus, and tumor size. Phosphoproteomic subtyping deeply reflected the biological characteristics and clinical features of HCC patients. The profiles of HCC dysregulated kinase activities inferred from the different phosphoproteomic subtypes, consistently identifying increased kinase activity related to cell proliferation. Subtype-C HCC patients showed the most significant dysregulation, indicating a potential therapeutic target. The corresponding drug, bosutinib, demonstrated efficacy in inhibiting the growth of subtype C tumors in liver cancer cell lines and HCC patient-derived xenograft (PDX) mouse models representative of the phosphoproteomic HCC subtypes. CONCLUSIONS: Our study provides a comprehensive exploration of the phosphoproteomic landscape of HCC, establishing new subtypes that match clinical features and identifying potential therapeutic targets for the most malignant C subtype.
PXD035700	39888918	Cryo-ET suggests tubulin chaperones form a subset of microtubule lumenal particles with a role in maintaining neuronal microtubules. 	Identification of microtubule associated proteins	Microtubule associated proteins, mitosis	The functional architecture of the long-lived neuronal microtubule (MT) cytoskeleton is maintained by various MT-associated proteins (MAPs), most of which are known to bind to the MT outer surface. However, electron microscopy (EM) has long ago revealed the presence of particles inside the lumens of neuronal MTs, of yet unknown identity and function. Here, we use cryogenic electron tomography (cryo-ET) to analyze the three-dimensional (3D) organization and structures of MT lumenal particles in primary hippocampal neurons, human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived neurons, and pluripotent and differentiated P19 cells. We obtain in situ density maps of several lumenal particles from the respective cells and detect common structural features underscoring their potential overarching functions. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics combined with structural modeling suggest that a subset of lumenal particles could be tubulin-binding cofactors (TBCs) bound to tubulin monomers. A different subset of smaller particles, which remains unidentified, exhibits densities that bridge across the MT protofilaments. We show that increased lumenal particle concentration within MTs is concomitant with neuronal differentiation and correlates with higher MT curvatures. Enrichment of lumenal particles around MT lattice defects and at freshly polymerized MT open-ends suggests a MT protective role. Together with the identified structural resemblance of a subset of particles to TBCs, these results hint at a role in local tubulin proteostasis for the maintenance of long-lived neuronal MTs.
PXD058380	39889214	Development of Top-Down Mass Spectrometry Strategies in the Chromatographic Time Scale (LC-TD-MS) for the Extended Characterization of an Anti-EGFR Single-Domain Antibody-Drug Conjugate in Both Reduced and Nonreduced Forms. 	TD-MS analysis of single-domain antibody and anti-EGFR single-domain antibody-drug conjugate	TD-MS, anti-EGFR single-domain antibody-drug conjugate	Even though mAbs have attracted the biggest interest in the development of therapeutic proteins, next-generation therapeutics such as single-domain antibodies (sdAb) are propelling increasing attention as new alternatives with appealing applications in different clinical areas. These constructs are small therapeutic proteins formed by a variable domain of the heavy chain of an antibody with multiple therapeutic and production benefits compared with their mAb counterparts. These proteins can be subjected to different bioconjugation processes to form single-domain antibody-drug conjugates (sdADCs) and hence increase their therapeutic potency, and akin to other therapeutic proteins, nanobodies and related products require dedicated analytical strategies to fully characterize their primary structure prior to their release to the market. In this study, we report for the first time the extensive sequence characterization of a conjugated anti-EGFR 14 kDa sdADC by using state-of-the-art top-down mass spectrometry strategies in combination with liquid chromatography (LC-TD-MS). Mass analysis revealed a highly homogeneous sample with one conjugated molecule. Subsequently, the reduced sdADC was submitted to different fragmentation techniques, namely, higher-energy collisional dissociation, electron-transfer dissociation, and electron-transfer higher-energy collision dissociation, allowing to unambiguously assess the conjugation site with 24 diagnostic fragment ions and 85% of global sequence coverage. The sequence coverage of the nonreduced protein was significantly lower (around 16%); however, the analysis of the fragmentation spectra corroborated the presence of the intramolecular disulfide bridge along with the localization of the conjugation site. Altogether, our results pinpoint the difficulties and challenges associated with the fragmentation of sdAb-derived formats in the LC time scale due to their remarkable stability as a consequence of the intramolecular disulfide bridge. However, the use of complementary activation techniques along with the identification of specific ion fragments allows an improved sequence coverage, the characterization of the intramolecular disulfide bond, and the unambiguous localization of the conjugation site.
PXD059327	39889701	Uncovering dark mass in population proteomics: Pan-analysis of single amino acid polymorphism relevant to cognition and aging. 	Pan-analysis of Single Amino-acid Polymorphism	Single Amino-acid Polymorphism	Human proteome data across populations have been analyzed extensively to reveal protein quantitative associations with physiological or pathological states, while the single amino acid polymorphism (SAP) has been rarely investigated. In this work, we introduce a pan-SAP workflow that relies on pan-database searching independent of individual genome sequencing. Using ten cohorts comprising 2,004 individuals related to cognition disorder and aging, we quantify the SAP sites in key proteins, such as apolipoprotein E (APOE) in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid at the proteome level. Specifically, the quantification of heterozygous APOE-C112R, including its abundance and ratio, provides insights into the dosage effect and relationship with cognition disorder, which cannot be interpreted at the genomic level. Furthermore, our approach could precisely track age-related changes in APOE-C112R levels. Taken together, this pan-SAP workflow uncovered existing but hidden SAPs in multi-populations, connecting SAP quantification to disease progression and paving the way for broader proteomic investigations in complex diseases.
PXD049435	39890781	Proteomic profiling identifies muscle-invasive bladder cancers with distinct biology and responses to platinum-based chemotherapy. 	Proteomic profiling identifies muscle-invasive bladder cancers with distinct biology and responses to platinum-based chemotherapy	bladder cancer, mibc	Platinum-based neoadjuvant chemotherapy prior to radical cystectomy is the preferred treatment for muscle-invasive bladder cancer despite modest survival benefit and significant associated toxicities. Here, we profile the global proteome of muscle-invasive bladder cancers pre- and post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy treatment using archival formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue. We identify four pre-neoadjuvant chemotherapy proteomic clusters with distinct biology and response to therapy and integrate these with transcriptomic subtypes and immunohistochemistry. We observe proteomic plasticity post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy that is associated with increased extracellular matrix and reduced keratinisation compared to pre-neoadjuvant chemotherapy. Post-neoadjuvant chemotherapy clusters appear to be differentially enriched for druggable proteins. For example, MTOR and PARP are over-expressed at the protein level in tumours identified as neuronal-like. In addition, we determine that high intra-tumoural proteome heterogeneity in pre-neoadjuvant chemotherapy tissue is associated with worse prognosis. Our work highlights aspects of muscle-invasive bladder cancer biology associated with clinical outcomes and suggests biomarkers and therapeutic targets based on proteomic clusters.
PXD057768	39890804	Methylcobalamin protects against liver failure via engaging gasdermin E. 	Methylcobalamin protects against liver failure via engaging gasdermin E	Peptide mapping	Gasdermin E (GSDME) is a pyroptotic cell death effector and a promising target for pyroptotic tissue injury. Here we perform high-throughput screening and demonstrate that methylcobalamin (MeCbl), an endogenous coenzyme form of vitamin B12, is a specific GSDME inhibitor and highly effective against cholestatic liver failure. MeCbl specifically blocks GSDME cleavage by directly binding with GSDME. In cholestasis-, cisplatin- or concanavalin A (Con A)-induced male mouse models, MeCbl significantly suppresses liver transaminase activities and inflammation, alleviates hepatocyte death, and reduces mortality of mice by blocking GSDME cleavage. The conserved Cys180 residue in GSDME is essential for caspase-3/GzmB recognition. MeCbl in base-off conformation coordinates to Cys180 to prevent caspase-3/GzmB-GSDME interactions and thereby GSDME-mediated pyroptosis. In summary, our study discovers MeCbl as a specific GSDME inhibitor that is promisingly to be developed as an effective drug against cholestatic liver failure, and other GSDME triggered sterile inflammation and/or organ failure.
PXD052439	39890807	Global proteomics and affinity mass spectrometry analysis of human Schwann cells indicates that variation in and loss of neurofibromin (NF1) alters protein expression and cellular and mitochondrial metabolism. 	Global proteomics and affinity mass spectrometry analysis of human Schwann cells indicates that loss of NF1 alters cellular and mitochondrial metabolism - Global	LCMS, NF1, Systems Analysis	In efforts to evaluate potential biomarkers and drug targets for Neurofibromatosis Type I (NF1) we utilized affinity mass spectrometry and global proteomics to investigate how variation within and loss of NF1 affect immortalized human Schwann cells. We used Strep tagged mNf1 cDNAs (both wild type (WT) and variant) to affinity purity NF1 Protein-Protein interactors (PPIs) from the Schwann cells. We were able to identify 98 PPIs and show that some of these PPIs bind differentially to variant proteins. Next, we evaluated global proteomes. We identified over 1900 proteins in immortalized human Schwann cells both with and without NF1 expression. We identified 148 proteins with differential expression levels based on genotype. Following Ingenuity Pathway analysis (IPA) we found multiple pathways were altered including decreases in "oxidative phosphorylation," increases in "mitochondrial dysfunction", and "glycolysis", as well as changes in "Myelination Signaling Pathway." When we evaluated the proteome of NF1 null cells stably transfected with tagged mNf1 cDNAs we again identified an overall trend of metabolic differences pertaining to "oxidative phosphorylation", "mitochondria dysfunction", and "glycolysis" in the variant cDNA expressing cells. We then validated differential expression of the following proteins: LAMC1, CYB5R3, and SOD2 that are observed in the altered pathways. Finally, consistent with our proteomics findings, we show that NF1 is required to maintain mitochondrial respiratory function in Schwann cells by stabilizing NADH-linked oxidative phosphorylation and electron transfer. Taken together, these data indicate that NF1 plays a significant role in mitochondrial metabolism that results in proteomic changes in Schwann cells and may serve as a future drug target.
PXD054475	39890949	Nucleoporin PNET1 coordinates mitotic nuclear pore complex dynamics for rapid cell division. 	PNET1 is an on-demand component of the nuclear pore complex gating cell proliferation rates	callus, nuclear pore complex	The nuclear pore complex (NPC) is a cornerstone of eukaryotic cell functionality, orchestrating the nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of macromolecules. Here we report that Plant Nuclear Envelope Transmembrane 1 (PNET1), a transmembrane nucleoporin, is an adaptable NPC component that is mainly expressed in actively dividing cells. PNET1's selective incorporation into the NPC is required for rapid cell growth in highly proliferative meristem and callus tissues in Arabidopsis. We demonstrate that the cell cycle-dependent phosphorylation of PNET1 coordinates mitotic disassembly and post-mitotic reassembly of NPCs during the cell cycle. PNET1 hyperphosphorylation disrupts its interaction with the NPC scaffold, facilitating NPC dismantling and nuclear membrane breakdown to trigger mitosis. In contrast, nascent, unphosphorylated PNET1 is incorporated into the nuclear pore membrane in the daughter cells, where it restores interactions with scaffolding nucleoporins for NPC reassembly. The expression of the human PNET1 homologue is required for and markedly upregulated during cancer cell growth, suggesting that PNET1 plays a conserved role in facilitating rapid cell division during open mitosis in highly proliferative tissues.
PXD056092	39892862	Ethanol exposure during differentiation of human induced pluripotent stem cells reduces cardiomyocyte generation and alters metabolism. 	Ethanol Exposure during Differentiation of Human Induced Pluripotent Stem Cells Reduces Cardiomyocyte Generation and Alters Metabolism	cardiomyocyte differentiation, ethanol treatment	Prenatal alcohol exposure increases the risk of congenital heart diseases (CHDs) by disrupting fetal development, yet the mechanisms underlying alcohol-induced cellular and molecular changes in human cardiogenesis remain unclear. This study investigates the effects of ethanol exposure on cardiomyocyte differentiation using human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs) as a model. Cardiomyocyte differentiation was induced using Wnt signaling molecules, and hiPSCs were treated with ethanol at concentrations of 17, 50, and 100 mM from day 0 to day 12. Ethanol treatment impaired cardiac differentiation efficiency in the early stage (days 5-7) and reduced cell proliferation in the late stage (days 12-13) in a dose-dependent manner, resulting in fewer cardiac progenitors and cardiomyocytes. Additionally, ethanol exposure caused mitochondrial defects, characterized by redox imbalance, reduced membrane potentials, and decreased mitochondrial content and cellular respiration. Proteomic analysis revealed downregulation of proteins involved in calcium binding and fatty acid oxidation, a key metabolic pathway for cardiac development. These findings shed light on the mechanisms by which alcohol disrupts cardiomyocyte differentiation and may inform strategies to mitigate alcohol-induced CHD risk.
PXD053187	39894410	COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF THE TOTAL PROTEOME IN NONALCOHOLIC STEATOHEPATITIS: IDENTIFICATION OF POTENTIAL BIOMARKERS. 	comparative total proteome analysis for nash biomarker	full scan mouse liver tribrid	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is a hepatic condition characterized excessive fat accumulation in the liver with advanced stage nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), potentially leading to liver fibrosis, cirrhosis, and cancer. Currently, the identification and classification of NASH require invasive liver biopsy, which has certain limitations. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics can detect crucial proteins and pathways implicated in NASH development and progression. We collected liver and serum samples from choline-deficient, L-amino acid-defined high-fat diet fed NASH C57BL/6J mice and human serum samples to examine proteomic alterations and identify early biomarkers for NASH diagnosis. In-depth targeted multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) scanning and immunoblotting assays were used to verify the biomarker candidates from mouse liver and serum samples, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was employed to analyze human serum samples. The MRM analysis of NASH liver revealed 50 proteins with altered expression (18 up- and 32 downregulated) that are involved in biological processes such as detoxification, fibrosis, inflammation, and fatty acid metabolism. Ingenuity pathway analysis identified impaired protein synthesis, cellular stress and defense, cellular processes and communication, and metabolism in NASH mouse liver. Immunoblotting analysis confirmed that the expression of proteins associated with fatty acid metabolism (Aldo B and Fasn) and urea cycle (Arg1, Cps1, and Otc) was altered in mouse liver and serum. Further analysis on human serum samples using ELISA confirmed the increased expression of multiple proteins, including Aldo B, Asl, and Lgals3, demonstrating values of 0.917, 0.979, and 0.965 of area under the curve in NASH diagnosis. These findings offer valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms of NASH and possible diagnostic biomarkers for early detection.
PXD052875	39895169	Comparative Analysis of Data-Driven Rescoring Platforms for Improved Peptide Identification in HeLa Digest Samples. 	Evaluation of different data-driven rescoring platforms to increase peptide identifications in HeLa digest samples	HeLa samples, Rescoring pipelines	Mass spectrometry is a critical tool to understand complex changes in biological processes. Despite significant advances in search engine technology, many spectra remain unassigned. This research evaluates the performance of three rescoring platforms, Oktoberfest, MS(2)Rescore, and inSPIRE, using MaxQuant output. The results indicated a substantial increase in identifications at the peptide level (40%-53%) and PSM level (64%-67%). However, some peptides were lost due to limitations in processing posttranslational modifications (PTMs)-with up to 75% of lost peptides exhibiting PTMs. Each platform displayed distinct strengths and weaknesses. For instance, inSPIRE performed best in terms of peptide identifications and unique peptides, while MS(2)Rescore performed better for PSMs at higher FDR values. Differences in platform performance stemmed from different sources: original search engine feature selection, type of ion series predicted, retention time predictor, and PTMs compatibility. Overall, inSPIRE showed a superior ability to harness original search engine results. Taken all together, rescoring platforms clearly outperformed original search results; however, they demanded additional computation time (up to 77%) and manual adjustments. The findings here underline the necessity of integrating rescoring platforms into current proteomics pipelines but also address some challenges in their implementation and optimization. Future integrated platforms may help enhance adoption.
PXD056581	39896111	Hepatic HSD17B6 is dispensable for diet-induced fatty liver disease in mice. 	Proteomics analysis for liver from WT and Hsd17b6 liver specific knockout mice	Hsd17b6, MASH	Metabolic dysfunction-associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD) affects up to a third of the global population, which causes huge both clinical and economic burdens. However, its therapeutic strategy is still limited. Steroid dysregulation plays a pivotal role in the homeostasis of lipid metabolism. 17-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 6 (HSD17B6)-one member of 17beta-HSDs, encoded by the gene Hsd17b6, catalyzes the synthesis of androsterone and estrone-steroid hormones. However, whether the manipulation of HSD17B6 could ameliorate diet-induced fatty liver disease remains unknown. Here, we found that the expression of Hsd17b6 is enriched in the liver in both humans and mice. The data of single-cell RNA-seq suggests that Hsd17b6 appears to be exclusively expressed in hepatocytes-the parenchymal cells of the liver. Furthermore, the hepatic expression of Hsd17b6 is correlated with fatty liver disease. A mouse model with Hsd17b6 deletion in the liver (HLKO) is successfully generated via the administration of AAV8 expressing Cre recombinase (driven by TBG-a liver-specific promoter) and sgRNAs of Hsd17b6 to Cre-dependent Cas9 mice. Control and HLKO mice were challenged with the high-fat choline-deficient diet-a diet widely used for the model generation of fatty liver disease. Interestingly, the HLKO liver shows a special proteome signature, with the altered proteins enriched in the Golgi apparatus. However, the deletion of Hsd17b6 does not affect fatty liver disease in terms of fat accumulation, inflammation, and hepatic fibrosis. Taken together, our study suggests that the expression of Hsd17b6 is enriched in the liver and correlated with fatty liver disease but its hepatic deletion does not affect diet-induced fatty liver disease.
PXD059243	39898036	SH2B1 promotes apoptosis in diabetic cataract via p38 MAPK pathway. 	SH2B1 Promotes Apoptosis in Diabetic Cataract via p38 MAPK Pathway	Ophthalmology, autophagy, cell culture, diabetic cataract, epithelial-mesenchymal transition, high-fat diet, high-glucose environment, oxidative stress, protein interaction network	Patients with diabetes face an increased risk of developing cataracts, with unclear mechanisms. Our study illuminates these mechanisms by identifying differentially expressed proteins in the lens anterior capsule of patients with diabetic cataract (DC) and age-related cataract using quantitative proteomics. We found SH2 domain-containing adapter protein B1 (SH2B1) to be crucial in DC progression. Reduced SH2B1 expression was confirmed through PCR and western blotting in patient samples, diet-induced obese mice, and high-glucose (HG)-cultured human lens epithelial cells. Under HG conditions, cell proliferation decreased, while migration and apoptosis, alongside changes in Bcl2 and caspase-3 expression, increased. Overexpressing SH2B1 alleviated these changes and influenced the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. This suggests SH2B1 and the p38 MAPK pathway as significant in DC pathogenesis and potential therapeutic targets. Clinically, this could lead to therapies aimed at halting or slowing DC progression.
PXD060532	39898439	TAZ (WWTR1) Interactome Analysis using nanotrap based affinity purification-mass spectrometry. 	TAZ (WWTR1) Interactome Analysis using a GBP nanotrap based affinity purification approach	TAZ, affinity-purification, nanobody, skeletal muscle	Characterization of protein interactions is a fundamental goal in the post-genomic era. Here, we document a generally applicable approach to identify cellular protein interactomes using a combination of nanobody based affinity purification (A-P) coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS). The Hippo signalling regulator TAZ functions as a transcriptional co-repressor/activator depending on its protein:protein interaction (PPI) network, we therefore undertook an unbiased proteomic screen to identify TAZ PPI's in striated muscle cells. A GFP-Nanotrap based A-P approach coupled with LC-MS/MS protein identification was used to document a comprehensive list of known and novel TAZ interactome components. Informatic analysis of the interactome documented known components of Hippo signalling and multiple epigenetic regulators such as the NuRD, FACT, SWI/SNF complexes and the pro-myogenic CARM1 methyltransferase. Hippo pathway reporter gene (HOP/HIP) analysis indicated that CARM1 represses TAZ transcriptional co-activator function, promoting TAZ Ser89 phosporylation and TAZ cytoplasmic sequestration. M-S analysis revealed that CARM1 dimethylates TAZ at Arg77 in a PGPR*LAGG consensus peptide resulting in enhanced TAZ Ser89 phoshorylation. These studies underline the utility of a nanobody based A-P approach for interactome analysis.
PXD059554	39899609	Detailed characterisation of the trypanosome nuclear pore architecture reveals conserved asymmetrical functional hubs that drive mRNA export. 	Probing the trypanosome nuclear pore by TurboID proximity labelling - Part3	Trypanosoma brucei, TurboID, nuclear pore, proximity labeling	Nuclear export of mRNAs requires loading the mRNP to the transporter Mex67/Mtr2 in the nucleoplasm, controlled access to the pore by the basket-localised TREX-2 complex and mRNA release at the cytoplasmic site by the DEAD-box RNA helicase Dbp5. Asymmetric localisation of nucleoporins (NUPs) and transport components as well as the ATP dependency of Dbp5 ensure unidirectionality of transport. Trypanosomes possess homologues of the mRNA transporter Mex67/Mtr2, but not of TREX-2 or Dbp5. Instead, nuclear export is likely fuelled by the GTP/GDP gradient created by the Ran GTPase. However, it remains unclear, how directionality is achieved since the current model of the trypanosomatid pore is mostly symmetric. We have revisited the architecture of the trypanosome nuclear pore complex using a novel combination of expansion microscopy, proximity labelling and streptavidin imaging. We could confidently assign the NUP76 complex, a known Mex67 interaction platform, to the cytoplasmic site of the pore and the NUP64/NUP98/NUP75 complex to the nuclear site. Having defined markers for both sites of the pore, we set out to map all 75 trypanosome proteins with known nuclear pore localisation to a subregion of the pore using mass spectrometry data from proximity labelling. This approach defined several further proteins with a specific localisation to the nuclear site of the pore, including proteins with predicted structural homology to TREX-2 components. We mapped the components of the Ran-based mRNA export system to the nuclear site (RanBPL), the cytoplasmic site (RanGAP, RanBP1) or both (Ran, MEX67). Lastly, we demonstrate, by deploying an auxin degron system, that NUP76 holds an essential role in mRNA export consistent with a possible functional orthology to NUP82/88. Altogether, the combination of proximity labelling with expansion microscopy revealed an asymmetric architecture of the trypanosome nuclear pore supporting inherent roles for directed transport. Our approach delivered novel nuclear pore associated components inclusive positional information, which can now be interrogated for functional roles to explore trypanosome-specific adaptions of the nuclear basket, export control, and mRNP remodelling.
PXD057815	39900568	Structural insights into dynamics of the BMV TLS aminoacylation. 	Structural insights into dynamics of the BMV TLS aminoacylation	BMV TLS, RNA-binding proteins	Brome Mosaic Virus (BMV) utilizes a tRNA-like structure (TLS) within its 3' untranslated region to mimic host tRNA functions, aiding aminoacylation and viral replication. This study explores the structural dynamics of BMV TLS interacting with tyrosyl-tRNA synthetase (TyrRS) during aminoacylation. Using cryo-EM, we capture multiple states of the TLS-TyrRS complex, including unbound TLS, pre-1a, post-1a, and catalysis states, with resolutions of 4.6 Aa, 3.5 Aa, 3.7 Aa, and 3.85 Aa, respectively. These structural comparisons indicate dynamic changes in both TLS and TyrRS. Upon binding, TLS undergoes dynamic rearrangements, particularly with helices B3 and E pivoting, mediated by the unpaired A36 residue, ensuring effective recognition by TyrRS. The dynamic changes also include a more compact arrangement in the catalytic center of TyrRS and the insertion of 3' CCA end into the enzyme's active site, facilitating two-steps aminoacylation. Enzymatic assays further demonstrated the functional importance of TLS-TyrRS interactions, with mutations in key residues significantly impacting aminoacylation efficiency. Furthermore, Electrophoretic Mobility Shift Assay (EMSA) demonstrated that BMV TLS binds elongation factors EF1alpha and EF2, suggesting a multifaceted strategy to exploit host translational machinery. These findings not only enhance our knowledge of virus-host interactions but also offer potential targets for antiviral drug development.
PXD056291	39900676	Maternal immune activation imprints translational dysregulation and differential MAP2 phosphorylation in descendant neural stem cells. 	Maternal Immune Activation imprints translational dysregulation and differential MAP2 phosphorylation in descendant neural stem cells	Maternal Immune Activation, Neural Stem Cells, Phosphoproteomics, development, neuron	Alterations induced by maternal immune activation (MIA) during gestation impact the subsequent neurodevelopment of progeny, a process that in humans, has been linked to the development of several neuropsychiatric conditions. To undertake a comprehensive examination of the molecular mechanisms governing MIA, we have devised an in vitro model based on neural stem cells (NSCs) sourced from fetuses carried by animals subjected to Poly I:C treatment. These neural progenitors demonstrate proliferative capacity and can be effectively differentiated into both neurons and glial cells. Transcriptomic, proteomic, and phosphoproteomic analyses conducted on these cellular models, in conjunction with counterparts from control treatments, revealed discernible shifts in the expression levels of a specific subset of proteins implicated in neuronal function. Furthermore, the phosphoproteomic data highlighted a discernible discrepancy in the basal phosphorylation of proteins between differentiated cells from both experimental groups, particularly within proteins associated with cytoskeletal architecture and synaptic functionality, notably those belonging to the MAP family. Observed alterations in MAP phosphorylation were found to potentially have functional consequences as they correlate with changes in neuronal plasticity and the establishment of neuronal synapses. Our data agrees with previous published observations and further underscore the importance of MAP2 phosphorylation state on its function and the impact that this protein has in neuronal structure and function.
PXD058955	39900909	A ribosome-associating chaperone mediates GTP-driven vectorial folding of nascent eEF1A. 	Ypl225w-3xFLAG IP-mass spectrometry	Ypl225w	Eukaryotic translation elongation factor 1A (eEF1A) is a highly abundant, multi-domain GTPase. Post-translational steps essential for eEF1A biogenesis are carried out by bespoke chaperones but co-translational mechanisms tailored to eEF1A folding remain unexplored. Here, we use AlphaPulldown to identify Ypl225w (also known as Chp1, Chaperone 1 for eEF1A) as a conserved yeast protein predicted to stabilize the N-terminal, GTP-binding (G) domain of eEF1A against its misfolding propensity, as predicted by computational simulations and validated by microscopy analysis of ypl225wDelta cells. Proteomics and biochemical reconstitution reveal that Ypl225w functions as a co-translational chaperone by forming dual interactions with the eEF1A G domain nascent chain and the UBA domain of ribosome-bound nascent polypeptide-associated complex (NAC). Lastly, we show that Ypl225w primes eEF1A nascent chains for binding to GTP as part of a folding mechanism tightly coupled to chaperone recycling. Our work shows that an ATP-independent chaperone can drive vectorial folding of nascent chains by co-opting G protein nucleotide binding.
PXD057917	39900921	USP5 stabilizes YTHDF1 to control cancer immune surveillance through mTORC1-mediated phosphorylation. 	USP5 Stabilizes YTHDF1 to  Control Cancer Immune Surveillance through mTORC1-mediated Phosphorylation	USP5, YTHDF1, cancer immune	The N(6)-methyladenosine binding protein YTHDF1, often upregulated in cancer, promotes tumor growth and hinders immune checkpoint blockade treatment. A comprehensive understanding of the molecular mechanisms governing YTHDF1 protein stability is pivotal for enhancing clinical response rates and the effectiveness of immune checkpoint blockade in cancer patients. Here, we report that USP5 interacts with YTHDF1, stabilizing it by removing K11-linked polyubiquitination. Insulin activates mTORC1, phosphorylating USP5 and promoting its dimerization, which binds to and protects YTHDF1 from degradation. Conversely, the CUL7-FBXW8 E3 ligase promotes YTHDF1 degradation. Deficiency in YTHDF1 or USP5 increases PD-L1 expression and suppresses immune-related gene expression, facilitating immune evasion. Combining USP5 inhibition with anti-PD-L1 therapy enhances anti-tumor immunity, suggesting USP5 as a potential biomarker for patient stratification. This study reveals a ubiquitination-dependent regulation of YTHDF1, proposing USP5 inhibition alongside PD-(L)1 blockade as a promising cancer treatment strategy.
PXD060218	39901099	Malaria exposure remodels the plasma proteome of Ghanaian children. 	Plasma proteomics of Ghanian children from high malaria transmission (HMT) and low malaria transmission (LMT) zones	Plasma, blood, children, malaria	BACKGROUND: Malaria, caused by Plasmodium falciparum, remains a major public health burden causing ~ 200 million deaths annually, especially among children. Although the lack of an effective vaccine has hindered malaria elimination, studies have reported on individuals acquiring natural immunity to malaria in the context of high malaria exposure. However, the immune correlates of protection in these people who acquire natural immunity against malaria are poorly understood. METHODS: Symptomatic children residing in high and low malaria transmission areas of Ghana were enrolled into the study and followed for 3 weeks from the day of malaria confirmation. The plasma proteome of these children was profiled using a mass spectrometry-based approach and putative protein-based biomarkers and predictors of immune tolerance to malaria were identified. RESULTS: We identified several differentially abundant proteins in children living in high malaria transmission areas relative to children in low transmission areas. Differentially abundant proteins were enriched in immune response processes, including complement cascade activities and elevated platelet activation. We found IGKV3D-20 protein to be strongly associated with high malaria exposure. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings confirm earlier reports and identify putative signature proteins implicated in immune tolerance to malaria. Further large-scale and more mechanistic studies will be needed to reveal the key components of the identified pathways that could explain naturally acquired immunity to malaria and possibly be exploited to develop novel therapeutics against P. falciparum.
PXD057088	39901252	Enhanced therapeutic effects of hypoxia-preconditioned mesenchymal stromal cell-derived extracellular vesicles in renal ischemic injury. 	Enhanced Therapeutic Effects of Hypoxia-Preconditioned Mesenchymal Stromal Cell-Derived Extracellular Vesicles in Renal Ischemic Injury	anti-oxidative stress, extracellular vesicles, hypoxia pretreated, mesenchymal stromal cells, renal ischemia reperfusion injury	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) secreted by mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have been shown to provide significant protection against renal ischemia-reperfusion injury (IRI). Hypoxia has emerged as a promising strategy to enhance the tissue repair capabilities of MSCs. However, the specific effects of hypoxia on MSCs and MSC-EVs, as well as their therapeutic potential in renal IRI, remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the alterations occurring in MSCs and the production of MSC-EVs following hypoxia pre-treatment, and further explored the key intrinsic mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of hypoxic MSC-EVs in the treatment of renal IRI. METHODS: Human umbilical cord MSCs were cultured under normoxic and hypoxic conditions. Proliferation and related pathways were measured, and RNA sequencing was used to detect changes in the transcriptional profile. MSC-EVs from both normoxic and hypoxic conditions were isolated and characterized. In vivo, the localization and therapeutic effects of MSC-EVs were assessed in a rat renal IRI model. Histological examinations were conducted to evaluate the structure, proliferation, and apoptosis of IRI kidney tissue respectively. Renal function was assessed by measuring serum creatinine and blood urea nitrogen levels. In vitro, the therapeutic potential of MSC-EVs were measured in renal tubular epithelial cells injured by antimycin A. Protein sequencing analysis of hypoxic MSC-EVs was performed, and the depletion of Glutathione S-Transferase Omega 1 (GSTO1) in hypoxic MSC-EVs was carried out to verify its key role in alleviating renal injury. RESULTS: Hypoxia alters MSCs transcriptional profile, promotes their proliferation, and increases the production of EVs. Hypoxia-pretreated MSC-EVs demonstrated a superior ability to mitigate renal IRI, enhancing proliferation and reducing apoptosis of renal tubular epithelial cells both in vivo and in vitro. Protein profiling of the EVs revealed an accumulation of numerous anti-oxidative stress proteins, with GSTO1 being particularly prominent. Knockdown of GSTO1 significantly reduced the antioxidant and therapeutic effects on renal IRI of hypoxic MSC-EVs. CONCLUSIONS: Hypoxia significantly promotes the generation of MSC-EVs and enhances their therapeutic effects on renal IRI. The antioxidant stress effect induced by GSTO1 is identified as one of the most critical underlying mechanisms. Our findings highlight that hypoxia-pretreated MSC-EVs represent a novel and promising therapeutic strategy for renal IRI.
PXD056595	39902279	The critical role of MLKL in hemorrhagic stroke and the therapeutic potential of its associated protein network. 	The critical role of MLKL in hemorrhagic stroke and the therapeutic potential of its associated protein network	MLKL, hemorrhagic stroke	Introduction: Mixed Lineage Kinase Domain-Like Protein (MLKL), as the executor of necroptosis and a critical factor in the inflammation, has been shown to be associated with the progression of hemorrhagic stroke. Studies identified MLKL is a promoting factor in this process, suggesting its potential as a therapeutic target to mitigate posthemorrhagic stroke damage. However, the mechanisms by which MLKL functions in the process of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH)-induced damage remain unclear. Methods: Here, we explored the correlation between MLKL and pathological damage in ICH patients through histopathological staining and RT-qPCR. Furthermore, we established an intracerebral hemorrhage model by collagenase IV injection in WT and Mlkl(-/-) mice. Subsequently, we investigated the impact of MLKL knockout on ICH pathological damage through behavioral tests, Western blotting, and RT-qPCR. Finally, we performed a proteomic analysis via LC-MS/MS to explore the potential interacting proteins of MLKL in the progression of ICH. Results: We found that MLKL is highly expressed in the brain tissue of ICH patients and is positively correlated with the extent of injury. However, we found that Mlkl knockout alone was insufficient to fully reverse neuroinflammation and pathological damage. Although Mlkl knockout has a limited effect on alleviating ICH damage, proteomics results indicate that MLKL can mitigate changes in proteins associated with inflammation, metabolism, and coagulation pathways, suggesting that MLKL may exert its effects through these pathways. Discussion: In summary, our results suggest that although MLKL is associated with the progression of ICH, single knockout of Mlkl is insufficient to fully reverse the pathological damage of ICH. Proteomic analysis indicates that co-targeting MLKL and its associated protein network may yield better therapeutic outcomes for hemorrhagic stroke.
PXD050933	39902464	Incremental Modification in the Existing Approaches for Affinity Chromatographic Enrichment of Phosphoproteins Improves Their Profile in Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry Analysis. 	Phosphoproteome enrichment strategy using complementary chemistries of Fe-NTA and TiO2 followed by LC-MS/MS	Phosphoproteins, affinity chromatography, enrichment	Cell signalling is a vital process in cell physiology, which is driven by protein phosphorylation. Global phosphoproteome analysis by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) has thus gained importance in cell signalling research. However, phosphoprotein identification by LC-MS/MS in whole cell lysates, which are complex protein mixtures, is hindered by their poor ionization coupled with suppression of peaks due to low abundance. Enrichment by immobilized metal ion- and metal oxide-affinity chromatography (IMAC and MOAC), which preferentially enrich multi- and mono-phosphorylated proteins, respectively, have improved their detection by MS. However, preferential enrichment limits phosphoproteome coverage in global analyses of cell lysates which contain mono- and multi-phosphorylated proteins. Improvement in their coverage by sequential elution approach that exploits the complementary chemistries of these matrices has been reported. In this study, we observed that the number of phosphoproteins detected using the sequential elution approach was lower (~250-400) as compared to the theoretically predicted number (>500) based on their reported 30% abundance in the cell proteome (1700-2200 proteins detected by MS in our cell lines). Acknowledging the merit of using multiple matrices, we used IMAC and MOAC individually and pooled the data. We observed a remarkable increase (>30%) in phosphoproteome coverage. Further, though 98% of phosphoproteins were enriched by IMAC, among the remaining 2%, those detected exclusively by MOAC were biologically important. This justified the use of multiple matrices. Thus, an incremental modification of using multiple matrices individually rather than sequentially and pooling the data markedly improved the phosphoproteome coverage, which can positively impact cell signalling research.
PXD059659	39903532	ROCK1 promotes B-cell differentiation and proteostasis under stress through the heme-regulated proteins, BACH2 and HRI. 	Phospho-Proteome Analysis of ROCK1 Conditional Knock-Out (ROCK1cKO) Mouse B-Cells under various in vitro stimulation conditions by LC-MS/MS	Mouse Primary B-Cells, ROCK1cKO, Stimulation Conditions	The mechanisms utilized by differentiating B cells to withstand highly damaging conditions generated during severe infections, like the massive hemolysis that accompanies malaria, are poorly understood. Here we demonstrate that ROCK1 regulates B cells differentiation in hostile environments replete with PAMPs (pathogen-associated molecular patterns) and high levels of heme by controlling two key heme-regulated molecules, BACH2 and Heme-regulated eIF2a kinase (HRI). ROCK1 phosphorylates BACH2 and protects it from heme-driven degradation. As B cells differentiate, furthermore, ROCK1 restrains their proinflammatory potential and helps them handle the heightened stress imparted by the presence of PAMPs and heme by controlling HRI, a key regulator of the integrated stress response and cytosolic proteotoxicity. ROCK1 controls the interplay of HRI with HSP90 and limits the recruitment of HRI and HSP90 to unique p62/SQSTM1 complexes that also contain critical kinases like mTORC1 and TBK1, and proteins involved in RNA metabolism, oxidative damage, and proteostasis like TDP-43. Thus, ROCK1 helps B cells cope with intense pathogen-driven destruction by coordinating the activity of key controllers of B cell differentiation and stress responses. These ROCK1-dependent mechanisms may be widely employed by cells to handle severe environmental stresses, and these findings may be relevant for immune-mediated and age-related neurodegenerative disorders.
PXD048454	39906227	The grapevine ABC transporter B family member 15 is a trans-resveratrol transporter out of grapevine cells. 	Label-free proteomics analysis of plasma membrane and tonoplast fractions of elicited grapevine cell cultures.	Grapevine cell culture, Resveratrol transport, UHPLC coupled Q-TOF mass spectrometer, Vitis vinifera, elicitation, plasma membrane and tonoplast fractions	Stilbenes, particularly trans-resveratrol, play a highly relevant defense role in grapevines as phytoalexin is induced in response to stress. Metabolism and transport of stilbenes can be conveniently investigated in grapevine cell culture since large amounts of trans-resveratrol are accumulated in the extracellular medium upon treatment with the elicitor methylated cyclodextrin, either alone or combined with methyl jasmonate. A proteomic approach on grapevine cell membrane fractions was performed to find trans-resveratrol transporter candidates. The candidate VvABCB15 was functionally characterized. Its stable expression in both yeast and Silybum marianum cells' heterologous systems led to increased trans-resveratrol transport in these hosts. Transient expression in Vitis cells showed an enhanced absorbent- or elicitor-assisted accumulation of extracellular trans-resveratrol in VvABCB15-expressing or VvGSTU10/VvABCB15-co-expressing cell suspension cultures. Experiments of transient expression in Vitis cell suspensions using light-switchable stilbene synthase (pHYH::VvSTS3) and VvABCB15 further confirmed the candidate's role as a trans-resveratrol transporter. VvABCB15-YFP fusion proteins in Nicotiana leaf showed localization in the plasma membrane, consistent with a functional role in trans-resveratrol transport. This is the first report to provide evidence for the involvement of an ABC transporter B type, VvABCB15, in trans-resveratrol transport to the extracellular medium of grapevine cells.
PXD059650	39907647	Searching for Sulfotyrosines (sY) in a HA(pY)STACK. 	Searching for Sulfotyrosines (sY) in a H A( pY ) STACK	large scale meta - analysis, misidentification, phosphorylation, tyrosine sulfation	Protein sulfation can be crucial in regulating protein-protein interactions but remains largely underexplored. Sulfation is nearly isobaric to phosphorylation, making it particularly challenging to investigate using mass spectrometry. The degree to which tyrosine sulfation (sY) is misidentified as phosphorylation (pY) is, thus, an unresolved concern. This study explores the extent of sY misidentification within the human phosphoproteome by distinguishing between sulfation and phosphorylation based on their mass difference. Using Gaussian mixture models (GMMs), we screened ~45 M peptide-spectrum matches (PSMs) from the PeptideAtlas human phosphoproteome build for peptidoforms with mass error shifts indicative of sulfation. This analysis pinpointed 104 candidate sulfated peptidoforms, backed up by Gene Ontology (GO) terms and custom terms linked to sulfation. False positive filtering by manual annotation resulted in 31 convincing peptidoforms spanning 7 known and 7 novel sY sites. Y47 in calumenin was particularly intriguing since mass error shifts, acidic motif conservation, and MS(2) neutral loss patterns characteristic of sulfation provided strong evidence that this site is sulfated rather than phosphorylated. Overall, although misidentification of sulfation in phosphoproteomics data sets derived from cell and tissue intracellular extracts can occur, it appears relatively rare and should not be considered a substantive confounding factor in high-quality phosphoproteomics data sets.
PXD047834	39907700	An Endogenous Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Ligand Dysregulates Endothelial Functions, Transcriptome, and Phosphoproteome. 	Endogenous aryl hydrocarbon receptor ligands-dysregulated phosphoproteomes and proteomes in human fetal endothelial cells	AhR ligands, Endothelial cells, Phosphoproteomics, Preeclampsia	We have reported that an endogenous aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) ligand, 2-(1'H-indole-3'-carbonyl)-thiazole-4-carboxylic acid methyl ester (ITE), inhibits functions of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and induces preeclampsia (PE)-like symptoms in rats. Herein, we tested the hypothesis that ITE impairs endothelial functions via disturbing transcriptome and phosphoproteome in HUVECs. We measured AhR activity in human maternal and umbilical vein sera from PE and normotensive (NT) pregnancies. The serum-induced changes in CYP1A1/B1 mRNA (indexes of AhR activation) in HUVECs were quantified using RT-qPCR. ITE's effects on endothelial proliferation and monolayer integrity in female and male HUVECs were determined. We profiled ITE-induced changes in transcriptome and phosphoproteome in HUVECs using RNA-seq and bottom-up phosphoproteomics, respectively. After 12 hr of treatment, umbilical vein sera from PE increased CYP1A1 mRNA (1.7-fold of NT) HUVECs, which was blocked by CH223191, an AhR antagonist. ITE dose-dependently inhibited endothelial proliferation (76%-87% of control) and time-dependently reduced endothelial integrity with a maximum inhibition (~ 10%) at 40 hr. ITE induced 140 and 80 differentially expressed genes in female and male HUVECs, respectively. ITE altered phosphorylation of 92 and 105 proteins at 4 and 24 hr, respectively, in HUVECs. These ITE-dysregulated genes and phosphoproteins were enriched in biological functions and pathways are relevant to heart, liver, and kidney diseases, vascular functions, and inflammatory responses. Thus, endogenous AhR ligands may impair endothelial functions by disturbing transcriptome and phosphoproteome. These AhR ligand-dysregulated genes and phosphoproteins may be therapeutic and cell sex-specific targets for PE-induced endothelial dysfunction.
PXD058265	39908105	CO2 potentiates echinocandin efficacy during invasive candidiasis therapy via dephosphorylation of Hsp90 by Ptc2 in condensates. 	CO2 potentiates echinocandin efficacy during invasive candidiasis therapy via  dephosphorylation of Hsp90 by Ptc2 in condensates	Candida, Ptc2	Carbon dioxide is a signaling cue critical for fungal pathogenesis. Ptc2, a type 2C protein phosphatase (PP2C), serves as a conserved CO2 sensor in fungi. By combining phosphoproteomic and biochemical assays, we identified Hsp90 as a direct target of Ptc2 at host CO2 concentrations and Ssb1 as a Ptc2 target protein regardless of CO2 levels in Candida albicans, the most prevalent human fungal pathogen. Ptc2 forms reversible condensates at elevated CO2, which enables the recruitment of Hsp90, but not Ssb1, to condensates, allowing efficient dephosphorylation. This process confers an enhanced susceptibility to caspofungin in vitro and during in vivo infection therapy. Importantly, we demonstrate this phenomenon in non-albicans Candida species. Sequential passages of C. albicans in mice with caspofungin treatment readily induce in vivo drug tolerance, causing therapeutic failure. These evolved strains display increased resistance to caspofungin under host concentrations of CO2 but remain susceptible in air. Collectively, our study reveals a profound impact of host concentrations of CO2 on antifungal drug susceptibility and connects this phenotype to therapeutic outcomes and highlights condensate formation as an efficient means that enables selective recruitment of substrates for certain signaling events.
PXD051208	39908652	Blocking MIF secretion enhances CAR T-cell efficacy against neuroblastoma. 	Mass spectrometry of neuroblastoma organoids	DIA, neuroblastoma, organoids	INTRODUCTION: Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy is a promising and innovative cancer therapy. However, immunosuppressive tumor microenvironments (TME) limit T cell persistence and durable efficacy. Here, we aimed to identify and target immunosuppressive factors in the TME of neuroblastoma, a pediatric extracranial solid tumor, to improve CAR-T efficacy. METHODS: Immunosuppressive factors were identified using a multi-omics approach, including single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) of 24 neuroblastoma tumors, published bulk-RNA sequencing datasets, and mass-spectrometry of patient-derived tumoroid models. Candidate targets were validated with functional assays in vitro and in vivo. Protein degradation of the top immunosuppressive target by PROTAC technology was used to evaluate the effect on CAR T-cell activity. RESULTS: ScRNA-seq revealed 13 immunosuppressive interactions in the TME of neuroblastoma, two effectors of which, Midkine (MDK) and Macrophage Migration Inhibitory Factor (MIF), were validated as candidate targets across multiple published datasets. Both factors were among the top 6 % of most abundantly secreted factors by patient-derived tumoroid models, substantiating their potential relevance in the TME. In vitro and in vivo functional assays confirmed MIF to be a potent inhibitor of CAR T-cell activation and killing capacity. To translate these findings into a potentially clinically applicable treatment, we explored MIF targeting by PROTAC technology, which significantly enhanced activation of CAR T-cells targeting GPC2 and B7-H3. CONCLUSION: By defining the immunosuppressive effects of neuroblastoma's TME on CAR T-cell efficacy, revealing the pivotal role of MIF, we provide an analytic pipeline and therapeutic strategy for improving adoptive cell therapies for this pediatric malignancy and potentially other solid tumors.
PXD047149	39910038	Exploring BCL2 regulation and upstream signaling transduction in venetoclax resistance in multiple myeloma: potential avenues for therapeutic intervention. 	BCL-2 Regulation and Upstream Signal Transduction Modulate Venetoclax Resistance in Multiple Myeloma: New Avenues for Therapeutic Intervention	Acquired resistance, BCL-2, Multiple Myeloma, Venetoclax	Investigating venetoclax (VTX) resistance in multiple myeloma (MM) is crucial for the development of novel therapeutic strategies to tackle resistance. We conducted a multi-omic characterization of established VTX-resistant isogenic human myeloma cell lines (HMCL) and primary MM patient samples pre- and post-VTX treatment. Transcriptomic and proteomic analysis revealed that resistance was largely associated with BCL-2 family protein dysregulation, including upregulation of anti-apoptotic proteins such as MCL-1, BCL-XL, BCL-2, and downregulation of pro-apoptotic members. Notably, the re-introduction of BIM into resistant cells restored VTX sensitivity and synergized with MCL-1 inhibitors. Upstream signaling pathways, including growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK) and phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) were implicated in this dysregulation. Simultaneous inhibition of MCL-1, BCL-XL, and upstream PI3K, RTK (FGF, EGF, and IGF1) mediated signaling enhanced VTX sensitivity. Post-translational modifications of MCL-1, particularly its stabilization via acetylation and phosphorylation, were investigated, although their inhibition only marginally increased VTX sensitivity. Lastly, the inhibition of AURKA and mitochondrial respiration also improved VTX sensitivity in some resistant HMCLs. Our findings suggest that combining VTX with MCL-1 and BCL-XL inhibitors or PIK3/RTK inhibitors holds potential for overcoming resistance. The study illustrates the importance of understanding molecular determinants of resistance to develop tailored therapeutic strategies.
PXD060051	39910101	A covalent peptide-based lysosome-targeting protein degradation platform for cancer immunotherapy. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of targeted degradation following Pep-TAC treatment	Pep-TAC, Surface-enriched protein, Targeted protein degradation	The lysosome-targeting chimera (LYTAC) strategy provided a very powerful tool for the degradation of membrane proteins. However, the synthesis of LYTACs, antibody-small molecule conjugates, is challenging. The ability of antibody-based LYTACs to penetrate solid tumor is limited as well, especially to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Here, we propose a covalent chimeric peptide-based targeted degradation platform (Pep-TACs) by introducing a long flexible aryl sulfonyl fluoride group, which allows proximity-enabled cross-linking upon binding with the protein of interest. The Pep-TACs platform facilitates the degradation of target proteins through the mechanism of recycling transferrin receptor (TFRC)-mediated lysosomal targeted endocytosis. Biological experiments demonstrate that covalent Pep-TACs can significantly degrade the expression of PD-L1 on tumor cells, dendritic cells and macrophages, especially under acidic conditions, and markedly enhance the function of T cells and tumor phagocytosis by macrophages. Furthermore, both in anti-PD-1-responsive and -resistant tumor models, the Pep-TACs exert significant anti-tumor immune response. It is noteworthy that Pep-TACs can cross the BBB and prolong the survival of mice with in situ brain tumor. As a proof-of-concept, this study introduces a modular TFRC-based covalent peptide degradation platform for the degradation of membrane protein, and especially for the immunotherapy of brain tumors.
PXD053079	39910169	Deep visual proteomics reveals DNA replication stress as a hallmark of signet ring cell carcinoma. 	Deep Visual Proteomics reveals DNA replication stress as a hallmark of Signet Ring Cell Carcinoma	Cancer, Case study, Deep Visual Proteomics, Pathology, Precision oncology, Signet Ring Cell Carcinoma, Spatial Proteomics	Signet Ring Cell Carcinoma (SRCC) is a rare and highly malignant form of adenocarcinoma with increasing incidence and poor prognosis due to late diagnosis and limited treatment options. We employed Deep Visual Proteomics (DVP), which combines AI-directed cell segmentation and classification with laser microdissection and ultra-high sensitivity mass spectrometry, for cell-type-specific proteomic analysis of SRCC across the bladder, prostate, seminal vesicle, and a lymph node of a single patient. DVP identified significant alterations in DNA damage response (DDR) proteins, particularly within the ATR and mismatch repair (MMR) pathways, indicating replication stress as a crucial factor in SRCC mutagenicity. Additionally, we observed substantial enrichment of immune-related proteins, reflecting high levels of cytotoxic T lymphocyte infiltration and elevated PD-1 expression. These findings suggest that pembrolizumab immunotherapy may be more effective than conventional chemotherapy for this patient. Our results provide novel insights into the proteomic landscape of SRCC, identify potential targets, and open up for personalized therapeutic strategies in managing SRCC.
PXD060193	39910614	Multi-omics uncovers immune-modulatory molecules in plasma contributing to resistance exercise-ameliorated locomotor disability after incomplete spinal cord injury. 	Multi-omics uncovers immune-modulatory molecules in plasma contributing to resistance exercise-ameliorated locomotor disability after incomplete spinal cord injury_human data	Neuroprotection, Resistance exercise, Spinal cord injury	BACKGROUND: Exercise rehabilitation therapy has garnered widespread recognition for its beneficial effects on the restoration of locomotor function in individuals with spinal cord injury (SCI). Notably, resistance exercise has demonstrated significant improvements in muscle strength, coordination, and overall functional recovery. However, to optimize clinical management and mimic exercise-like effects, it is imperative to obtain a comprehensive understanding of the molecular alterations that underlie these positive effects. METHODS: We conducted a randomized controlled clinical trial investigating the effects of resistance exercise therapy for incomplete SCI. We integrated the analysis of plasma proteomics and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) transcriptomics to explore the molecular and cellular changes induced by resistance exercise. Subsequently, we established a weight-loaded ladder-climbing mouse model to mimic the physiological effects of resistance exercise, and we analyzed the plasma proteome and metabolome, as well as the transcriptomes of PBMC and muscle tissue. Lastly, to confirm the transmissibility of the neuroprotective effects induced by resistance exercise, we intravenously injected plasma obtained from exercised male mice into SCI female mice during the non-acute phase. RESULTS: Plasma proteomic and PBMC transcriptomic profiling underscored the notable involvement of the complement pathways and humoral immune response in the process of restoring locomotor function following SCI in the human trial. Moreover, it was emphasized that resistance exercise interventions could effectively modulate these pathways. Through employing plasma proteomic profiling and transcriptomic profiling of PBMC and muscle tissues in mice, our study revealed immunomodulatory responses that parallel those observed in human trials. In addition, our analysis of plasma metabolomics revealed an enhancement in lipid metabolism following resistance exercise. We observed that resistance exercise plasma exhibited significant effects in ameliorating locomotor disability after SCI via reducing demyelination and inhibiting neuronal apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: Our investigation elucidates the molecular alterations associated with resistance exercise therapy promoting recovery of locomotor function following incomplete SCI. Moreover, we demonstrate the direct neuroprotective effects delivered via exercise plasma injection, which facilitates spinal cord repair. Mechanistically, the comprehensive multi-omics analysis involving both human and mice reveals that the principal constituents responsible for the observed neuroprotective effects within the plasma are predominantly immunoregulatory factors, warranting further experimental validation. TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study was retrospectively registered on 17 July, 2024, in Chinese Clinical Trial Registry (No.: ChiCTR2400087038) at https://www.chictr.org.cn/ .
PXD039591	39910665	TGF-beta induces cholesterol accumulation to regulate the secretion of tumor-derived extracellular vesicles. 	TGF-beta signaling activation modulates the biology of tumor-derived extracellular cellular vesicles	Cancer, Drug resistance, Extracellular vesicles (EV), Metastasis, Transforming Growth Factor beta (TGF- beta)	BACKGROUND: Cancer cells are avid extracellular vesicle (EV) producers. EVs transport transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta), which is commonly activated under late stages of cancer progression. Nevertheless, whether TGF-beta signaling coordinates EV biogenesis is a relevant topic that remains minimally explored. METHOD: We sought after specific TGF-beta pathway mediators that could regulate EV release. To this end, we used a large number of cancer cell models, coupled to EV cell biological assays, unbiased proteomic and transcriptomic screens, followed by signaling and cancer biology analyses, including drug resistance assays. RESULTS: We report that TGF-beta, by activating its type I receptor and MEK-ERK1/2 signaling, increased the numbers of EVs released by human cancer cells. Upon examining cholesterol as a mediator of EV biogenesis, we delineated a pathway whereby ERK1/2 acted by phosphorylating sterol regulatory element-binding protein-2 that transcriptionally induced 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase expression, thus raising cholesterol abundance at both cellular and EV levels. Notably, inhibition of MEK or cholesterol synthesis, which impaired TGF-beta-induced EV secretion, sensitized cancer cells to chemotherapeutic drugs. Furthermore, proteomic profiling of two distinct EV populations revealed that EVs secreted by TGF-beta-stimulated cells were either depleted or enriched for different sets of cargo proteins. Among these, latent-TGF-beta1 present in the EVs was not affected by TGF-beta signaling, while TGF-beta pathway-related molecules (e.g., matrix metalloproteinases, including MMP9) were either uniquely enriched on EVs or strongly enhanced after TGF-beta stimulation. EV-associated latent-TGF-beta1 activated SMAD signaling, even when EV uptake was blocked by heparin, indicating competent signaling capacity from target cell surface receptors. MMP inhibitor or proteinase treatment blocked EV-mediated SMAD signaling, suggesting that EVs require MMP activity to release the active TGF-beta from its latent complex, a function also linked to the EV-mediated transfer of pro-migratory potential and ability of cancer cells to survive in the presence of cytotoxic drugs. CONCLUSION: Hence, we delineated a novel signaling cascade that leads to high rates of EV generation by cancer cells in response to TGF-beta, with cholesterol being a key intermediate step in this mechanism.
PXD055326	39911133	Multiomics Analysis Reveals Therapeutic Targets for Chronic Kidney Disease With Sarcopenia. 	Protein mass spectrum analysis of gastrocnemius from CKD and NC mice	chronic kidney disease, gastrocnemius, mice	BACKGROUND: The presence of sarcopenia in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) is associated with poor prognosis. The mechanism underlying CKD-induced muscle wasting has not yet been fully explored. This study investigates the influence of renal secretions on muscles using multiomics sequencing. METHODS: The kidney transcriptome analysis by RNA-seq and protein profiling by tandem mass tag (TMT), serum TMT and muscle TMT were performed in CKD established using 0.2% adenine and control mice. Spp1 recombinant protein was used to study its effect on myotube atrophy in vitro. In animal experiments on CKD, pharmacological inhibition of Spp1 was used to explore the role of Spp1 in skeletal muscle wasting. Transcriptome analysis was performed to identify differentially expressed genes (DEGs) in the gastrocnemius muscle following Spp1 pharmacological inhibition. RESULTS: In the renal transcriptome and TMT, 503 and 377 proteins/genes respectively were co-upregulated and co-downregulated. In the serum TMT of CKD and normal control (NC) mice, 22 upregulated and 7 downregulated differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) showed the same expression patterns as those in the kidney transcriptome and TMT analysis. Based on bioinformatics analysis and reported studies, we selected Spp1 for further validation. Spp1 recombinant protein was added to C2C12 myotubes in vitro, and the results indicated that Spp1 significantly increased the protein levels of the muscle atrophy marker (Murf-1) and promoted the smaller myotubes (all p < 0.05). Compared with NC mice, Spp1 mRNA and protein levels were significantly upregulated in the kidneys of CKD mice, and the serum concentration of Spp1 was also markedly increased (all p < 0.05). In animal experiments, pharmacological inhibition of Spp1 increased the weights of gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior muscles (p < 0.05) and improved muscle atrophy phenotype. Transcriptome analysis showed that DEGs in the gastrocnemius muscle following Spp1 pharmacological inhibition were enriched in protein digestion and absorption, glucagon signalling pathway, apelin signalling pathway and ECM-receptor interaction pathway. CONCLUSIONS: Our study is the first to establish a regulatory network of kidney-muscle crosstalk to explore the potential mechanism of CKD-related sarcopenia. Employing multiomics analysis, cellular assessment and animal experiments, we have identified that Spp1 could potentialy serve as a promising therapeutic target for CKD patients with sarcopenia.
PXD051312	39912552	Systemic Changes in Early Pregnancy in the Mare: An Integrated Proteomic Analysis of Blood Plasma, Histotroph, and Yolk Sac Fluid at Day 14 Post-Ovulation. 	Systemic changes in early pregnancy in the mare: an integrated proteomic analysis of blood plasma, histotroph and yolk sac fluid at day 14 post-ovulation	MRP, TTR, biomarker, early pregnancy loss, secretoglobin, transthyretin, uteroglobin	PURPOSE: Embryo-maternal signaling during the establishment of pregnancy in horses remains one of the biggest mysteries in large animal physiology. Early pregnancy loss represents a major source of economic loss to the breeding industry. This study aimed to investigate the systemic changes associated with early pregnancy by mapping the proteome of blood plasma at 14 days in pregnant and non-pregnant mares. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Plasma proteomes were analysed in commercially bred pregnant (n = 17) and non-pregnant (n = 17) Thoroughbred mares at 14 days after ovulation, using high-resolution mass spectrometry. Day 14 histotroph and yolk sac fluid were also profiled and datasets were integrated through pathway analysis. RESULTS: We identified 229 total protein IDs, with 12 increased and 10 decreased significantly in pregnant versus non-pregnant plasma. To gain functional insight, these data were aligned with proteomes of 14-day pregnant mare uterine fluid (n = 4; 1358 IDs) and conceptus fluid (soluble proteins within the yolk sac fluid; n = 4; 1152 IDs), and further interrogated using gene ontology databases and pathway analysis. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: These analyses identified consistent systemic changes in the mare's proteome that indicate a profound and specific immune response to early pregnancy, which appears to precede the systemic endocrine response to pregnancy. Integrated pathway analysis suggests that embryo-maternal interactions in early pregnancy may mimic elements of the virus-host interaction to modulate the maternal immune response. Transthyretin (TTR) and uteroglobin (SCGB1A1) were respectively down- and upregulated in plasma while also present in uterine fluid, and are proposed to be key proteins in early pregnancy establishment. These findings contribute significantly to our knowledge of early pregnancy in the mare and identify potential new avenues for developing clinical approaches to reduce early embryo loss.
PXD047320	39913197	The administration of exogenous HSP47 as a collagen specific therapeutic approach. 	Administration of recombinant HSP47 as a new therapeutic approach to stimulate collagen secretion and ameliorate ECM in osteogenesis imperfecta	nanoLC-MS/MS	The proof-of-principle of the therapeutic potential of heat shock protein 47 (HSP47) for diseases characterized by defects in the collagen I synthesis is here proved in osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), a prototype of collagen disorders. Most of the OI mutations delay collagen I chains folding, increasing their exposure to post translational modifications that affect collagen secretion and impact extracellular matrix fibrils assembly. As model, we used primary fibroblasts from OI individuals with defect in the collagen prolyl-3-hydroxylation complex, since are characterized by the synthesis of homogeneously overmodified collagen molecules. We demonstrated that the exogenous recombinant HSP47 (rHSP47) is uptaken by the cells and localizes at the ER exit sites and ER Golgi intermediate compartment. rHSP47 treatment increased collagen secretion, reduced collagen post translational modifications and intracellular collagen retention and ameliorated the general ER proteostasis, leading to improved cellular homeostasis and vitality. These positive changes were also mirrored by an increased collagen content in the OI matrix. A mutation dependent effect was found in fibroblasts from three probands with collagen I mutations, for which rHSP47 was effective only in cells with the most N-term defect. A beneficial effect on bone mineralization was proved in vivo in the zebrafish p3h1-/- OI model.
PXD053370	39913342	Metabolism of hemicelluloses by root-associated Bacteroidota species. 	Hemicellulose utilisation in Flavobacterium	Flavobacterium, Hemicellulose, Warwick_RTP, xyloglucan	Bacteroidota species are enriched in the plant microbiome and provide several beneficial functions for their host, including disease suppression. Determining the mechanisms that enable bacteroidota to colonise plant roots may therefore provide opportunities for enhancing crop production through microbiome engineering. By focusing on nutrient acquisition mechanisms, we discovered Bacteroidota species lack high affinity ATP-binding cassette transporters common in other plant bacteria for capturing simple carbon exudates. Instead, bacteroidota possess TonB-dependent transporters predicted to import glycans produced by plant polysaccharide breakdown. Metatranscriptomics (oat rhizosphere) identified several TonB-dependent transporters genes that were highly expressed in Flavobacterium (phylum Bacteroidota). Using Flavobacterium johnsoniae as the model, we experimentally validated the function of one highly expressed TonB-dependent transporters, identifying a conserved Xyloglucan Utilisation Loci conferring an ability to import xyloglucan, the major hemicellulose secreted from plant roots. Xyloglucan utilisation loci harbour an endoxyloglucanase related to family 5 subfamily 4 subclade 2D glycoside hydrolases carrying a mutation that we demonstrate is required for full activity towards xyloglucan. Based on analysing 700 soil metagenomes, subclade 2D glycoside hydrolases have radiated in soil and are prevalent among plant-associated bacteroidota and certain taxa affiliated with Gammaproteobacteria. In bacteroidota, particularly Flavobacterium species, xyloglucan utilisation loci organisation was highly conserved, which may increase their competitive ability to utilise xyloglucan. Given bacteroidota lack high-affinity nutrient transporters for simple carbon, instead possessing xyloglucan utilisation loci and similar gene clusters, our data suggests hemicellulose exudates provide them with an important carbon source in the rhizosphere.
PXD052470	39913466	TMT-based quantitative proteomics reveals the genetic mechanisms of secondary hair follicle development in fine-wool sheep. 	TMT-Based quantitative proteomics reveals the genetic mechanisms of secondary hair follicle development in the fine wool sheep foetus	Secondary hair follicle, Sheep, Skin, TMT-based quantitative proteomic analysis	The development of secondary hair follicles influences the quality of sheep wool. However, the mechanism by which proteins mediate the fetal development of secondary hair follicles remains unknown. In this study, the histomorphology of secondary hair follicles was analyzed over four stages of fetal development (75, 85, 95, and 105 gestational days). TMT-based quantitative proteomics was used to compare the differential protein profiles of skin tissues between consecutive developmental periods (75 versus 85, 85 versus 95, and 95 versus 105 gestational days). We found that the density of secondary hair follicles and the secondary hair follicles/primary hair follicles ratio increased from 85 to 105 gestational days. Bioinformatic analysis identified 238, 35, and 348 differentially expressed proteins in the respective comparison periods. Focal adhesion, ECM-receptor interaction, and the estrogen signaling pathway all played important roles in secondary hair follicle development. COL1A1, THBS3, ITGA6, COL6A1, and THBS4 were identified as potential candidate proteins in the initiation of secondary hair follicles. This study provides valuable proteomics data on secondary hair follicle development and thus has deepened our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying wool quality traits in fine-wool sheep.
PXD057471	39914545	Proteomic and functional characterisation of Trimeresurus popeiorum (Pope's pit viper) venom proteins: Role of enzymatic and non-enzymatic venom toxins in envenomation pathophysiology. 	Unveiling the venom proteome of Pope's Pit Viper (Trimeresusrus popeiorum)	Venom, in-gel trypsin digestion	Snakebite remains a significant public health issue in tropical regions, with 4.5 to 5.4 million incidents annually. Trimeresurus popeiorum (Pope's Pit Viper), found in Southeast Asia and northeast India, poses a potential threat, yet its venom's protein composition and toxicity are poorly understood. In this study, we used label-free quantitative proteomics to analyze the venom of T. popeiorum, identifying 106 proteins across 12 venom protein families. Notably, 60 % of the venom consisted of proteolytic enzymes, correlating with its prominent metalloprotease, fibrin(ogen)lytic, procoagulant, and thrombin-like activities. The proteome composition also correlates with the clinical effects such as consumption coagulopathy and local effects, seen in victims of Pit Viper envenomation in northeast India. Our findings suggest that T. popeiorum venom is less toxic than other Viperinae species such as Daboia russelii and Echis carinatus, likely due to isoform-level variations in certain toxin classes, including metalloprotease and serine protease. The venom's lethal dose (LD50) in Swiss albino mice was 1 mg/kg, and it caused haemorrhage, tissue necrosis, edema, myotoxicity, and defibrinogenation. Histopathological examination of the TPV-treated mice showed notable toxic effects, including marked hepatic vacuolation in the liver, damage to cardiac muscle and vascular congestion in the heart, bronchial epithelial hyperplasia with cellular infiltration in the interstitial and peribronchiolar regions of the lungs, as well as tubular necrosis and haemorrhage in the kidneys. This research provides the first comprehensive analysis of T. popeiorum venom, highlighting its pharmacological effects and the need for greater medical attention to this lesser-known species.
PXD058995	39914663	Proteogenomic Profiling Reveals Small ORFs and Functional Microproteins in Activated T Cells. 	Proteogenomic Profiling Reveals Functional Microproteins in T Cells	T cell activation, microprotein	Noncanonical micropeptides or called novel microproteins, i.e., polypeptides mostly under 10 kDa, are encoded by genomic sequences that have been previously annotated as noncoding but now known as small open reading frames (sORFs). The recent identification of microproteins encoded by sORFs has provided evidence that many sORFs encode functional microproteins that play crucial roles in various biological processes. T cell activation is a critical biological process for adaptive immune response. Understanding key players in this process will allow us to decipher the complex mechanisms as well as develop immunotherapy for treating a wide range of diseases. Although there have been extensive studies on canonical proteins in T cell activation, the novel microproteins in T cells and their roles have been uncharted water to date. Nascent proteins are defined as newly synthesized polypeptides emerged during the translation of mRNA. In this study, we combined nascent proteomics and quantitative proteomics to identify 411 novel microproteins in primary human T cells, including 83 nascent microproteins. We activated the T cell function with either PMA/Ionomycin (distal activation) or CD3/CD28 activating antibodies (proximal activation), and obtained a comprehensive canonical protein and microprotein profiles to pinpoint common and distinct differentially expressed proteins under these two activation conditions. After experimental testing, three microproteins numbered T1, T2 and T3 were found to be functional in regulating T cell activation. Bioinformatic and proteomic analyses suggested that T1 was functional related to immune as negative feedback to T cell activation. Our study not only established an integrated approach to uncover and elucidate novel microproteins but also highlight the significant role of microproteins in regulating T cell activation.
PXD055771	39915293	Focal adhesion kinase promotes aerobic glycolysis in hepatic stellate cells via the cyclin D1/c-Myc/MCT-1 pathway to induce liver fibrosis. 	proteomics for CCL4-induced liver fibrosis	liver fibrosis	Hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) transdifferentiate into myofibroblasts during liver fibrosis and exhibit increased glycolysis. Phosphorylated focal adhesion kinase (FAK) (pY397-FAK) promotes monocarboxylate transporter 1 (MCT-1) expression in HSCs to increase aerobic glycolysis and cause liver fibrosis. A combined multiomics analysis of C57BL/6 mice with tetrachloromethane (CCl4)-induced liver fibrosis was performed to identify the downstream FAK signaling pathway. The effect of the FAK inhibitor PF562271 on CCl4-induced liver fibrosis was explored by immunofluorescence of liver tissues. The migration, proliferation and aerobic glycolysis of LX-2 cells after stimulation and activation by transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-beta1) or suppression by PF562271 was assessed in vitro. Multiomics analysis of a successfully generated CCl4-induced liver fibrosis mouse model was performed. FAK and cyclin D1 were significantly enriched in mice with CCl4-induced liver fibrosis. In vivo, the MCT-1 and alpha smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA) levels were increased in mice with CCl4-induced liver fibrosis, and MCT-1 and alpha-SMA expression decreased after PF562271 treatment. In vitro, PF562271 alleviated TGF-beta1-induced LX-2 activation. LX-2 cells showed diminished migration, proliferation, and aerobic glycolysis after PF562271 intervention. FAK promotes aerobic glycolysis in LX-2 cells through the cyclin D1/c-Myc/MCT-1 pathway, thereby increasing liver fibrosis.
PXD050513	39915446	ROS-induced cytosolic release of mitochondrial PGAM5 promotes colorectal cancer progression by interacting with MST3. 	Mass spectrometry of HCT116 cells	Mass spectrometry data	Aberrant release of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (mtROS) in response to cellular stress is well known for promoting cancer progression. However, precise molecular mechanism by which mtROS contribute to epithelial cancer progression remains only partially understood. Here, using colorectal cancer (CRC) models, we show that upon sensing excessive mtROS, phosphatase PGAM5, which normally localizes to the mitochondria, undergoes aberrant cleavage by presenilin-associated rhomboid-like protein (PARL), becoming released into the cytoplasm. Cytosolic PGAM5 then directly binds to and dephosphorylates MST3 kinase. This, in turn, prevents STK25-mediated LATS1/2 phosphorylation, leading to YAP activation and CRC progression. Importantly, depletion of MST3 reciprocally promotes accumulation of cytosolic PGAM5 by inducing mitochondrial damage. Taken together, these findings demonstrate how mtROS promotes CRC progression by activating YAP via a post-transcriptional positive feedback loop between PGAM5 and MST3, both of which can serve as potential targets for developing next-generation anti-colon cancer therapeutics.
PXD059204	39915639	Integrated analysis of proteomics and metabolomics in infantile epileptic spasms syndrome. 	Integrated Analysis of Proteomics and Metabolomics in Infantile Epileptic Spasms Syndrome	Infantile Epileptic Spasms Syndrome, Linoleic Acid Metabolism, Metabolomics	Infantile Epileptic Spasms Syndrome (IESS) is a severe developmental epileptic encephalopathy that manifests in infancy, significantly impacting the health and quality of life of affected children. The treatment of IESS poses a significant challenge, primarily due to the incomplete understanding of its etiology and pathogenesis. Objective: This study aims to investigate the pathogenic mechanisms of IESS, utilizing metabolomics and proteomics analyses to uncover potential biomarkers for the disease, thereby providing new insights for diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. Cerebrospinal fluid samples from 6 IESS patients and 6 control subjects with benign intracranial hypertension were collected and analyzed using metabolomics and proteomics techniques. Significant differential metabolites and proteins were identified and correlated to determine key proteins associated with specific metabolites. The study then expanded the sample size to 10 per group and validated the identified proteins through ELISA analysis. A total of 24 differential metabolites (12 upregulated and 12 downregulated) and 79 differential proteins (18 upregulated and 61 downregulated) were identified. Metabolomic analysis suggests that linoleic acid is a highly noteworthy differential metabolite in the cerebrospinal fluid of IESS patients. The associated differential protein HLA-A and SEZ6L2 proteins were notably downregulated (p < 0.05). Linoleic acid and its metabolism-related proteins HLA-A and SEZ6L2 could serve as potential biomarkers for IESS, providing new insights into the complex pathogenic mechanisms of the disease. Additionally, these findings also assist in identifying new therapeutic targets and developing more effective treatment strategies.
PXD052286	39916318	Activity-Based Protein Profiling Identifies an alpha-Amylase Family Protein Contributing to the Virulence of Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus. 	Activity-Based Protein Profiling identifies an alpha-amylase family protein contributing to the virulence of Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus	chemoproteomics  activity-based probe  biofilm virulence	In search of new putative antimicrobial drug targets in methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, we aimed to identify and characterize retaining glycosidase activities in this bacterial pathogen. Using activity-based protein profiling (ABPP), a panel of 7 fluorescent probes was screened to detect activities of diverse retaining glycosidase families. Based on this, a cocktail of 3 biotinylated probes (targeting alpha-glucosidases, beta-galactosidases and alpha-fucosidases) was used for target enrichment and three glycoside hydrolase family proteins were identified by mass-spectrometry: 6-phospho-beta-glucosidase (BglA), alpha-amylase family protein trehalase C (TreC), and autolysin (Atl). The physiological relevance of previously uncharacterized BglA and TreC was addressed in CRISPRi and inhibitor studies with the putative TreC inhibitor alpha-cyclophellitol-aziridine. Silencing of treC did not affect bacterial growth in rich media, but reduced biofilm formation in vitro, and attenuated virulence during Galleria mellonella infection, warranting future investigations into the biochemical function of this enzyme.
PXD056083	39917413	Relaxation of mucosal fibronectin fibers in late gut inflammation following neutrophil infiltration in mice. 	Proteomics analysis of specific mucosal regions of Salmonella-infected mouse cecum	fibronectin, laser capture microdissection, salmonella	The continuously remodeled extracellular matrix (ECM) plays a pivotal role in gastrointestinal health and disease, yet its precise functions remain elusive. In this study, we employed laser capture microdissection combined with low-input proteomics to investigate ECM remodeling during Salmonella-driven inflammation. To complement this, we probed how fibronectin fiber tension is altered using a mechanosensitive peptide probe. While fibronectin fibers in healthy intestinal tissue are typically stretched, many lose their tension in intestinal smooth muscles only hours after infection, despite the absence of bacteria in that area. In contrast, within the mucosa, where Salmonella is present starting 12 h post infection, fibronectin fiber relaxation occurred exclusively during late-stage infection at 72 h and was localized to already existing clusters of infiltrated neutrophils. Using N-terminomics, we identified three new cleavage sites in fibronectin in the inflamed cecum. The unique, tissue layer-specific changes in the molecular compositions and ECM fiber tension revealed herein might trigger new therapeutic strategies to fight acute intestinal inflammation.
PXD054073	39918541	Multicenter Longitudinal Quality Assessment of MS-Based Proteomics in Plasma and Serum. 	Multi-center longitudinal quality assessment of MS-based proteomics in plasma and serum	Plasma, R package mpwR, Serum, round robin study	Advancing MS-based proteomics toward clinical applications evolves around developing standardized start-to-finish and fit-for-purpose workflows for clinical specimens. Steps along the method design involve the determination and optimization of several bioanalytical parameters such as selectivity, sensitivity, accuracy, and precision. In a joint effort, eight proteomics laboratories belonging to the MSCoreSys initiative including the CLINSPECT-M, MSTARS, DIASyM, and SMART-CARE consortia performed a longitudinal round-robin study to assess the analysis performance of plasma and serum as clinically relevant samples. A variety of LC-MS/MS setups including mass spectrometer models from ThermoFisher and Bruker as well as LC systems from ThermoFisher, Evosep, and Waters Corporation were used in this study. As key performance indicators, sensitivity, precision, and reproducibility were monitored over time. Protein identifications range between 300 and 400 IDs across different state-of-the-art MS instruments, with timsTOF Pro, Orbitrap Exploris 480, and Q Exactive HF-X being among the top performers. Overall, 71 proteins are reproducibly detectable in all setups in both serum and plasma samples, and 22 of these proteins are FDA-approved biomarkers, which are reproducibly quantified (CV < 20% with label-free quantification). In total, the round-robin study highlights a promising baseline for bringing MS-based measurements of serum and plasma samples closer to clinical utility.
PXD038745	39919786	DIS3L, cytoplasmic exosome catalytic subunit, is essential for development but not cell viability in mice. 	DIS3L, cytoplasmic exosome catalytic subunit, is essential for development  but not cell viability in mice.	DIS3L, RNA	Among numerous enzymes involved in RNA decay, processive exoribonucleases are the most prominent group responsible for the degradation of the entire RNA molecules. The role of mammalian cytoplasmic 3'-5' exonuclease DIS3L at the organismal level remained unknown. Herein, we established knock-in and knock-out mouse models to study DIS3L functions in mice. DIS3L in mice is indeed a subunit of the cytoplasmic exosome complex, the disruption of which leads to severe embryo degeneration and death in mice soon after implantation. These changes could not be prevented by supplementing extraembryonic tissue with functional DIS3L through the construction of chimeric embryos. Preimplantation Dis3l-/- embryos were unaffected in their morphology and ability to produce functional embryonic stem cells, showing that DIS3L is not essential for cell viability. There were also no major changes at the transcriptome level for both embryonic stem cells and blastocysts, as revealed by RNA sequencing experiments. Notably, however, Dis3l knock-out led to inhibition of the global protein synthesis. These results point to the essential role of DIS3L in mRNA metabolism, which is crucial for proper protein synthesis during embryo development.
PXD051616	39919828	Hao-Fountain syndrome protein USP7 controls neuronal differentiation via BCOR-ncPRC1.1. 	USP7, a protein involved in Hao-Fountain syndrome, controls neuronal differentiation via BCOR-ncPRC1.1	BCOR, DIA-MS, Hao-Fountain syndrome, PRM, USP7, label free quantitative proteomics, neuronal differentiation	Pathogenic variants in the ubiquitin-specific protease 7 (USP7) gene cause a neurodevelopmental disorder called Hao-Fountain syndrome. However, it remains unclear which of USP7's pleiotropic functions are relevant for neurodevelopment. Here, we present a combination of quantitative proteomics, transcriptomics, and epigenomics to define the USP7 regulatory circuitry during neuronal differentiation. USP7 activity is required for the transcriptional programs that direct both the differentiation of embryonic stem cells into neural stem cells and the neuronal differentiation of SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. USP7 controls the dosage of the Polycomb monubiquitylated histone H2A lysine 119 (H2AK119ub1) ubiquitin ligase complexes ncPRC1.1 and ncPRC1.6. Loss-of-function experiments revealed that BCOR-ncPRC1.1, but not ncPRC1.6, is a key effector of USP7 during neuronal differentiation. Indeed, BCOR-ncPRC1.1 mediates a major portion of USP7-dependent gene regulation during this process. Besides providing a detailed map of the USP7 regulome during neurodifferentiation, our results suggest that USP7- and ncPRC1.1-associated neurodevelopmental disorders involve dysregulation of a shared epigenetic network.
PXD047892	39920133	Bioprinting of bespoke islet-specific niches to promote maturation of stem cell-derived islets. 	Porcine pancreas tissue-derived decellularized extracellular matrix LC-MS/MS	Pancreas, extracellular matrix	Pancreatic islets are densely packed cellular aggregates containing various hormonal cell types essential for blood glucose regulation. Interactions among these cells markedly affect the glucoregulatory functions of islets along with the surrounding niche and pancreatic tissue-specific geometrical organization. However, stem cell (SC)-derived islets generated in vitro often lack the three-dimensional extracellular microenvironment and peri-vasculature, which leads to the immaturity of SC-derived islets, reducing their ability to detect glucose fluctuations and insulin release. Here, we bioengineer the in vivo-like pancreatic niches by optimizing the combination of pancreatic tissue-specific extracellular matrix and basement membrane proteins and utilizing bioprinting-based geometrical guidance to recreate the spatial pattern of islet peripheries. The bioprinted islet-specific niche promotes coordinated interactions between islets and vasculature, supporting structural and functional features resembling native islets. Our strategy not only improves SC-derived islet functionality but also offers significant potential for advancing research on islet development, maturation, and diabetic disease modeling, with future implications for translational applications.
PXD028368	39920693	Site-specific immunoglobulin G N-glycosylation is associated with gastric cancer progression. 	Profiling of IgG N-glycome in gastric cancer by MALDI-TOF-MS	Human serum, IgG, MALDI-MS, N-glycome, gastric cancer	BACKGROUND: The relationship between cancer development and alterations in IgG N-glycosylation has been well-established. However, comprehensive profiling of the N-glycome and N-glycoproteome in gastric cancer (GC) remains limited. Furthermore, the prognostic potential of IgG N-glycan patterns in identifying precursors to GC has yet to be fully elucidated. METHODS: The IgG N-glycome in GC was characterized using a custom high-throughput orthogonal mass spectrometry approach. Multivariate analysis was employed to identify and assess glycomic alterations. A comprehensive bioinformatics analysis was also conducted to investigate the differential expression of N-glycosylation-related genes and their potential roles in GC pathogenesis. Additionally, interleukin-11 (IL-11) levels were quantified using a standardized enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). RESULTS: Galactosylation and sialylation of IgG decreased mainly in the IgG1 and IgG2 subclasses in GC, with subclass-specific changes in IgG3 and IgG4 galactosylation. These glycan modifications were represented by unique glycopeptides (IgG1_H5N5, IgG2_H4N3F1, IgG2_H4N4, IgG2_H4N4F1S1, IgG3/4_H4N4F1, IgG3/4_H4N4F1S1), which outperformed CA72-4 for GC diagnosis. Analysis of key glycogenes revealed differential expression patterns, implicating a functional role for IgG N-glycosylation in GC. Notably, the abundance of specific IgG glycosylation exhibited a significant correlation with serum level of IL-11. CONCLUSIONS: Alterations in subclass-specific IgG N-glycosylation represent promising biomarkers for the detection and monitoring of GC progression, potentially influenced by cytokine-driven inflammation. Understanding these changes could improve our knowledge of molecular mechanisms, aiding in diagnostic improvements and therapeutic development.
PXD052925	39920757	Inhibition of tumour necrosis factor alpha by Etanercept attenuates Shiga toxin-induced brain pathology. 	Inhibition of tumour necrosis factor alpha by Etanercept attenuates Shiga toxin-induced brain pathology	EHEC (enterohemorrhagic E. coli), Etanercept, TNFalpha (tumour necrosis factor alpha), brain pathology, microglial activation	Infection with enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC) causes severe changes in the brain leading to angiopathy, encephalopathy and microglial activation. In this study, we investigated the role of tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) for microglial activation and brain pathology using a preclinical mouse model of EHEC infection. LC-MS/MS proteomics of mice injected with a combination of Shiga toxin (Stx) and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) revealed extensive alterations of the brain proteome, in particular enrichment of pathways involved in complement activation and coagulation cascades. Inhibition of TNF-alpha by the drug Etanercept strongly mitigated these changes, particularly within the complement pathway, suggesting TNF-alpha-dependent vasodilation and endothelial injury. Analysis of microglial populations using a novel human-in-the-loop deep learning algorithm for the segmentation of microscopic imaging data indicated specific morphological changes, which were reduced to healthy condition after inhibition of TNF-alpha. Moreover, the Stx/LPS-mediated angiopathy was significantly attenuated by inhibition of TNF-alpha. Overall, our findings elucidate the critical role of TNF-alpha in EHEC-induced brain pathology and highlight a potential therapeutic target for mitigating neuroinflammation, microglial activation and injury associated with EHEC infection.
PXD037845	39921204	Multiple classes of antigen contribute to the antigenic landscape of mesothelioma. 	Immunopeptidomics analysis of mesothelmia cell line	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Immunopeptidomics Mesothelmia HLA Proteomics ERV, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Immuno-Peptidome Project (HUPO-HIPP) (B/D-HPP)	Mesothelioma is an incurable, asbestos-exposure related cancer that typically affects the lining or pleura of the lungs. Symptoms typically develop many decades after initial exposure to asbestos, leaving an enduring legacy of disease. Current disease burden is peaking worldwide and thus there is a massive unmet clinical need for curative therapies. Recently, immune checkpoint blockade-based therapy has been adopted as a first-line of treatment for mesothelioma. Vaccine-induced augmentation of immune responses unleashed during checkpoint blockade may provide further clinical benefit in mesothelioma. In this study we explore the human leukocyte antigen class I landscape (or immunopeptidome) of mesothelioma in patient derived cell line and clinical material (pleural effusion samples). We identify a range of peptide antigens derived from targets including cancer testis antigens, endogenous retroviruses as well as novel post-translational modification of peptides. This information will facilitate the characterization of the immune response to these antigens to determine which class of antigen is most immunogenic and has the potential to be tested in future vaccine studies.
PXD060863	39921206	Region and cell-type resolved multi-omic altas of the heart. 	Region and cell-type resolved multi-omic altas of the heart	cell-type and region resolved, mouse heart	The heart is a vital muscular organ in vertebrate animals, responsible for maintaining blood circulation through rhythmic contraction. Although previous studies have investigated the heart proteome, the full hierarchical molecular network at cell-type and region resolved level, illustrating the specialized roles and crosstalk among different cell types and regions, remains unclear. Here, we presented an atlas of cell-type resolved proteome for mouse heart and region resolved proteome for both mouse and human hearts. In-depth proteomic analysis identified 11,794 proteins across four cell types and 11,995 proteins across six regions of the mouse heart. To further illustrate protein expression patterns in both physiological and pathological conditions, we conducted proteomic analysis on human heart samples from four regions with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM). We quantified 8,201 proteins in DCM tissue and 8,316 proteins in adjacent unaffected myocardium (AUM) tissue across the four human heart regions. Notably, we found that the retinoic acid synthesis pathway was significantly enriched in the DCM-affected left ventricle, and functional experiments demonstrated that all-trans retinoic acid (atRA) efficiently rescued Ang II-induced myocardial hypertrophy and transverse aorta constriction (TAC)- induced heart failure. In conclusion, our datasets uncovered the functional features of different cell types and their synergistic cooperation centered by cell-type specific transcription factors (ctsTF) in different regions, while these TF-TG (target gene) axes were significantly altered in DCM. Additionally, atRA was demonstrated to be an efficient treatment for heart failure. This work presented a panoramic heart proteome map, offering a valuable resource for future cardiovascular research.
PXD051850	39921859	Spatial proteomics identifies a CRTC-dependent viral signaling pathway that stimulates production of interleukin-11. 	Spatial proteomics identifies a novel CRTC-dependent viral sensing pathway that stimulates production of Interleukin-11	CRTC, Sendai virus, interleukin-11, systems virology, virus signalling	Appropriate cellular recognition of viruses is essential for the generation of an effective innate and adaptive immune response. Viral sensors and their downstream signaling components thus provide a crucial first line of host defense. Many of them exhibit subcellular relocalization upon activation, resulting in the expression of interferon and antiviral genes. To comprehensively identify signaling factors, we analyzed protein relocalization on a global scale during viral infection. cAMP-responsive element-binding protein (CREB)-regulated transcription coactivators 2 and 3 (CRTC2/3) exhibited early cytoplasmic-to-nuclear translocation upon infection with multiple viruses in diverse cell types. This movement was dependent on mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS), cyclo-oxygenase proteins, and protein kinase A. A key effect of CRTC2/3 translocation is transcription of the fibro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-11. This may be important clinically in viral infections associated with fibrosis, including SARS-CoV-2. Nuclear translocation of CRTC2/3 is, therefore, identified as an important pathway in the context of viral infection.
PXD041430	39921866	Nudix Hydrolase 13 Impairs the Initiation of Colorectal Cancer by Inhibiting PKM1 ADP-Ribosylation. 	Potential binding partners of NUDT13 in DLD-1	DLD-1, NUDT13	Metabolic dysregulation has been implicated as a key factor in colorectal cancer (CRC) initiation, however, the underlying driving forces and mechanisms remain poorly understood. Herein, transcriptome profiling of paired early-stage CRCs and adenomas identifies Nudix hydrolase 13 (NUDT13) as a critical suppressor. Elevated NUDT13 expression impedes the proliferation of CRC cells under hypoxic conditions and markedly inhibits CRC initiation by upregulating PKM1. Mechanistically, NUDT13 directly binds and stabilizes PKM1 protein by reducing its poly ADP-ribosylation (PARylation), which is catalyzed by PARP1 at E275/D281/E282/E285/D296, thereby inducing an oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) phenotype in CRC cells. Moreover, spatiotemporal knockout of Nudt13 enhances intestinal tumorigenesis in mice, which can be significantly suppressed by PARP1 inhibitor Olaparib. Notably, residues E245/E248/E249 within the Nudix box motif of NUDT13 are essential for PKM1 PARylation, and a mimic peptide derived from this motif is sufficient to stabilize PKM1 protein and robustly inhibit CRC tumorigenesis. Collectively, this study reveals a previously unknown PARylation-dependent mechanism that regulates PKM1 protein stability and switches the metabolic pathway of CRC cells, providing a promising target for CRC treatment.
PXD055049	39922311	Glycoproteoforms of osteoarthritis-associated lubricin in plasma and synovial fluid. 	Glycoproteoforms of osteoarthritis-associated lubricin in plasma and synovial fluid	LC-MS, Lubricin, OA, Plasma, Synovial Fluid	Lubricin/proteoglycan-4 (PRG-4) is a mucinous glycoprotein that lubricates cartilage and maintains normal tissue function and cell homeostasis. Altered O-glycoproteforms of lubricin have been found in osteoarthritis (OA) synovial fluid (SF), which could ostensibly be used to diagnose early onset OA. However, SF is invasive to obtain and generally would not be surveyed from otherwise healthy individuals. Thus, a plasma-based OA screening tool focused on lubricin glycosylation could be a less invasive method to aid in early-stage OA diagnosis. In this report, we used glycomics and glycoproteomics to characterize glycoproteoforms of OA lubricin in SF and plasma. We obtained near-complete sequence coverage of lubricin's mucin domain and its glycosylation using matched SF and plasma from OA patients (N=5). From SF lubricin we observed a spectrum of O-glycans ranging from a single GalNAcalpha1-Ser/Thr monosaccharide up to branched pentasaccharides. In contrast, plasma based lubricin was predominantly decorated with sialylated Galbeta1-3GalNAcalpha1-Ser/Thr (Sialyl T). To explain the glycosylation differences observed between SF and plasma lubricin, we present splice variant-specific peptides found within the non-glycosylated region, revealing that that the longest spliceoform of lubricin was present exclusively in SF, while additional shorter splice variants could only be detected in plasma. Based on our glycoproteomic data, we developed and validated a lectin assay for lubricin, and applied this on a larger cohort of matched SF/plasma (N=19) to confirm the glycosylation differences between SF and plasma proteoforms. Next, we leveraged our assay to screen over 100 OA patient samples (OA patients N=108/controls N=38) to probe plasma lubricin as an OA biomarker. Here, we detected a decrease in alpha2,6 linked sialic acid in OA patients and further show that the extent of alpha2,6 and alpha2,3 sialylation on plasma-associated lubricin correlated with patient characteristics, especially Body Mass Index (BMI).
PXD056815	39928568	Melatonin confers saline-alkali tolerance in tomato by alleviating nitrosative damage and S-nitrosylation of H+-ATPase 2. 	Melatonin confers saline-alkali tolerance by relieving nitrosative damage and S-nitrosylation of plasma membrane H+-ATPase 2 in tomato	Melatonin, Nitric oxide, Plasma membrane H+-ATPase 2, S-nitrosylation, Saline-alkali stress, Tomato	Soil salinization and alkalization disrupt redox homeostasis, impairing plant survival and crop production. Disruption of redox homeostasis can cause accumulation of reactive nitrogen species, such as nitric oxide (NO), which causes nitrosative damage in which the properties of biomacromolecules are altered. It is unclear whether melatonin regulates NO homeostasis, thereby affecting plant saline-alkali tolerance. In tomato (Solanum lycopersicum), excess NO caused by saline-alkali stress resulted in nitrosative damage, which was alleviated by S-nitrosoglutathione reductase (GSNOR). Moreover, saline-alkali stress-triggered NO stimulated caffeic acid O-methyltransferase (COMT) transcription and melatonin biosynthesis to scavenge excess NO and alleviate nitrosative damage at the proteome level. Under saline-alkali stress, plasma membrane-localized H+-ATPase 2 (HA2) was S-nitrosylated at Cys206, impairing its interaction with 14-3-3 protein 1 (TFT1). HA2 S-nitrosylation resulted in reduced HA activity, H+ efflux, and saline-alkali tolerance. Conversely, COMT-generated melatonin alleviated HA2 S-nitrosylation, recovering its function and tomato saline-alkali tolerance. Therefore, we propose that melatonin and NO are redox switches of HA2 S-nitrosylation for saline-alkali tolerance. Under natural saline-alkali conditions, tomato productivity was improved by grafting with COMT-, GSNOR-, or HA2-overexpressing rootstocks, or by generating non-nitrosylated HA2C206S mutants. By establishing the melatonin-NO-HA2 module, this study illuminates a molecular function of melatonin and suggests possible genetic engineering strategies to improve agriculture.
PXD058425	39929801	Mitofusin 2 displays fusion-independent roles in proteostasis surveillance. 	Mitofusin 2 displays fusion-independent roles in proteostasis surveillance	MFN2, mitochondria, protein quality control	Mitochondria are essential organelles and their functional state dictates cellular proteostasis. However, little is known about the molecular gatekeepers involved, especially in absence of external stress. Here we identify a role of MFN2 in quality control independent of its function in organellar shape remodeling. MFN2 ablation alters the cellular proteome, marked for example by decreased levels of the import machinery and accumulation of the kinase PINK1. Moreover, MFN2 interacts with the proteasome and cytosolic chaperones, thereby preventing aggregation of newly translated proteins. Similarly to MFN2-KO cells, patient fibroblasts with MFN2-disease variants recapitulate excessive protein aggregation defects. Restoring MFN2 levels re-establishes proteostasis in MFN2-KO cells and rescues fusion defects of MFN1-KO cells. In contrast, MFN1 loss or mitochondrial shape alterations do not alter protein aggregation, consistent with a fusion-independent role of MFN2 in cellular homeostasis. In sum, our findings open new possibilities for therapeutic strategies by modulation of MFN2 levels.
PXD058290	39929812	Trajectory analysis of hepatic stellate cell differentiation reveals metabolic regulation of cell commitment and fibrosis. 	TRAJECTORY ANALYSIS OF HEPATIC STELLATE CELL DIFFERENTIATION REVEALS METABOLIC REGULATION OF CELL COMMITMENT AND FIBROSIS	RORA, diHSCs, iPSCs, metabolic plasticity	Defining the trajectory of cells during differentiation and disease is key for uncovering the mechanisms driving cell fate and identity. However, trajectories of human cells remain largely unexplored due to the challenges of studying them with human samples. In this study, we investigate the proteome trajectory of iPSCs differentiation to hepatic stellate cells (diHSCs) and identify RORA as a key transcription factor governing the metabolic reprogramming of HSCs necessary for diHSCs' commitment, identity, and activation. Using RORA deficient iPSCs and pharmacologic interventions, we show that RORA is required for early differentiation and prevents diHSCs activation by reducing the high energetic state of the cells. While RORA knockout mice have enhanced fibrosis, RORA agonists rescue multi-organ fibrosis in in vivo models. Notably, RORA expression correlates negatively with liver fibrosis and HSCs activation markers in patients with liver disease. This study reveals that RORA regulates cell metabolic plasticity, important for mesoderm differentiation, pericyte quiescence, and fibrosis, influencing cell commitment and disease.
PXD056620	39930483	Proteomic profiling of human plasma and intervertebral disc tissue reveals matrisomal, but not plasma, biomarkers of disc degeneration. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of degenerated human intervertebral disc tissues	DDA, Intervertebral disc, degeneration, mass spectometry	BACKGROUND: Intervertebral disc (IVD) degeneration is a common cause of low back pain, and the most symptomatic patients with neural compression need surgical intervention to relieve symptoms. Current techniques used to diagnose IVD degeneration, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), do not detect changes in the tissue extracellular matrix (ECM) as degeneration progresses. Improved techniques, such as a combination of tissue and blood biomarkers, are needed to monitor the progression of IVD degeneration for more effective treatment plans. METHODS: To identify tissue and blood biomarkers associated with degeneration progression, we histologically graded 35 adult human degenerate IVD tissues and matched plasma from the individuals into two groups: mild degenerate and severe degenerate. Mass spectrometry was utilised to characterise proteomic differences in tissue and plasma between the two groups. Top differentially distributed proteins were further validated using immunohistochemistry and qRT-PCR. Additionally, correlational analyses were conducted to define similarities and differences between tissue and plasma protein changes in individuals with mild and severe IVD degeneration. RESULTS: Our data revealed that the abundance of 31 proteins was significantly increased in severe degenerated IVD tissues compared to mild. Functional analyses showed that more than 40% of these proteins were matrisome-related, indicating differences in ECM protein composition between severe and mild degenerate IVD tissues. We confirmed adipocyte enhancer-binding protein 1 (AEBP1) as one of the most significantly enriched core matrisome genes and proteins as degeneration progressed. Compared to others, AEBP1 protein levels best distinguished between mild and severe degenerated IVD tissues with an area under the curve score of 0.768 (95% CI: 0.60-0.93). However, we found that protein changes from associated plasma exhibited a weak relationship with histological grading and AEBP1 tissue levels. Given that systemic plasma changes are complex, a larger sample cohort may be required to identify patterns in blood relating to IVD degeneration progression. CONCLUSIONS: In this study, we have identified AEBP1 as a tissue marker for monitoring the severity of disc degeneration in humans. Further work to link alterations in tissue AEBP1 levels to changes in blood-related proteins will be beneficial for detailed monitoring of IVD degeneration thereby enabling more personalised treatment approaches.
PXD046544	39930594	Defining the heterogeneous composition of Arabidopsis thylakoid membrane. 	Arabidopsis thylakoid domains proteome	connecting domain, curvature, grana core, grana margins, stroma lamellae, thylakoid domains, thylakoid membrane	Thylakoid membrane (TM) of land plants is organized into an appressed domain (grana), enriched in photosystem (PS) II and a non-appressed domain (stroma lamellae) enriched in PSI. This ultrastructure controls the exciton spillover from PSII to PSI. The bulky machinery required for the biogenesis and repair of TM protein complexes is located in the non-appressed membranes. Thus, the connecting domain (CD) between grana and stroma lamellae is the key player in both the structural and functional integrity of the photosynthetic machinery. In addition, both the grana domain and the stroma lamellae are highly curved at their edges due to the action of the CURVATURE1 (CURT1) proteins, forming a domain distinct from the CD, called the curvature. Here we elucidate the biochemical properties and proteome composition of different thylakoid domains. To this end, the TM of Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis), isolated both in the natural stacked configuration and in an artificially unstacked configuration to induce a homogeneous protein composition, was solubilized and fractionated, using the mild detergent digitonin (DIG). Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, we characterize composition, distribution and interaction of proteins involved in TM function in grana, CD and stroma lamellae domains. We find that a subset of thylakoid protein complexes are readily solubilized into small vesicles by DIG and accumulate in a loose pellet (LP) together with CURT1. By combining an extensive biochemical and proteome characterization of the TM fractions we provide an optimized protocol and proteome maps that can be used as a basis for experimental design in photosynthesis research.
PXD051575	39931755	ISG15-Dependent Stabilisation of USP18 Is Necessary but Not Sufficient to Regulate Type I Interferon Signalling in Humans. 	A co-opted ISG15-USP18 binding mechanism normally reserved for deISGylation controls type I IFN signalling	ISG15, ISGylation, Interferon, signalling	Type I interferon (IFN) signalling induces the expression of several hundred IFN-stimulated genes (ISGs) that provide an unfavourable environment for viral replication. To prevent an overexuberant response and autoinflammatory disease, IFN signalling requires tight control. One critical regulator is the ubiquitin-like protein IFN-stimulated gene 15 (ISG15), evidenced by autoinflammatory disease in patients with inherited ISG15 deficiencies. Current models suggest that ISG15 stabilises ubiquitin-specific peptidase 18 (USP18), a well-established negative regulator of IFN signalling. USP18 also functions as an ISG15-specific peptidase that cleaves ISG15 from ISGylated proteins; however, USP18's catalytic activity is dispensable for controlling IFN signalling. Here, we show that the ISG15-dependent stabilisation of USP18 involves hydrophobic interactions reliant on tryptophan 123 (W123) in ISG15. Nonetheless, while USP18 stabilisation is necessary, it is not sufficient for the regulation of IFN signalling; ISG15 C-terminal mutants with significantly reduced affinity still stabilised USP18, yet the magnitude of signalling resembled ISG15-deficient cells. Hence, USP18 requires non-covalent interactions with the ISG15 C-terminal diGlycine motif to promote its regulatory function. It shows ISG15 is a repressor of type I IFN signalling beyond its role as a USP18 stabiliser.
PXD057431	39932098	Workflow for E3 Ligase Ligand Validation for PROTAC Development. 	A general workflow for E3 ligase ligand validation for PROTAC development	PROTAC, VHL, promiscious kinase inhibitor	Proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) have gained considerable attention as a new modality in drug discovery. The development of PROTACs has been mainly focused on using CRBN (Cereblon) and VHL (Von Hippel-Lindau ligase) E3 ligase ligands. However, the considerable size of the human E3 ligase family, newly developed E3 ligase ligands, and the favorable druggability of some E3 ligase families hold the promise that novel degraders with unique pharmacological properties will be designed in the future using this large E3 ligase space. Here, we developed a workflow aiming to improve and streamline the evaluation of E3 ligase ligand efficiency for PROTAC development and the assessment of the corresponding "degradable" target space using broad-spectrum kinase inhibitors and the well-established VHL ligand VH032 as a validation system. Our study revealed VH032 linker attachment points that are highly efficient for kinase degradation as well as some of the pitfalls when using protein degradation as a readout. For instance, cytotoxicity was identified as a major mechanism leading to PROTAC- and VHL-independent kinase degradation. The combination of E3 ligase ligand negative controls, competition by kinase parent compounds, and neddylation and proteasome inhibitors was essential to distinguish between VHL-dependent and -independent kinase degradation events. We share here the findings and limitations of our study and hope that this study will provide guidance for future evaluations of new E3 ligase ligand systems for degrader development.
PXD059854	39934129	FTO-associated osteoclastogenesis promotes alveolar bone resorption in apical periodontitis male rat via the HK1/USP14/RANK pathway. 	Differential protein expression in the alveolar bone tissue of rats with apical periodontitis	alveolar bone tissue, apical periodontitis, protein level	Alveolar bone resorption (ABR) is a key pathological manifestation in the development of apical periodontitis (AP) and contributes to the AP-associated tooth loss among AP patients in the clinic. However, the underlying mechanism of ABR development is largely unknown. Here we show, the total levels of N6-methyladenosine (m(6)A) were reduced in AP male rat alveolar bone tissues and BMDM-derived osteoclasts (OC), which was associated with the up-regulation of obesity-associated protein (FTO). Subsequently FTO-mediated hexokinase (HK1) demethylation modification enhancing glycolytic pathway that stabilizes receptor activator of NF-kappaB (RANK) protein via the deubiquitination activity of ubiquitin-specific protease 14 (USP14), which further promotes osteoclastogenesis to participate in the AP-related ABR development. Finally, Dac51 (an FTO inhibitor) and 2-DG (an HK1 inhibitor) both exhibit the inhibitory activity of osteoclastogenesis. Our current study reveals a molecular mechanism on osteoclastogenesis-related ABR and provides a therapeutic target of AP via modulating the FTO/HK1/USP14/RANK axis.
PXD058632	39934660	Transcriptomic, metabonomic and proteomic analyses reveal that terpenoids and flavonoids are required for Pinus koraiensis early defence against Bursaphelenchus xylophilus infection. 	Proteome study of Pinus koraiensis infected by pine wood nematode based on 4D DIA	Pinus koraiensis, pine wood nematode	Pine wilt disease (PWD), caused by the pine wood nematode (PWN) Bursaphelenchus xylophilus, threatens Pinus seriously. Pinus koraiensis is one of the most important pine species in China and is the host for PWN. However, our understanding of the defence-regulating process following infection by B. xylophilus at the molecular level remains limited. To understand the mechanisms that P. koraiensis responds to B. xylophilus invasion, P. koraiensis was inoculated with B. xylophilus solutions and observed no obvious symptoms during the early stage; symptoms began to appear at 5 dpi. Therefore, we conducted comparative transcriptomic, metabonomic and proteomic analyses between P. koraiensis 5dpi and 0 dpi. In infected plants, 1574 genes were significantly up-regulated, including 17 terpenoid-, 41 phenylpropanoid- and 22 flavonoid-related genes. According to GO and KEGG enrichment analyses of significantly up-regulated genes, 86 GO terms and 16 KEGG pathways were significantly enriched. Most terms and pathways were associated with terpenoid-, phenylpropanoid-, flavonoid- and carbohydrate-related events. Similarly, the abundance of 36 and 30 metabolites, significantly increased in positive and negative polarity modes, respectively. Among them, naringenin and 3-methyl-2-oxovaleric acid exhibited significant toxic effects on B. xylophilus. According to functional analysis of significantly up-regulated metabolites, most terms were enriched in above pathways, in addition to alkaloid biosynthesis. Although the abundance of few proteins changed, response to stress term was significantly enriched in significant up-regulated proteins. Furthermore, plant receptor-like serine/threonine kinases, pectin methylation modulators, pinosylvin O-methyltransferase and arabinogalactan/proline-rich proteins were significantly up-regulated in the infected P. koraiensis compared to healthy plants. These proteins were not abundant in the healthy plant. Overall, these results indicate that P. koraiensis can actively response to PWN via various defense strategies, including events related to terpenoids, flavonoids, phenylpropanoids, lipids and alkaloids. Particularly, terpenoids and flavonoids are required for the early defence of P. koraiensis against B. xylophilus infection.
PXD063569	39935887	Dynamic global acetylation remodeling during the yeast heat shock response. 	Dynamic global acetylation remodeling during the yeast heat shock response	TMT, acetylome, heat shock, stress	All organisms experience stress and must rapidly respond to changing conditions. Thus, cells have evolved sophisticated rapid-response mechanisms such as post-translational protein modification to rapidly and reversibly modulate protein activity. One such post-translational modification is reversible lysine acetylation, where proteomic studies have identified thousands of acetylated proteins across diverse organisms. While the sheer size of the 'acetylome' is striking, the function of acetylation for the vast majority of proteins remains largely obscure. Here, we show that global acetylation plays a previously unappreciated role in the heat shock response of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We find that dysregulated acetylation renders cells heat sensitive, and moreover, that the acetylome is globally remodeled during heat shock over time. Using quantitative acetyl-proteomics, we identified ~400 high-confidence acetyl marks across ~200 proteins that significantly change in acetylation when cells are shifted to elevated temperature. Proteins with significant changes in lysine acetylation during heat shock strongly overlap with genes induced or repressed by stress. Thus, we hypothesize that protein acetylation augments the heat shock response by activating induced proteins and inactivating repressed proteins. Intriguingly, we find nearly 40 proteins with at least two acetyl marks that significantly change in the opposite directions. These proteins are strongly enriched for chaperones and ribosomal proteins, suggesting that these two key processes are coordinately regulated by protein acetylation during heat shock. Moreover, we hypothesize that the same type of activating and inactivating marks that exist on histones may be a general feature of proteins regulated by acetylation. Overall, this work has identified a new layer of post-translational regulation that likely augments the classic heat shock response.
PXD059362	39936033	Proteomic analysis of whole blood to investigate the therapeutic effects of nervonic acid on cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats. 	Proteomic analysis of whole blood to investigate the therapeutic effects of nervonic acid on cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury in rats	Whole blood proteome, cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury, mechanism, nervonic acidginkgo biloba extract	Introduction: Blood proteomics offers a powerful approach for identifying disease-specific biomarkers. However, no reliable blood markers are currently available for the diagnosis stroke. Nervonic acid (NA), a vital long-chain monounsaturated fatty acid found in mammalian nervous tissue, shows promising therapeutic potential in neurological disorders. This study aimed to develop a reliable methodology for whole blood proteomics to identify early warning biomarkers and evaluate drug treatment efficacy. Methods: After modeling via the classic thread embolization method, whole blood samples were collected from the rats. Morphological assessments of brain tissue indicated that NA significantly mitigated brain and neuronal damage in rats. The differential protein expression profile was analyzed using Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) whole blood proteomics. Results: ZZZGene Ontology (GO) analysis revealed that, compared to ginkgo biloba extract (EGb), the proteins differentially expressed under NA intervention were predominantly involved in oxidative stress response and calcium-dependent adhesion processes. Key targets of NA in the treatment of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) models included ENO1, STAT3, NME2, VCL, and CCT3. Discussion: This whole blood proteomic approach provides a comprehensive understanding of protein profiles associated with disease states, offering valuable insights into potential therapeutic targets and enabling the evaluation of NA and EGb intervention efficacy. Our findings underscore the protective effects of NA against cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury and highlight its potential as a treatment for stroke.
PXD059409	39936917	FBXO45 restricts HIV-1 replication by inducing SQSTM1/p62-mediated autophagic degradation of Tat. 	Identification of host factors interacting with HIV-1 Tat	HIV-1 Tat, Turbo-ID	As a key regulator of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) transcription, Tat plays an essential role in viral replication and latency, making it a promising target for designing viral control strategies. Identifying host factors that modulate Tat and exploring the underlying mechanisms will benefit our understanding of HIV-1 transcriptional regulation and provide valuable insights into Tat-based therapeutic strategies. Here, by employing the TurboID approach, we discovered high-affinity binding between FBXO45 and Tat. Our findings demonstrate that FBXO45 negatively regulates Tat by promoting Tat ubiquitination and directing it to autophagic degradation. Autophagic degradation of Tat has been reported, but the specific underlying mechanisms remain unidentified. We elucidated this issue by providing evidence that FBXO45-mediated Tat polyubiquitination is an essential prerequisite for this process. Silencing of FBXO45 leads to a deficiency of autophagy receptor SQSTM1/p62 to bind and facilitate the autophagic degradation of Tat. Our results further underscore the crosstalk between post-translational modifications of Tat by demonstrating that the phosphorylation site of the Tat S62 residue is required for ubiquitination induced by FBXO45. Furthermore, in the context of the regulation of HIV-1, FBXO45 inhibits viral replication and maintains the latency of HIV-1 by suppressing viral transcription. Importantly, FBXO45 overexpression significantly attenuated viral rebound after antiretroviral therapy withdrawal. In summary, our findings suggest a novel role for FBXO45 in regulating HIV-1 replication by inducing the ubiquitination and SQSTM1/p62-dependent autophagic degradation of Tat. Considering the indispensable role of Tat in the regulation of HIV-1 replication and reactivation, FBXO45 may be a potential target for therapeutic intervention against HIV-1.IMPORTANCEHIV-1 Tat plays an indispensable role in regulating viral transcription and is a promising target for achieving a functional cure for AIDS. Identifying the host factors that modulate Tat expression could benefit the development of anti-HIV-1 strategies targeting Tat. Using TurboID assay, we identified a significant interaction between FBXO45 and Tat. Functionally, FBXO45 ubiquitinates and directs Tat for SQSTM1/p62-mediated autophagic degradation, thereby effectively restricting HIV-1 replication and maintaining HIV-1 latency by suppressing Tat-dependent viral transcription. These findings uncover a novel role for FBXO45 in regulating Tat and broaden our understanding of the host mechanisms involved in Tat processing.
PXD056717	39936982	Loss of gamma-aminobutyric acid D-Type Motor Neurons in Young Adult Caenorhabditis elegans Following Exposition with Silica Nanoparticles. 	Loss of GABAergic D-type motor neurons in young adult Caenorhabditis elegans after exposition with silica nanoparticles	C. elegans, GABAergic D-type motor neurons, environmental pollutants, nanoscale silica, neurodegeneration	Although Caenorhabditis elegans is commonly used to assess the neurotoxicity of environmental pollutants, studies that explore the intricate biology of its nervous system, particularly those addressing long-term effects and aging in adult worms, are rare. These models offer significant advantages for understanding the full spectrum of neurobiological impacts. Here, we investigated the effects of silica nanomaterials on the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neural system in young to middle-aged nematodes and found a unique degeneration pattern characterized by loss of anterior- and posteriormost GABAergic D-type motor neurons. Four-day-old nematodes were identified as a vulnerable age group, where the pollutant-accelerated neurodegeneration that is typically seen in old C. elegans. Proteomics of 4-day-old C. elegans revealed significant alterations of protein abundance, including the downregulation of proteins such as glutamate dehydrogenase (gdh-1) and glutamate oxaloacetate transaminase (got-1.2), which are essentially involved in GABA metabolic pathways. Consistent with these findings, we demonstrated locomotion deficits in C. elegans exposed to nanoscale silica by establishing a semi-automated behavioral arena. Our setup not only visualizes but also automatically quantifies vulnerabilities at the individual worm level. This novel neurodegeneration model now enables the simulation of real-world pollutant mixtures and environmental conditions, capturing the complexity of the exposome.
PXD053175	39937911	Nonstop mutations cause loss of renal tumor suppressor proteins VHL and BAP1 and affect multiple stages of protein translation. 	In vivo RNA Affinity Purification of wildtype and nonstop mutant VHL tumor suppressor mRNA	Nonstop mutation, RAP, RNA affinity purification, VHL, nonstop extension mutation, protein isoform, start codon, stop-loss, translation initiation, von Hippel Lindau	Nonstop extension or stop-loss mutations lead to the extension of a protein at its carboxyl terminus. Recently, nonstop mutations in the tumor suppressor SMAD Family Member 4 (SMAD4) have been discovered to lead to proteasomal SMAD4 degradation. However, this mutation type has not been studied in other cancer genes. Here, we explore somatic nonstop mutations in the tumor suppressor genes BRCA1 Associated Protein 1 (BAP1) and Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) enriched in renal cell carcinoma. For BAP1, nonstop mutations generate an extremely long extension. Instead of proteasomal degradation, the extension decreases translation and depletes BAP1 messenger RNA from heavy polysomes. For VHL, the short extension leads to proteasomal degradation. Unexpectedly, the mutation alters the selection of the translational start site shifting VHL isoforms. We identify germline VHL nonstop mutations in patients leading to the early onset of severe disease manifestations. In summary, nonstop extension mutations inhibit the expression of renal tumor suppressor genes with pleiotropic effects on translation and protein stability.
PXD048501	39937919	Targeted approach to determine the impact of cancer-associated protease variants. 	Targeted approach to determine the impact of cancer-associated protease variants	N-terminomics, SNVs, cancer, cancer-associated variants, cleavage specificity, meprin beta, migration, organotypic brain slices, proteases, spheroids	Several steps of cancer progression, from tumor onset to metastasis, critically involve proteolytic activity. To elucidate the role of proteases in cancer, it is particularly important to consider single-nucleotide variants (SNVs) that affect the active site of proteases, thereby influencing cleavage specificity, substrate processing, and thus cancer cell behavior. To facilitate systematic studies, we here present a targeted approach to determine the impact of cancer-associated protease variants (TACAP). Starting with the semiautomated identification of potential specificity-modulating SNVs, our workflow comprises mass spectrometry-based cleavage specificity profiling and substrate identification, localization, and inhibitor studies, followed by functional analyses investigating cancer cell properties. To demonstrate the feasibility of TACAP, we analyzed the meprin beta R238Q variant. This amino acid exchange R238Q leads to a loss of meprin beta's characteristic cleavage preference for acidic amino acids at P1' position, accompanied with changes in substrate pool and inhibitor affinity compared to meprin beta wild type.
PXD033761	39938190	Hyperinsulinemic male LEW.1WR1 rats show early signs of impaired liver metabolism. 	Insulin Resistance in a Type 1 Diabetes Rat Model	Insulin Resistance, Multiplexing, Type 1 Diabetes, cPILOT	Weanling LEW.1WR1 (1WR1) rats are susceptible to type 1 diabetes (T1D) and hyperinsulinemic. Similar to human patients with T1D, these animals are susceptible to developing fatty liver infiltrates. Insulin resistance-related steatosis can lead to the development of severe forms of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Previous work in 1WR1 rats suggests that in the absence of T1D, they have increased body mass that is not reconciled by measuring their abdominal fat pads; this suggests 1WR1 rats have an underlying predisposition to store fat in the liver unrelated to diabetes status. We hypothesized that 1WR1 rats show early signs of NAFLD development. We assessed proteomics changes in the livers of glucose intolerant and hyperinsulinemic young adult 1WR1 rats to identify early detectable characteristics of NAFLD development. Our results show young adult 1WR1 rats have UBD/FAT10 gene over expression in the liver. Additionally, they have decreased mitochondrial protein levels, which may lead to lipid accumulation in the liver. A quantitative proteomic analysis showed protein expression related to branch chain fatty acid metabolism, fatty acid beta-oxidation, and oxidative phosphorylation in the liver is significantly different in 1WR1 rats compared to control LEW/SsNHsd (SsNHsd) rats. In summary, our study shows that 1WR1 rats developed early characteristics of mitochondrial dysfunction and insulin resistance in the liver independent of T1D, which are commonly observed with NAFLD development.
PXD057205	39940785	Secretome and Proteome of Extracellular Vesicles Provide Protein Markers of Lung and Colorectal Cancer. 	Mass-spectrometry analysis of secretome and extracellular vesicles derived from lung and colorectal cell lines	A549, Caco2, Extracellular vesicles, HCT116, NCI-H23, NCI-H460, and HT-29 cell lines, colorectal cancer, lung cancer, secretome	Colorectal cancer (CRC) and lung cancer (LC) are leading causes of cancer-related mortality, highlighting the need for minimally invasive diagnostic, prognostic, and predictive markers for these cancers. Proteins secreted by a tumor into the extracellular space directly, known as the tumor secretome, as well as proteins in the extra-cellular vesicles (EVs), represent an attractive source of biomarkers for CRC and LC. We performed proteomic analyses on secretome and EV samples from LC (A549, NCI-H23, NCI-H460) and CRC (Caco2, HCT116, HT-29) cell lines and targeted mass spectrometry on EVs from plasma samples of 20 patients with CRC and 19 healthy controls. A total of 782 proteins were identified across the CRC and LC secretome and EV samples. Of these, 22 and 44 protein markers were significantly elevated in the CRC and LC samples, respectively. Functional annotation revealed enrichment in proteins linked to metastasis and tumor progression for both cancer types. In EVs isolated from the plasma of patients with CRC, ITGB3, HSPA8, TUBA4A, and TLN1 were reduced, whereas FN1, SERPINA1, and CST3 were elevated, compared to healthy controls. These findings support the development of minimally invasive liquid biopsy methods for the detection, prognosis, and treatment monitoring of LC and CRC.
PXD054939	39940790	Identification of MCM2-Interacting Proteins Associated with Replication Initiation Using APEX2-Based Proximity Labeling Technology. 	APEX2-MCM2 proximity labeling with high-resolution quantitative mass spectrometry in ESC	APEX2, DNA replication, MCM2, Proximity labeling	DNA replication is a crucial biological process that ensures the accurate transmission of genetic information, underpinning the growth, development, and reproduction of organisms. Abnormalities in DNA replication are a primary source of genomic instability and tumorigenesis. During DNA replication, the assembly of the pre-RC at the G1-G1/S transition is a crucial licensing step that ensures the successful initiation of replication. Although many pre-replication complex (pre-RC) proteins have been identified, technical limitations hinder the detection of transiently interacting proteins. The APEX system employs peroxidase-mediated rapid labeling with high catalytic efficiency, enabling protein labeling within one minute and detection of transient protein interactions. MCM2 is a key component of the eukaryotic replication initiation complex, which is essential for DNA replication. In this study, we fused MCM2 with enhanced APEX2 to perform in situ biotinylation. By combining this approach with mass spectrometry, we identified proteins proximal to the replication initiation complex in synchronized mouse ESCs and NIH/3T3. Through a comparison of the results from both cell types, we identified some candidate proteins. Interactions between MCM2 and the candidate proteins CD2BP2, VRK1, and GTSE1 were confirmed by bimolecular fluorescence complementation. This research establishes a basis for further study of the component proteins of the conserved DNA replication initiation complex and the transient regulatory network involving its proximal proteins.
PXD060092	39940885	Evaluation of Serum Supplementation on the Development of Haemonchus contortus Larvae In Vitro and on Compound Screening Results. 	Evaluation of serum supplementation on the development of Haemonchus contortus larvae in vitro and on compound screening results	Haemonchus contortus, an-thelmintic screening, in vitro culture, parasitic nematode, serum supplementation	A high-throughput platform for assessing the activity of synthetic or natural compounds on the motility and development of Haemonchus contortus larvae has been established for identifying new anthelmintic compounds active against strongylid nematodes. This study evaluated the impact of serum supplementation on larval development, motility and survival in vitro and its implications for phenotypic compound screening. Of five blood components assessed, 7.5% sheep serum significantly enhanced larval development, motility and survival compared to the original medium (LB*), leading to the formulation of an improved medium (LBS*). Proteomic analysis revealed marked differences in protein expression in larvae cultured in LBS* versus LB*, including molecules associated with structural integrity and metabolic processes. The phenotypic screening of 240 compounds ("Global Priority Box" from Medicines Malaria Venture) using LBS* yielded results distinct from those in LB*, highlighting the effect of culture conditions on screening assessments. These findings indicate/emphasise the critical need to evaluate and optimise culture media for physiologically relevant conditions in screening platforms, improving the reliability of anthelmintic discovery.
PXD058024	39940913	Promyelocytic Leukemia Protein (PML) Regulates Stem Cell Pluripotency Through Novel Sumoylation Targets. 	PML regulates stem cell pluripotency through novel sumoy-lation targets: SUMO Proteomics	Cell Division Cycle Associated 8 (CDCA8), Embryonic stem cells: ES cells, Promyelocytic Leukemia protein (PML), Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier (SUMO), Spalt Homology 1 (SALL1)	The promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) and its associated nuclear bodies have recently emerged as critical regulators of embryonic stem (ES) cell identity. Despite their recognized importance, the complete spectrum of PML-mediated molecular events in ES cells remains unclear. In this report, we study how PML is shaping the proteomic and SUMO proteomic landscape in ES cells. Proteomic profiling of PML-depleted ES cells uncovered a downregulation of self-renewal factors and an upregulation of proteins associated with translation and proteasomal activity, reflecting a cellular transition from pluripotency to differentiation. Importantly, PML promotes the sumoylation of pluripotency-related factors, chromatin organizers, and cell cycle regulators. We identified SALL1 and CDCA8 as novel PML-directed sumoylation targets, both critical for ES cell maintenance. SALL1 sumoylation increases the activation of the Wnt pathway, contributing to its ability to inhibit ES cell differentiation. Similarly, CDCA8 sumoylation enhances its capacity to promote cell proliferation. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that PML regulates ES cell identity by modulating the abundance or sumoylation of key regulators involved in pluripotency and cell cycle progression.
PXD058676	39941159	Quantitative Proteomic Analysis of Lysine Malonylation in Response to Salicylic Acid in the Roots of Platycodon grandiflorus. 	Quantitative Analysis of Lysine Malonylation Proteome Unravels Physiological and Biochemical Mechanism in Responding to Salicylic Acid in Roots of Platycodon grandiflorus	Lysine malonylation, Medicinal plants, Platycodon grandiflorus, Post-translational modification., Qualitative proteome, Salicylic acid	Salicylic acid, as a plant hormone, significantly affects the physiological and biochemical indexes of soluble sugar, malondialdehyde content, peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase enzyme activity in Platycodon grandiflorus. Lysine malonylation is a post-translational modification that involves various cellular functions in plants, though it is rarely studied, especially in medicinal plants. In this study, the aim was to perform a comparative quantitative proteomic study of malonylation modification on P. grandiflorus root proteins after salicylic acid treatment using Western blot with specific antibodies, affinity enrichment and LC-MS/MS analysis methods. The analysis identified 1907 malonyl sites for 809 proteins, with 414 proteins and 798 modification sites quantified with high confidence. Post-treatment, 361 proteins were upregulated, and 310 were downregulated. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that malonylation in P. grandiflorus is primarily involved in photosynthesis and carbon metabolism. Physiological and biochemical analysis showed that salicylic acid treatment increased the malondialdehyde levels, soluble protein, superoxide dismutase, and peroxidase activity but did not significantly affect the total saponins content in P. grandiflorus. These findings provide an important basis for exploring the molecular mechanisms of P. grandiflorus following salicylic acid treatment and enhance understanding of the biological function of protein lysine malonylation in plants.
PXD054446	39943201	miR-215 Modulates Ubiquitination to Impair Inflammasome Activation and Autophagy During Salmonella Typhimurium Infection in Porcine Intestinal Cells. 	LFQ proteomics miR-215 in Salmonella Typhimurium infected porcine intestinal cells	miR-215, pig, salmonellosis	The host response to S. Typhimurium infection can be post-transcriptionally regulated by miRNAs. In this study, we investigated the role of miR-215 using both in vivo porcine infection models and in vitro intestinal epithelial cell lines. Several miRNAs were found to be dysregulated in the porcine ileum during infection with wild-type and SPI2-defective mutant strains of S. Typhimurium, with some changes being SPI2-dependent. Notably, miR-215 was significantly downregulated during infection. To explore its functional role, gain-of-function experiments were performed by transfecting porcine intestinal epithelial cells (IPEC-J2) with a miR-215-5p mimic, followed by label-free quantitative (LFQ) proteomic analysis. This analysis identified 157 proteins, of which 35 were downregulated in response to miR-215 overexpression, suggesting they are potential targets of this miRNA. Among these, E2 small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO)-conjugating enzyme UBC9 and E3 ubiquitin-ligase HUWE1 were identified as key targets, both of which are upregulated during S. Typhimurium infection. The miR-215-mediated downregulation of these proteins resulted in a significant decrease in overall ubiquitination, a process crucial for regulating inflammasome activation and autophagy. Consistently, inflammasome markers caspase 1 (CASP1) and apoptosis-associated speck-like protein containing a CARD (ASC), as well as autophagy markers microtubule-associated protein 1A/1B-light chain 3 (LC3B) and Ras-related protein Rab-11 (RAB11A), showed decreased expression in miR-215 mimic-transfected and infected IPEC-J2 cells. To further validate these findings, human intestinal epithelial cells (HT29) were used as a complementary model, providing additional insights into conserved immune pathways and extending the observations made in the porcine system. Overall, our findings demonstrate that miR-215 plays a significant role in modulating host inflammasome activation and autophagy by targeting proteins involved in ubiquitination during S. Typhimurium infection.
PXD058927	39943965	Effect of potato glycoside alkaloids on mitochondria energy metabolism of Fusarium solani, the root rot pathogen of Lycium barbarum. 	Effect of potato glycoside alkaloids on mitochondrial protein of Fusarium solani	Fusarium solani, Potato glycoside alkaloids, energy metabolism, mitochondrion	Fusarium solani is a widely distributed pathogenic fungus that can cause soil borne diseases in various plants and is also one of the main pathogenic bacteria of Lycium barbarum root rot. This study employed tandem mass labeling (TMT) quantitative proteomics technology to investigate the antifungal mechanism of potato glycoside alkaloids (PGA) against Fusarium solani. We elucidated the antifungal mechanism of PGA from the perspective of mitochondrial proteome molecular biology. Furthermore, we identified and annotated the differentially expressed proteins (DEP) of F. solani under PGA stress. A total of 2,412 DEPs were identified, among which 1,083 were significantly up-regulated and 1,329 significantly down-regulated. Subsequent analysis focused on five DEPs related to energy metabolism for verification at both protein and gene levels. Gene Ontology (GO) function analysis revealed that the DEPs were primarily involved in the integral component of the membrane, intrinsic component of the membrane, pyridine-containing compound metabolic processes, carbon-oxygen lyase activity, and the endoplasmic reticulum, with a notable enrichment in membrane components. Furthermore, a total of 195 pathways were identified through KEGG analysis, with significant enrichment in critical pathways including pentose and glucuronate interconversions, propanoate metabolism, various types of N-glycan biosynthesis, the pentose phosphate pathway, and carbon fixation in photosynthetic organisms. The results from both parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) and real-time RT-qPCR were consistent with the overall trends observed in TMT proteomics, thereby confirming the validity of the TMT proteomics analysis. These findings indicate that PGA inhibits the growth of F. solani by impacting mitochondrial energy metabolism. This study reveals the antifungal mechanism of PGA from the perspective of energy metabolism, providing a theoretical basis for the development and application of PGA as a biopesticide.
PXD054290	39945065	Age-Related Impairments in Immune Cell Efferocytosis and Autophagy Hinder Atherosclerosis Regression. 	Mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) loaded with atherogenic LDL	Ageing, Atherosclerosis, Murine, Primary Cells	BACKGROUND: Aging is a well-established risk factor for the development and progression of atherosclerosis, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this relationship remain poorly defined, and its role in atherosclerosis regression is unknown. To uncover age-related alterations that may impair atherosclerosis regression, we investigated the response of young and old macrophages to atherogenic lipoproteins in vitro and in vivo. METHODS: Metabolic and proteomic studies were performed in vitro using macrophages differentiated from the bone marrow of young or old mice. To test the role of immune cell aging in atherosclerosis regression, bone marrow from young and old donors was transplanted into irradiated young recipient mice expressing gain-of-function AAV-PCSK9. Following 14 weeks of Western diet feeding, atherosclerosis regression was induced by switching to a standard laboratory diet for 4 weeks. RESULTS: Compared with young macrophages, old macrophages accumulated more lipid droplets upon lipid loading with the pro-atherogenic lipoprotein aggregated LDL (low-density lipoprotein), accompanied by a failure to proportionally induce autophagy and cholesterol efflux. Proteomic analysis of bone marrow-derived macrophages revealed that pathways related to endocytosis, engulfment, and phagocytosis were downregulated in old lipid-loaded macrophages. Functional studies confirmed a reduction in efferocytic capacity in old macrophages. In recipient mice transplanted with old bone marrow, atherosclerosis regression was impaired, as evidenced by inefficient resolution of circulating inflammatory cell levels, reduced activation of plaque autophagy and apoptotic cell clearance, and persistent plaque CD45(+) and CD68(+) content. CONCLUSIONS: Aging impairs macrophage function through reduced efferocytosis and autophagy activation, limiting atherosclerosis regression. These results highlight the need to better define the mechanisms linking aging to atherosclerosis to develop targeted therapies for the aging population.
PXD051909	39947398	HEXB drives raised paucimannosylation in colorectal cancer and stratifies patient risk. 	Glycoproteomics and proteomics analysis of LIM2405 Cell Line	Colorectal Cancer, LIM2405, glycoproteomics	Non-invasive prognostic markers are needed to improve the survival of colorectal cancer (CRC) patients. Towards this goal, we applied untargeted systems glycobiology approaches to snap frozen and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tumor tissues and peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from CRC patients spanning different disease stages and matching controls to faithfully uncover molecular changes associated with CRC. Quantitative glycomics and immunohistochemistry (IHC) revealed that non-canonical paucimannosidic N-glycans are elevated in CRC tumors relative to normal adjacent tissues. Cell origin-focused glycoproteomics enabled using the well-curated Human Protein Atlas combined with IHC of CRC tumor tissues recapitulated these findings and indicated that the paucimannosidic proteins were in part from tumor-infiltrating monocytes (e.g. MPO, AZU1) and of CRC cell origin (e.g. LGALS3BP, PSAP). Biosynthetically explaining these observations, N-acetyl-beta-D-hexosaminidase (Hex) subunit beta (HEXB) was found to be over-expressed in CRC tissues relative to normal adjacent colorectal tissues and colocalization and enzyme inhibition studies confirmed that HEXB facilitates paucimannosidic protein biosynthesis in CRC cells. Employing a sensitive, quick and robust enzyme activity assay, we then showed that Hex activity was elevated in plasma and PBMCs from patients with advanced CRC relative to controls and those with early-stage disease. Surveying a large plasma cohort, the plasma Hex activity was found to be raised in CRC patients relative to normal controls and correlated with the five-year survival of CRC patients indicating that elevated plasma Hex activity is a potential disease risk marker for patient outcome. Our glycoproteomics-driven findings open avenues for better prognostication and disease risk stratification in CRC.
PXD057784	39948392	Molecular mechanisms of lung injury from ultra high and conventional dose rate pulsed radiation based on 4D DIA proteomics study. 	Study of molecular mechanisms in lung injury due to ultra-high and conventional dose rate pulsed radiation based on 4D-DIA proteomics	FLASH effect, FLASH radiotherapy, Radiation-induced lung injury, Ultra-high dose rate, fibrosis	To investigate the mechanism of ultra-high dose rate pulsed radiation in radiation-induced lung injury (RILI), providing an experimental and theoretical basis for the application of FLASH-RT (FLASH-radiotherapy) in radiotherapy. C57BL/6J mice were randomly divided into three groups: a sham group, a FLASH-irradiated group, and a CONV-irradiated group. A whole-body irradiation with a single dose of 3 Gy (200 Gy/s for FLASH group and 0.3 Gy/s for CONV group) using electron rays was used to establish models of lung injury. After 3 months, lung tissues were stained with HE and Masson stains to observe pathological changes in lung tissue and subjected to 4D-Fast DIA quantitative proteomics, with the sequencing data validated by Western blot and immunofluorescence. The mice in FLASH group had less lung tissue damage and lower levels of fibrosis compared to the CONV group. Proteomic sequencing showed significant differences in CCT6b protein expression between the two irradiation groups. As verified by the WB and immunofluorescence assays, the expression level of CCT6b was significantly reduced in the CONV group of mice compared with the SHAM and FLASH groups. With the down-regulation of CCT6b, there was a notable decrease in the expression of E-cadherin, accompanied by an increase in the expression of alpha-smooth muscle actin and Vimentin. The differential response in the level of lung fibrosis caused by the two types of radiation may be related to the level of CCT6b expression, but the specific mechanism of action needs to be further investigated.
PXD054347	39948634	Blood biomarker fingerprints in a cohort of patients with CHRNE-related congenital myasthenic syndrome. 	Blood biomarkers in a cohort of patients with CHRNE-associated congenital myasthenic syndrome	CMS amino acids, CMS biomarkers, CMS extracellular vesicles, CMS metabolites, CMS miRNA, CMS white blood cells, PLEC	Mutations in CHRNE encoding the epsilon subunit of acetylcholine receptor result in impaired neuromuscular transmission and congenital myasthenic syndrome (CMS) with variying severity of symptoms. Although the pathophysiology is well-known, blood biomarker signatures enabling a patient-stratification are lacking. This retrospective two-center-study includes 19 recessive CHRNE-patients (AChR deficiency; mean age 14.8 years) from 13 families which were clinically characterized according to disease severity. 15 patients were classified as mildly and 4 patients as moderate to severely affected. Seven known pathogenic and one unreported variant (c.1032 + 2_1032 + 3delinsGT) were identified. Biomarker discovery was carried out on blood samples: proteomics was performed on white blood cells (WBC; n = 12) and on extracellular vesicles (EV) purified from serum samples (n = 7) in addition to amino acid profiling (n = 9) and miRNA screening (n = 18). For miRNA studies, 7 patients with other CMS-subtypes were moreover included. WBC-proteomics unveiled a significant increase of 7 and a decrease of 36 proteins. In silico studies of these proteins indicated affection of secretory granules and the extracellular space. Comparison across patients unveiled increase of two vesicular transport proteins (SCAMP2 and SNX2) in severely affected patients and indeed EV-proteomics revealed increase of 7 and decrease of 13 proteins. Three of these proteins (TARSH, ATRN & PLEC) are known to be important for synaptogenesis and synaptic function. Metabolomics showed decrease of seven amino acids/ amino acid metabolites (aspartic and glutamic acids, phosphoserine, amino adipate, citrulline, ornithine, and 1-methyhistidine). miRNA-profiling showed increase miR - 483 - 3p, miR-365a-3p, miR - 365b - 3p and miR-99a, and decrease of miR-4433b-3p, miR-6873-3p, miR-182-5p and let-7b-5p in CHRNE-patients whereas a comparison with other CMS subtypes showed increase of miR - 205 - 5p, miR - 10b - 5p, miR-125a-5p, miR-499-5p, miR-3120-5p and miR - 483 - 5p and decrease of miR - 1290. Our combined data introduce a molecular fingerprint on protein, metabolic and miRNA level with some of those playing different roles along the neuromuscular axis.
PXD060381	39949490	CRISPR-dCas9 Activation of TSG-6 in MSCs Modulates the Cargo of MSC-Derived Extracellular Vesicles and Attenuates Inflammatory Responses in Human Intervertebral Disc Cells In Vitro. 	CRISPR/dCAS9 genomic engineering for boosting the therapeutic potential of Extracellular Vesicles	CRISPR, Extracellular Vesicles, MSCs	Purpose: The purpose of this study was to boost the therapeutic effect of mesenchymal stem cell (MSC)-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) by overexpressing the gene TSG-6 through CRISPR activation, and assess the biological activity of EVs from these modified MSCs in vitro on human intervertebral disc (IVD) cells. Methods: An immortalized human MSC line was transduced with a CRISPR activation lentivirus system targeting TSG-6. MSC-EVs were harvested by ultracentrifugation and particle number/size distribution was determined by nanoparticle tracking analysis. The efficiency of transduction activation was assessed by analyzing gene and protein expression. EV proteomic contents were analyzed by mass spectrometry. Human IVD cells from patients undergoing spinal surgery were isolated, expanded, exposed to IL-1beta pre-stimulation and co-treated with MSC-EVs. Results: MSC-EVs presented size distribution, morphology, and molecular markers consistent with common EV characteristics. The expression level of TSG-6 was significantly higher (> 800 fold) in transduced MSCs relative to controls. Protein analysis of MSCs and EVs showed higher protein expression of TSG-6 in CRISPR activated samples than controls. Proteomics of EVs identified 35 proteins (including TSG-6) that were differentially expressed in TSG-6 activated EVs vs control EVs. EV co-Treatment of IL-1beta pre-Stimulated IVD cells resulted in a significant downregulation of IL-8 and COX-2. Conclusions: We successfully generated an MSC line overexpressing TSG-6. Furthermore, we show that EVs isolated from these modified MSCs have the potential to attenuate the pro-inflammatory gene expression in IVD cells. This genomic engineering approach hence holds promise for boosting the therapeutic effects of EVs. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1007/s12195-025-00843-4.
PXD055107	39950344	Cancer cell target discovery: comparing laboratory evolution of expanded DNA six-nucleotide alphabets with standard four-nucleotide alphabets. 	The Cancer Cell Target Discovery. Comparing Laboratory Evolution of Expanded DNA Six-Nucleotide Alphabets with Standard Four-Nucleotide Alphabets	Aptamer, Cancer cell, Molecular interactions, Target determination, Unnatural bases	Anthropogenic evolvable genetic information systems (AEGIS) are DNA-like molecules that can be copied, support laboratory in vitro evolution (LIVE), and evolve to give AegisBodies, analogs of antibodies. However, unlike DNA aptamers built from four different nucleotides, AegisBodies are currently built from six different nucleotides. Thus, six-letter AEGIS-LIVE delivers AegisBodies with greater stability in biological mixtures, more folds, and enhanced binding and catalytic power. Unlike DNA however, AEGIS has not benefited from 4 billion years of biological evolution to create AEGIS-specialized enzymes, but only a decade or so of human design. To learn whether AEGIS can nevertheless perform as well as natural DNA as a platform to create functional molecules, we compared two six-letter AegisBodies (LZH5b and LZH8) with a single standard four-letter aptamer, both evolved to bind specific cancer cells with ~10 cycles of LIVE. Both evolved ~50 nM affinities. Both discovered proteins on their cancer cell surfaces thought to function only inside of cells. Both can be internalized. Internalizing of LZH5b attached to an AEGIS nanotrain brings attached drugs into the cell. These data show that AEGIS-LIVE can do what four-letter LIVE can do at its limits of performance after 4 billion years of evolution of DNA-specialized enzymes, and better by a few metrics. As synthetic biologists continue to improve enzymology and analytical chemistry to support AEGIS-LIVE, this technology shoud prove increasingly useful as a tool, especially in cancer research.
PXD057905	39951537	ATR-hippo drives force signaling to nuclear F-actin and links mechanotransduction to neurological disorders. 	ATR-hippo mediates force signalling to nuclear f-actin and links mechanotransduction to neurological disorders.	ATR, RASSF1A, cytoskeleton	The mechanical environment is sensed through cell-matrix contacts with the cytoskeleton, but how signals transit the nuclear envelope to affect cell fate decisions remains unknown. Nuclear actin coordinates chromatin motility during differentiation and genome maintenance, yet it remains unclear how nuclear actin responds to mechanical force. The DNA-damage kinase ataxia telangiectasia and Rad3-related protein (ATR) translocates to the nuclear envelope to protect the nucleus during cell motility or compression. Here, we show that ATR drives nuclear actin assembly via recruitment of Filamin-A to the inner nuclear membrane through binding of the hippo pathway scaffold and ATR substrate, RASSF1A. Moreover, we demonstrate how germline RASSF1 mutation disables nuclear mechanotransduction resulting in cerebral cortex thinning and associates with common psychological traits. Thus, defective mechanical-regulated pathways may contribute to complex neurological disorders.
PXD051304	39953147	SUMOylation inhibition potentiates the glucocorticoid receptor to program growth arrest of acute lymphoblastic leukemia cells. 	Chromatomes of GR and SUMO2/3 identified with RIME	Cancer, Chromatin, Immunoprecipitation	Glucocorticoids are a mainstay in the treatment of B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). The glucocorticoid receptor (GR), a ligand-activated transcription factor (TF), mediates their actions. Chromatin occupancy, chromatin-protein networks (chromatomes) and gene programmes of GR are regulated by SUMOylation, a post-translational modification with therapeutic implications in other hematomalignancies. To unravel the GR-SUMOylation crosstalk in B-ALL, we induced hypoSUMOylation in NALM6 B-ALL cells with a SUMOylation inhibitor (SUMOi, ML-792). Genome-wide profiling of GR and SUMO chromatin-binding and chromatin accessibility revealed that hypoSUMOylation augmented GR chromatin occupancy and altered chromatin openness. Association with transcriptome data indicated that the hypoSUMOylation-induced GR-binding sites predominantly repressed genes associated with cell cycle and DNA replication. Consistently, hypoSUMOylation potentiated glucocorticoid-induced cell cycle arrest and growth suppression. Moreover, our proteomic analyses revealed that the protein network of chromatin-bound GR is tightly intertwined with SUMO2/3 and that SUMOylation modulates the stability of the network. The chromatome contained several B-cell TFs with cognate binding motifs found on GR-adjacent chromatin sites, indicating their simultaneous occupancy on chromatin. In sum, our data imply potential for targeting SUMOylation to increase sensitivity to glucocorticoids in B-ALL, supported by ex vivo data of glucocorticoid and SUMOi TAK-981 combination-treated B-ALL patient samples.
PXD038916	39953610	Suppression of Spry1 reduces HIF1alpha-dependent glycolysis and impairs angiogenesis in BRAF-mutant cutaneous melanoma. 	Spry1 as a potential new hypoxia modulator in cutaneous melanoma	BRAF, Cutaneous melanoma, IP-MS, Spry1, hypoxia	BACKGROUND: About 50% of cutaneous melanoma (CM) harbors the activating BRAF(V600) mutation which exerts most of the oncogenic effects through the MAPK signaling pathway. In the last years, a number of MAPK modulators have been identified, including Spry1. In this context, we have recently demonstrated that knockout of Spry1 (Spry1(KO)) in BRAF(V600)-mutant CM led to cell cycle arrest and apoptosis, repressed cell proliferation in vitro, and reduced tumor growth in vivo. Despite these findings, however, the precise molecular mechanism linking Spry1 to BRAF(V600)-mutant CM remains to be elucidated. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Immunoprecipitation coupled to mass spectrometry was employed to gain insight into Spry1 interactome. Spry1 gene was knocked-out using the CRISPR strategy in the BRAF-mutant cell lines. Transmission electron microscopy was used to assess the relationship between Spry1 expression and mitochondrial morphology. By using in vitro and in vivo models, the effects of Spry1(KO) were investigated through RNA-sequencing, quantitative real-time PCR, Western blot, and immunofluorescence analyses. The Seahorse XF24 assay allowed real-time measurement of cellular metabolism in our model. Angiogenic potential was assessed through in vitro tube formation assays and in vivo CD31 staining. RESULTS: Spry1 was mainly located in mitochondria in BRAF(V600)-mutant CM cells where it interacted with key molecules involved in mitochondrial homeostasis. Spry1 loss resulted in mitochondrial shape alterations and dysfunction, which associated with increased reactive oxygen species production. In agreement, we found that nuclear hypoxia-inducible factor-1 alpha (HIF1alpha) protein levels were reduced in Spry1(KO) clones both in vitro and in vivo along with the expression of its glycolysis related genes. Accordingly, Ingenuity Pathway Analysis identified "HIF1alpha Signaling" as the most significant molecular and cellular function affected by Spry1 silencing, whereas the glycolytic function was significantly impaired in Spry1 depleted BRAF(V600)-mutant CM cells. In addition, our results indicated that the expression of the vascular endothelial growth factor A was down-regulated following Spry1(KO), possibly as a result of mitochondrial dysfunction. Consistently, we observed a substantial impairment of angiogenesis, as assessed by the tube formation assay in vitro and the immunofluorescence staining of CD31 in vivo. CONCLUSIONS: Altogether, these findings identify Spry1 as a potential regulator of mitochondrial homeostasis, and uncover a previously unrecognized role for Spry1 in regulating nuclear HIF1alpha expression and angiogenesis in BRAF(V600)-mutant CM. SIGNIFICANCE: Spry1(KO) profoundly impacts on mitochondria homeostasis, while concomitantly impairing HIF1alpha-dependent glycolysis and reducing angiogenesis in BRAF-mutant CM cells, thus providing a potential therapeutic target to improve BRAF(V600)-mutant CM treatment.
PXD059054	39954250	Yeast TIA1 coordinates with Npl3 to promote ATG1 translation during starvation. 	Yeast TIA1 coordinates with Npl3 to promote ATG1 translation during starvation	Autophagy, RBPs, mRNA metabolism, post-transcriptional regulation, translation	Macroautophagy/autophagy is crucial for cell survival during nutrient starvation. Autophagy requires the coordinated function of several Atg proteins, including the Atg1 kinase, for efficient induction and execution. Recently, several RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) have been shown to post-transcriptionally regulate ATG1. However, a comprehensive understanding of autophagy regulation by RBPs via ATG1 is yet to be elucidated. Here, we utilize an in vitro approach to identify RBPs that specifically interact with ATG1 untranslated regions. We show that Npl3 and Pub1 interact with the ATG1 5' and 3' untranslated regions during nitrogen starvation. Furthermore, Npl3 and Pub1 coordinate to facilitate ATG1 mRNA export to the cytoplasm and its subsequent interaction with the translational machinery. Significantly, in non-small cell lung cancer cell lines, mammalian Pub1, TIA1, also positively regulates ULK1 protein expression and autophagy during serum starvation. Overall, our study highlights the regulatory landscape that fine-tunes Atg1 protein expression to sustain autophagy during nutrient starvation.
PXD059026	39956875	CPT1A-mediated MFF succinylation promotes stemness maintenance in ovarian cancer stem cells. 	CPT1A-mediated MFF succinylation promotes stemness maintenance in ovarian cancer stem cells	CPT1A, MAMs, MFF, ovarian cancer stem cells, stemness maintenance	Cancer stem cells (CSCs) play crucial roles in cancer progression, immune evasion, drug resistance, and recurrence. Understanding the mechanisms behind CSCs generation and stemness maintenance is vital for early cancer diagnosis and treatment. Here, we unveil that carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1A (CPT1A) is highly expressed in ovarian cancer stem cells (OCSCs) and is essential for maintaining stemness by regulating lipid desaturation. Studies confirmed that CPT1A enhances SREBP1 activation, upregulating SCD1 expression, and promoting lipid desaturation in OCSCs. Mechanistic studies reveal that CPT1A promotes succinylation of mitochondrial fission factor (MFF) through its lysine succinyltransferase (LSTase) activity, crucial for mitochondria-associated membranes formation and SREBP1 activation. Inhibiting CPT1A's LSTase activity with Glyburide reduces OCSCs' stemness and enhances cisplatin's anti-tumor effects against ovarian cancer in vitro and in vivo. Together, our studies highlight the significance of CPT1A's LSTase activity in maintaining OCSCs' stemness, offering potential targets and therapeutic strategies for ovarian cancer treatment.
PXD044132	39957155	Quantitative proteomic analysis of the brain reveals the potential antidepressant mechanism of Jiawei Danzhi Xiaoyao San in a chronic unpredictable mild stress mouse model of depression. 	TMT Labeling Quantitative Proteomics	Modified Danzhi Xiaoyao Powder, TMT labeling quantification, depression	OBJECTIVE: To reveal the antidepressant mechanisms of Jiawei DanZhiXiaoYaoSan (,JD) in chronic unpredictable mild stress (CUMS)-induced depression in mice. METHODS: Using the CUMS mouse model of depression, the antidepressant effects of JD were assessed using the sucrose preference test (SPT), forced swimming test (FST), and tail suspension test (TST). Tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomic analysis of the brain was performed following JD treatment. Hierarchical clustering, Gene Ontology function annotation, Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment, and protein-protein interactions (PPIs) were used to analyze differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), which were further validated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) and Western blotting. RESULTS: Behavioral tests confirmed the anti-depressant effects of JD, and bioinformatics analysis revealed 59 DEPs, including 33 up-regulated and 26 down-regulated proteins, between the CUMS and JD-M groups. KEGG and PPI analyses revealed that neuro-filament proteins and the Ras signaling pathway may be key targets of JD in the treatment of depression. qRT-PCR and Western blotting results demonstrated that CUMS reduced the protein expression of neurofilament light (NEFL) and medium (NEFM) and inhibited the phosphorylation of extracellular regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2), whereas JD promoted the phosphorylation of ERK1/2 and up-regulated the protein expression of NEFL and NEFM. CONCLUSIONS: The antidepressant mechanism of JD may be related to the up-regulation of p-ERK1/2 and neurofilament proteins.
PXD044513	39957677	DHFR2 RNA directly regulates dihydrofolate reductase and its expression level impacts folate one carbon metabolism. 	DHFR2 Proteomic analysis - LC MS/MS NICB DCU	DHFR2, Shotgun Proteomics	Dihydrofolate reductase activity is required in One Carbon Metabolism to ensure that the biologically active form of folate, tetrahydrofolate, is replenished and available as an enzyme cofactor for numerous cellular reactions, including purine and pyrimidine synthesis. Most cellular enzyme activity was thought to arise from the product of the DHFR gene on chromosome 5, with its paralogue DHFR2 (formerly known as DHFRL1; [chromosome 3]), believed to be responsible for mitochondrial dihydrofolate activity based on recombinant versions of the enzyme. In this paper, we confirm our earlier findings that dihydrofolate reductase activity in mitochondria is derived from the DHFR gene rather than DHFR2 and that endogenous DHFR2 protein is not detectable in most cells and tissues. Using HepG2 cell lines with modulated expression of either DHFR or DHFR2, we observed an impact of DHFR2 RNA on One Carbon Metabolism mediated through an influence on DHFR expression and activity. Knockout of DHFR2 results in a drop in dihydrofolate reductase activity, lowered 10-formyltetrahydrofolate abundance, downregulation of DHFR mRNA, and diminished DHFR protein abundance. We also observed downregulation of Serine Hydroxymethyltransferase and Thymidylate Synthase, two One Carbon Metabolism enzymes that work with DHFR to support de novo thymidylate synthesis. The expression of recombinant DHFR2 resulted in restoration of DHFR mRNA and protein levels while a DHFR knockdown cell line showed upregulation of DHFR2 RNA. We propose that the DHFR2 gene encodes an RNA molecule that regulates cellular dihydrofolate reductase activity through its impact on DHFR mRNA and protein.
PXD049366	39959086	Refinement of Protein Extraction Protocols for Human Peripheral Nerve Tissue. 	Refinement of Protein Extraction Protocols for Human Peripheral Nerve Tissue	Extracellular proteins, Nerve regeneration, Sural nerve	Our aim was to establish an effective method for protein extraction from freshly frozen human peripheral nerves, determine the minimum amount required for consistent protein extraction outcomes, and assess which method produced the highest number of protein identities. Five extraction methods were compared using 8 M urea and Ripa buffer using either the Bullet Blender or Bioruptor. Out of the total 2619 identified proteins, protein extraction using the Ripa buffer combined with either Bioruptor or Bullet Blender resulted in the identification of 1582 (60%) and 1615 (62%) proteins, respectively. In contrast, using 8 M urea and Bioruptor for protein extraction resulted in 1022 proteins (39%), whereas employing Bullet Blender yielded 1446 proteins (55%). Sample amounts, ranging from 0.6 to 10 mg, were prepared with consistent protein extraction outcome obtained for samples >=1.2 mg. Combining Ripa and 8 M urea with Bullet Blender increased protein identification to 2126 (81%). Proteins were classified by their cell components, molecular functions, and biological processes. Furthermore, a subclassification of proteins involved in the extracellular matrix (ECM) was introduced. We recommend the use of Ripa buffer, in combination with 8 M urea and Bullet Blender for extracting proteins from fresh-frozen human nerves weighing >=1.2 mg.
PXD056309	39959819	Proteomics of stress-induced cardiomyopathy: insights from differential expression, protein interaction networks, and functional pathway enrichment in an isoproterenol-induced TTC mouse model. 	Proteomic of Stress-Induced Cardiomyopathy	Takotsubo cardiomyopathy, isoproterenol, stress-induced cardiomyopathy	Backgrounds: Takotsubo cardiomyopathy (TTC), also known as stress-induced cardiomyopathy, is a condition characterized by transient left ventricular dysfunction without coronary artery obstruction. Methods: We utilized label-free quantitative proteomics to analyze protein expression in a murine model of TTC, induced by a high dose of isoproterenol (ISO) injection. Results: We found that a single high dose of ISO injection in mice could induce stress-related cardiac dysfunction.The proteomic analysis revealed 81 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) between the ISO and control groups-39 were upregulated, and 42 were downregulated. Key pathways enriched by Gene Ontology (GO) analysis included collagen fibril organization, cholesterol biosynthesis, and elastic fiber assembly. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment indicated significant changes in unsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis, glutathione metabolism, steroid biosynthesis, and ferroptosis. Key hub proteins identified by the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network included Ntrk2, Fdft1, Serpine1, and Cyp1a1. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) showed upregulation in terpenoid backbone biosynthesis, oxidative phosphorylation, and ferroptosis, with downregulation in pathways such as systemic lupus erythematosus and Rap1 signaling. Conclusions: This study employed high-throughput liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to identify key proteins associated with energy metabolism, oxidative stress, inflammation, and cell death in TTC. These findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of stress-induced myocardial injury and may offer potential therapeutic targets for mitigating cardiovascular damage under stress conditions.
PXD049797	39961749	Comparison of Phosphoribosyl Ubiquitin Probes Targeting Legionella Dup Enzymes. 	Development of covalent probes to capture Legionella pneumophila effector enzymes	ADP-ribosylation, Activity-based probe, Bacterial infection, Legionella pneumophila, Ubiquitylation	In order to effectively replicate within a host cell, the Legionella pneumophila bacterium secretes effector enzymes into the cytoplasm in order to manipulate cellular host pathways including host ubiquitination. Some of these effectors, the so-called SidE-family, mediate noncanonical phosphoribosyl serine ubiquitination (PR-ubiquitination) of host substrate proteins, contributing to the recruitment of ER-remodeling proteins and the formation of a Legionella-containing vacuole, which is crucial in the early stages of bacterial infection. PR-ubiquitination is a dynamic process that is reversed by other Legionella effectors called deubiquitinases for PR-ubiquitination (Dups). We recently discovered a reactive allosteric cysteine in close proximity to the catalytic triad of DupA, which can be exploited as a target for covalent probe development. We here report on the synthesis of vinyl-sulfonate and fluoro-sulfonate warhead-containing phosphoribosyl ubiquitin probes, where the Arg42 position of ubiquitin is linked to the C1 of ribose via a native guanidinium group, and compare them to triazole-linked probes. In vitro tests on recombinant DupA and SdeAPDE revealed that these probes are able to capture the enzymes covalently. In a pull-down proteomics experiment, DupA and DupB enzymes are enriched from Legionella-infected cell lysates, highlighting the potential of native Arg-riboside linked probes to capture Legionella effector enzymes in a complex proteome.
PXD055109	39962076	CHAMP1 complex directs heterochromatin assembly and promotes homology-directed DNA repair. 	CHAMP1 complex directs heterochromatin assembly and promotes homology-directed DNA repair		The CHAMP1 complex, a little-known but highly conserved protein complex consisting of CHAMP1, POGZ, and HP1alpha, is enriched in heterochromatin though its cellular function in these regions of the genome remain unknown. Here we show that the CHAMP complex promotes heterochromatin assembly at multiple chromosomal sites, including centromeres and telomeres, and promotes homology-directed repair (HDR) of DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) in these regions. The CHAMP1 complex is also required for heterochromatin assembly and DSB repair in highly-specialized chromosomal regions, such as the highly-compacted telomeres of ALT (Alternative Lengthening of Telomeres) positive tumor cells. Moreover, the CHAMP1 complex binds and recruits the writer methyltransferase SETDB1 to heterochromatin regions of the genome and is required for efficient DSB repair at these sites. Importantly, peripheral blood lymphocytes from individuals with CHAMP1 syndrome, an inherited neurologic disorder resulting from heterozygous mutations in CHAMP1, also exhibit defective heterochromatin clustering and defective repair of DSBs, suggesting that a defect in DNA repair underlies this syndrome. Taken together, the CHAMP1 complex has a specific role in heterochromatin assembly and the enhancement of HDR in heterochromatin.
PXD041172	39962091	Host-specific targets of Histomonas meleagridis antigens revealed by immunoprecipitation. 	Immunoprecipitation analysis of Histomonas meleagridis	Histomonas meleagridis, antigens, attenuation, comparative proteomic analysis, immunoprecipitation, immunoproteome, protozoa, virulence	Histomonas meleagridis, a protozoan parasite responsible for histomonosis (syn. Blackhead disease, histomoniasis), presents an increasing challenge for poultry health, particularly with the ban of licensed prophylactic and treatment options. Recent studies have explored H. meleagridis proteome, exoproteome, and surfaceome, linking molecular data to virulence and in vitro attenuation. Nevertheless, proteins involved in interactions with hosts remain largely unknown. In this study, we conducted immunoproteome analyses to identify key antigens involved in the humoral immune response of the parasite's main hosts, turkeys and chickens. Immunogenic proteins were isolated via immunoprecipitation using sera from chickens and turkeys that were vaccinated with a single attenuated strain and challenged with virulent strains of the protozoan, respectively. Mass spectrometry identified 155 putative H. meleagridis immunogenic proteins, of which 43 were recognized by sera from both hosts. In silico antigenicity screening (VaxElan) identified 33 pan-reactive antigens, with VaxiDL further highlighting 10 as potential vaccine candidates. Comparative analysis revealed host-specific immune responses, with 16 differential immunogenic proteins in chickens (6 specific to virulent and 10 to attenuated preparations) and 19 unique proteins in turkeys, all associated with virulent strains. These results enhance our understanding of H. meleagridis immunogenic protein dynamics and host-pathogen specificities, supporting the development of improved diagnostic tools and potential protective measures against the infection.
PXD050336	39962197	Sonication-assisted protein extraction improves proteomic detection of membrane-bound and DNA-binding proteins from tumor tissues. 	Sonication-assisted protein extraction improves proteomic detection of membrane-bound and DNA-binding proteins from tumor tissues	ProteomeXchange project tag: CPTAC Consortium, global proteomics, phosphoproteomics, sonication, tumor-associated proteomics	Deep-scale, mass spectrometry-based proteomic studies by the Clinical Proteomic Tumor Analysis Consortium (CPTAC) program involves tissue lysis using urea buffer before data acquisition via mass spectrometry for quantitative global proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis. This is described in a 2018 protocol(1). Here we report an update to this initial protocol by implementing a sonication step into urea-based tissue lysis. Similar to the initial CPTAC protocol, we identified >12,000 proteins and >25,000 phosphopeptides in a tandem mass tag (TMT) set containing both nonsonicated and sonicated tumor tissues from patient-derived xenograft mouse models. An improvement in the detection of membrane-bound and DNA-binding proteins was observed by including the sonication. We also offer recommendations for optimal sonication conditions such as the buffer composition, timing of sonication cycle, instrumentation settings and a troubleshooting section for potential users. Additionally, the protocol is equally applicable to other biological specimens.
PXD054396	39962268	The MAST kinase KIN-4 carries out mitotic entry functions of Greatwall in C. elegans. 	The MAST kinase KIN-4 provides the Greatwall activity in C. elegans	C. elegans, Cell Cycle, Development, Kinase, Phosphatase	MAST-like, or Greatwall (Gwl), an atypical protein kinase related to the evolutionarily conserved MAST kinase family, is crucial for cell cycle control during mitotic entry. Mechanistically, Greatwall is activated by Cyclin B-Cdk1 phosphorylation of a 550 amino acids-long insertion in its atypical activation segment. Subsequently, Gwl phosphorylates Endosulfine and Arpp19 to convert them into inhibitors of PP2A-B55 phosphatase, thereby preventing early dephosphorylation of M-phase targets of Cyclin B-Cdk1. Here, searching for an elusive Gwl-like activity in C. elegans, we show that the single worm MAST kinase, KIN-4, fulfills this function in worms and can functionally replace Greatwall in the heterologous Xenopus system. Compared to Greatwall, the short activation segment of KIN-4 lacks a phosphorylation site, and KIN-4 is active even when produced in E. coli. We also show that a balance between Cyclin B-Cdk1 and PP2A-B55 activity, regulated by KIN-4, is essential to ensure asynchronous cell divisions in the early worm embryo. These findings resolve a long-standing puzzle related to the supposed absence of a Greatwall pathway in C. elegans, and highlight a novel aspect of PP2A-B55 regulation by MAST kinases.
PXD056326	39963715	Time-resolved proteomic profiling of Cupriavidus metallidurans CH34 in the copper-induced viable-but-non-culturable state. 	The copper-induced viable-but-non-culturable state in Cupriavidus metallidurans CH34 is characterized by distinct proteomic response patterns- Part III	copper, dormancy, metabolism, metal resistance, resuscitation	Copper-based materials are actively explored for their potential as antimicrobial agents. However, recent studies show that sublethal concentrations of Cu ions can induce the viable-but-non-culturable (VBNC) cell state in certain bacteria, hampering contamination control and monitoring. In this study we contribute to the unravelling of this largely enigmatic phenomenon by determining the time-resolved proteome of Cu-treated Cupriavidus metallidurans CH34 during VBNC induction and resuscitation. High-throughput quantitative LC-MS/MS analysis was performed at multiple sample time points, revealing the cellular adaptations that trigger VBNC formation and the characteristic spontaneous recovery of culturability. Entry into the VBNC state correlated with a widespread response to oxidative stress as well as downregulated pyruvate metabolism. The expression of specific metal resistance determinants changed with Cu exposure time and culminated in the strong upregulation of proteins linked to periplasmic Cu ion detoxification during the resuscitation phase. We suggest that this delayed induction of Cu resistance proteins is paralleled by the gradual reconstitution of energy reserves through metabolization of intracellular polyhydroxybutyrate, as supported by flow cytometric fluorescence measurements. Furthermore, Cu-treated cells showed upregulation of several motility and chemotaxis proteins, and increased cell motility was observed phenotypically. Our results reveal a highly dynamic proteomic response, provide fundamental insights into the VBNC state and emphasize the advantages of time-resolved proteomic analysis.
PXD058372	39964475	Crossovers are regulated by a conserved and disordered synaptonemal complex domain. 	SYP-4 phosphoproteomics characterization	C. elegans, SYP-4, germline, phosphorylation	During meiosis, the number and distribution of crossovers (COs) must be precisely regulated through CO assurance and interference to prevent chromosome missegregation and genomic instability in the progeny. Here we show that this regulation of COs depends on a disordered and conserved domain within the synaptonemal complex (SC). This domain is located at the C-terminus of the central element protein SYP-4 in Caenorhabditis elegans. While not necessary for synapsis, the C-terminus of SYP-4 is crucial for both CO assurance and interference. Although the SYP-4 C-terminus contains many potential phosphorylation sites, we found that phosphorylation is not the primary regulator of CO events. Instead, we discovered that nine conserved phenylalanines are required to recruit a pro-CO factor predicted to be an E3 ligase and regulate the physical properties of the SC. We propose that this conserved and disordered domain plays a crucial role in maintaining the SC in a state that allows transmitting signals to regulate CO formation. While the underlying mechanisms remain to be fully understood, our findings align with existing models suggesting that the SC plays a critical role in determining the number and distribution of COs along chromosomes, thereby safeguarding the genome for future generations.
PXD047056	39964703	Chemical proteomics reveal human off-targets of fluoroquinolone induced mitochondrial toxicity. 	Chemical proteomics reveal human off-targets of fluoroquinolone induced mitochondrial toxicity	Antibiotics, Chemical Proteomics, Fluoroquinolones, Off-targets, Side-effects	Fluoroquinolones (FQs) are an important class of potent broad-spectrum antibiotics. However, their general use is more and more limited by adverse side effects. While general mechanisms for the fluoroquinolone-associated disability (FQAD) have been identified, the underlying molecular targets of toxicity remain elusive. In this study, focusing on the most commonly prescribed FQs Ciprofloxacin and Levofloxacin, whole proteome analyses revealed prominent mitochondrial dysfunction in human cells, specifically of the complexes I and IV of the electron transport chain (ETC). Furthermore, global untargeted chemo-proteomic methodologies such as photo-affinity profiling with FQ-derived probes, as well as derivatization-free thermal proteome profiling, were applied to elucidate human protein off-targets of FQs in living cells. Accordingly, the interactions of FQs with mitochondrial AIFM1 and IDH2 have been identified and biochemically validated for their contribution to mitochondrial dysfunction. Of note, the FQ induced ETC dysfunction via AIFM1 activates the reverse carboxylation pathway of IDH2 for rescue, however, its simultaneous inhibition further enhances mitochondrial toxicity. This off-target discovery study provides unique insights into FQ toxicity enabling the utilization of identified molecular principles for the design of a safer FQ generation.
PXD058121	39964708	Tracking proteasome degradation: A cross-organ analysis via intact degradomics mass spectrometry. 	Tracking Proteasome Degradation: A Cross-Organ Analysis via Intact degradomics Top-Down Mass Spectrometry	proteasome, protein degradation, top-down MS	The proteasome is a multisubunit degradation machinery that is essential for maintaining protein homeostasis by breaking down unnecessary or damaged proteins into peptides. While most of these peptides are further processed into amino acids, a subset evades complete degradation and plays key roles in biological processes such as antigen presentation, signaling, and apoptosis. However, the variability in peptide lengths and the diverse composition of proteasomes make their comprehensive identification and characterization particularly challenging. Here, we present a method that enables real-time identification of generated peptides, as well as uncleaved and partially cleaved protein substrates, revealing the processive nature of protein proteasomal degradation. Our intact degradomics workflow is based on intact mass spectrometry measurements and treats the enzymatically produced peptides as if they were generated within the mass spectrometer, akin to top-down products. We applied this approach to determine the kinetic profile of proteasome degradation and compare the real-time activity of proteasomes isolated from different mouse organs, uncovering distinct functionalities of the complex. Overall, this method offers a valuable tool for studying peptide degradation products across various proteasome configurations, while also enabling the investigation of how interacting proteins, inhibitors, and activators influence proteasome activity. Furthermore, its adaptability makes it applicable to a wide range of other proteolytic complexes, broadening its potential impact in the field.
PXD055768	39964718	PSKH1 kinase activity is differentially modulated via allosteric binding of Ca(2+) sensor proteins. 	PSKH1 co-immunoprecipitation from human cells and binding partner analysis	PSKH1, co-IP	Protein Serine Kinase H1 (PSKH1) was recently identified as a crucial factor in kidney development and is overexpressed in prostate, lung, and kidney cancers. However, little is known about PSKH1 regulatory mechanisms, leading to its classification as a "dark" kinase. Here, we used biochemistry and mass spectrometry to define PSKH1's consensus substrate motif, protein interactors, and how interactors, including Ca(2+) sensor proteins, promote or suppress activity. Intriguingly, despite the absence of a canonical Calmodulin binding motif, Ca(2+)-Calmodulin activated PSKH1 while, in contrast, the ER-resident Ca(2+) sensor of the Cab45, Reticulocalbin, Erc55, Calumenin (CREC) family, Reticulocalbin-3, suppressed PSKH1 catalytic activity. In addition to antagonistic regulation of the PSKH1 kinase domain by Ca(2+) sensing proteins, we identified UNC119B as a protein interactor that activates PSKH1 via direct engagement of the kinase domain. Our findings identify complementary allosteric mechanisms by which regulatory proteins tune PSKH1's catalytic activity and raise the possibility that different Ca(2+) sensors may act more broadly to tune kinase activities by detecting and decoding extremes of intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations.
PXD051442	39964812	Luminescent sensing of conformational integrin activation in living cells. 	Luminescent sensing of conformational integrin activation in living cells	TMT, VEGFB	Integrins are major receptors for secreted extracellular matrix, playing crucial roles in physiological and pathological contexts, such as angiogenesis and cancer. Regulation of the transition between inactive and active conformation is key for integrins to fulfill their functions, and pharmacological control of those dynamics may have therapeutic applications. We create and validate a prototypic luminescent beta1 integrin activation sensor (beta1IAS) by introducing a split luciferase into an activation reporting site between the betaI and the hybrid domains. As a recombinant protein in both solution and living cells, beta1IAS accurately reports beta1 integrin activation in response to (bio)chemical and physical stimuli. A short interfering RNA (siRNA) high-throughput screening on live beta1IAS knockin endothelial cells unveils hitherto unknown regulators of beta1 integrin activation, such as beta1 integrin inhibitors E3 ligase Pja2 and vascular endothelial growth factor B (VEGF-B). This split-luciferase-based strategy provides an in situ label-free measurement of integrin activation and may be applicable to other beta integrins and receptors.
PXD049246	39965657	The human HELQ helicase and XRN2 exoribonuclease cooperate in R-loop resolution. 	HelQ-BioID2 experiment to discover novel protein interactants of HelQ	HelQ, XRN2	The human HELQ helicase is a superfamily 2, 3'-5 helicase homologous to POLQ and RNA helicases of the Ski2-like subfamily. It is involved in diverse aspects of DNA repair and is an emerging prognosis biomarker and novel drug target for cancer therapy. HELQ interacts with RPA through its inherently disordered N-HELQ domain and hence is recruited to RPA-bound DNA substrates. Our study reveals a novel role for HELQ in R-loop resolution. We show in cells and in vitro that HELQ is recruited by RPA at R-loops, which are then resolved if HELQ is catalytically active as an ATPase/helicase. Furthermore, we identify a functional interaction of HELQ with XRN2, a nuclear 5' to 3' exoribonuclease, which we suggest coordinates R-loop unwinding by HELQ with RNA digestion by XRN2. Collectively, we assign a new biological function for HELQ in genome stability in metazoans through its involvement with XRN2 in R-loop metabolism.
PXD060724	39965925	Epitope and Paratope Mapping of a SUMO-Remnant Antibody Using Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry and Molecular Docking. 	Epitope and paratope mapping of a SUMO-remnant antibody using cross-linking mass spectrometry and molecular docking	Cross-linking, SUMO, antibody, molecular docking, paratope mapping	The small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) is an important post-translational modification that regulates the function of various proteins essential for DNA damage repair, genome integrity, and cell homeostasis. To identify protein SUMOylation effectively, an enrichment step is necessary, often requiring exogenous gene expression in cells and immunoaffinity purification of SUMO-remnant peptides following tryptic digestion. Previously, an antibody was developed to enrich tryptic peptides containing the remnant NQTGG on the receptor lysine, although the specifics of the structural interaction motif remained unclear. This study integrates de novo sequencing, intact mass spectrometry, cross-linking mass spectrometry, and molecular docking to elucidate the structural interaction motifs of a SUMO-remnant antibody. Additional cross-linking experiments were performed using SUMOylated peptides and high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometry (FAIMS) to enhance the sensitivity and confirm interactions at the paratope interface. This study establishes a robust framework for characterizing antibody-antigen interactions, offering valuable insights into the structural basis of SUMO-remnant peptide recognition.
PXD060232	39966386	S100A12 triggers NETosis to aggravate myocardial infarction injury via the Annexin A5-calcium axis. 	Transgenic mice with myeloid-specific overexpression of human S100A12	S100A12	Neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) play a critical role in acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and the externalization of S100 family members. Here, we show the effects of S100A12 on NETs formation and myocardial injury following AMI. S100A12 expression increases rapidly in neutrophils and peaks on day 1 after AMI, promoting NETs production and exacerbating myocardial injury. DNase I, an inhibitor of NETs, reduces apoptosis of cardiomyocytes induced by S100A12. Mechanistically, the interaction of S100A12 and Annexin A5 (ANXA5) enhances calcium influx and promotes NETs formation. Blockage of ANXA5 effectively attenuates heart function impairment after AMI. Finally, we show that plasma S100A12 levels correlate with dsDNA concentration, and this correlation is associated with an increased risk of all-cause mortality during the 1-year follow-up of AMI patients. These findings, derived from male mice, reveal the S100A12-ANXA5-calcium influx axis as a potential therapeutic target and biomarker for AMI.
PXD050227	39966387	Long-term adaptation of lymphoma cell lines to hypoxia is mediated by diverse molecular mechanisms that are targetable with specific inhibitors. 	Long term adaptation of lymphoma cells to hypoxia	Cellular mechanisms, Hypoxia adaptation, Lymphoma cells (HBL2, Ramos), TMT Proteomic analysis	A large body of evidence suggests that hypoxia drives aggressive molecular features of malignant cells irrespective of cancer type. Non-Hodgkin lymphomas (NHL) are the most common hematologic malignancies characterized by frequent involvement of diverse hypoxic microenvironments. We studied the impact of long-term deep hypoxia (1% O2) on the biology of lymphoma cells. Only 2 out of 6 tested cell lines (Ramos, and HBL2) survived >= 4 weeks under hypoxia. The hypoxia-adapted (HA)b Ramos and HBL2 cells had a decreased proliferation rate accompanied by significant suppression of both oxidative phosphorylation and glycolytic pathways. Transcriptome and proteome analyses revealed marked downregulation of genes and proteins of the mitochondrial respiration complexes I and IV, and mitochondrial ribosomal proteins. Despite the observed suppression of glycolysis, the proteome analysis of both HA cell lines showed upregulation of several proteins involved in the regulation of glucose utilization including the active catalytic component of prolyl-4-hydroxylase P4HA1, an important druggable oncogene. HA cell lines demonstrated increased transcription of key regulators of auto-/mitophagy, e.g., neuritin, BCL2 interacting protein 3 (BNIP3), BNIP3-like protein, and BNIP3 pseudogene. Adaptation to hypoxia was further associated with deregulation of apoptosis, namely upregulation of BCL2L1/BCL-XL, overexpression of BCL2L11/BIM, increased binding of BIM to BCL-XL, and significantly increased sensitivity of both HA cell lines to A1155463, a BCL-XL inhibitor. Finally, in both HA cell lines AKT kinase was hyperphosphorylated and the cells showed increased sensitivity to copanlisib, a pan-PI3K inhibitor. In conclusion, our data report on several shared mechanisms of lymphoma cell adaptation to long-term hypoxia including: 1. Upregulation of proteins responsible for glucose utilization, 2. Degradation of mitochondrial proteins for potential mitochondrial recycling (by mitophagy), and 3. Increased dependence on BCL-XL and PI3K-AKT signaling for survival. In translation, inhibition of glycolysis, BCL-XL, or PI3K-AKT cascade may result in targeted elimination of HA lymphoma cells.
PXD056142	39968501	Histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 2 attenuates doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity through restoring lysosomal function and promoting autophagy in mice. 	The role HINT2 in DOX-induced cardiac damage	DOX, HEART, HINT2	Doxorubicin (DOX) is an effective chemotherapy drug widely used against various cancers but is limited by severe cardiotoxicity. Mitochondria-lysosome interactions are crucial for cellular homeostasis. This study investigates the role of histidine triad nucleotide-binding protein 2 (HINT2) in DOX-induced cardiotoxicity (DIC). We found that HINT2 expression was significantly upregulated in the hearts of DOX-treated mice. Cardiac-specific Hint2 knockout mice exhibited significantly worse cardiac dysfunction, impaired autophagic flux, and lysosomal dysfunction after DOX treatment. Mechanistically, HINT2 deficiency reduced oxidative phosphorylation complex I activity and disrupted the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide NAD(+)/NADH ratio, impairing lysosomal function. Further, HINT2 deficiency suppressed sterol regulatory element binding protein 2 activity, downregulating transcription factor A mitochondrial, a critical regulator of complex I. Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN) supplementation restored lysosomal function in vitro, while cardiac-specific Hint2 overexpression using adeno-associated virus 9 or adenovirus alleviated DIC both in vivo and in vitro. These findings highlight HINT2 as a key cardioprotective factor that mitigates DIC by restoring the NAD(+)/NADH ratio, lysosomal function, and autophagy. Therapeutic strategies enhancing HINT2 expression or supplementing NMN may reduce cardiac damage and heart failure caused by DOX.
PXD054562	39969856	Unraveling Molecular and Functional Responses Across 3 Lung Injury Models to Expand the Donor Lung Pool. 	Unraveling molecular and functional responses across three lung injury models to expand the donor lung pool	EBP, Lung Transplantation	BACKGROUND: Lung transplantation remains hampered by a scarcity of viable donor lungs, partially attributed to donor lung injuries. METHODS: Three porcine lung injury models were studied: infection-induced using lipopolysaccharide (n = 7), aspiration-induced using endotracheal gastric content (n = 7), and injury using lavage and harmful ventilation (ventilator-induced lung injury; n = 7). Molecular and functional changes from before and after the establishment of lung injury were examined with histopathology, immunohistochemistry, cytokine levels, hemodynamics, and mass spectrometric analysis of lung tissue. The respiratory tract lining fluid was analyzed using exhaled breath particles. RESULTS: T-cell proliferation and suppression of complement activation were unique to the gastric injury, whereas the ventilator-induced lung injury group displayed a unique activation of monocyte chemotaxis. The lipopolysaccharide injury exhibited an activation of stress response proteins. Alterations in the extracellular matrix, particularly the degradation of collagen type IV and increased elastin expression, were identified as a consistent indicator of acute lung injury. Additionally, increases in exhaled particles and differential expression of proteins in the respiratory tract lining fluid correlated with deteriorating lung function. CONCLUSIONS: Molecular analysis of the lung indicated distinct key differences and similarities of donor lung injury phenotypes. Analysis of various donor lung injuries suggests a heightened emphasis on the extracellular matrix for the restoration and rejuvenation of damaged donor lungs.
PXD058873	39969973	Phyloproteomics Reveals Conserved Patterns of Axonemal Dynein Methylation Across the Motile Ciliated Eukaryotes. 	Phylo-proteomics Reveals Conserved Patterns of Axonemal Dynein Methylation Across the Motile Ciliated Eukaryotes (addendum)	DHC, cilia, drosophila, dynein, methylation, phosphorylation	Axonemal dynein assembly occurs in the cytoplasm and numerous cytosolic factors are specifically required for this process. Recently, one factor (DNAAF3/PF22) was identified as a methyltransferase. Examination of Chlamydomonas dyneins found they are methylated at sub-stoichiometric levels on multiple sites, including Lys and Arg residues in several of the nucleotide binding domains and on the microtubule-binding region. Given the highly conserved nature of axonemal dyneins, one key question is whether methylation happens only in dyneins from the chlorophyte algae, or if these modifications occur more broadly throughout the motile ciliated eukaryotes. Here we take a phyloproteomic approach and examine dynein methylation in a wide range of eukaryotic organisms bearing motile cilia. We find unambiguous evidence for methylation of axonemal dyneins in alveolates, chlorophytes, trypanosomes, and a broad range of metazoans. Intriguingly, we were unable to identify a single instance of methylation on Drosophila melanogaster sperm dyneins even though dipterans express a Dnaaf3 ortholog, or in spermatozoids of the fern Ceratopteris, which assembles inner arms but lacks both outer arm dyneins and DNAAF3. Thus, methylation of axonemal dyneins has been broadly conserved in most eukaryotic groups and has the potential to variably modify the function of these motors.
PXD055382	39971732	Characterizing heterologous protein burden in Komagataella phaffii. 	Characterizing heterologous protein burden in Komagataella phaffii	Komagataella phaffii, burden, continuous cultivation, heterologous protein production, secretomics	Yeast is a widely utilized chassis for heterologous protein production, with Komagataella phaffii well-established as a prominent non-conventional yeast in this field. Despite its widespread recognition, there remains considerable potential to further optimize these cell factories to meet high production demands in a cost-effective and sustainable manner. Understanding the cellular response to the challenges of heterologous protein production can equip genetic engineers with crucial knowledge to develop enhanced strategies for constructing more efficient cell factories. In this study, we explore the molecular response of various K. phaffii strains that produce either the human insulin precursor or Mambalgin-1, examining changes in transcription and changes in intra- and extracellular protein levels. Our findings provide valuable insights into the molecular mechanisms that regulate the behaviour of K. phaffii production strains under the stress of producing different heterologous proteins. We believe that these results will serve as a foundation for identifying new genetic targets to improve strain robustness and productivity. In conclusion, we present new cellular and molecular insights into the response of K. phaffii cell factories to the challenges of burdensome heterologous protein production and our findings point to different engineering strategies for improved cell factory performance.
PXD046863	39971958	Human skeletal muscle fiber heterogeneity beyond myosin heavy chains. 	Beyond Myosin Heavy Chains in Human Skeletal Muscle Heterogeneity	Single muscle fiber, cell heterogeneity, fiber type, myopathy	Skeletal muscle is a heterogenous tissue comprised primarily of myofibers, commonly classified into three fiber types in humans: one "slow" (type 1) and two "fast" (type 2A and type 2X). However, heterogeneity between and within traditional fiber types remains underexplored. We applied transcriptomic and proteomic workflows to 1050 and 1038 single myofibers from human vastus lateralis, respectively. Proteomics was conducted in males, while transcriptomics included ten males and two females. We identify metabolic, ribosomal, and cell junction proteins, in addition to myosin heavy chain isoforms, as sources of multi-dimensional variation between myofibers. Furthermore, whilst slow and fast fiber clusters are identified, our data suggests that type 2X fibers are not phenotypically distinct to other fast fibers. Moreover, myosin heavy chain-based classifications do not adequately describe the phenotype of myofibers in nemaline myopathy. Overall, our data indicates that myofiber heterogeneity is multi-dimensional with sources of variation beyond myosin heavy chain isoforms.
PXD053404	39972038	Unveiling the role of sex in the metabolism of indoxyl sulfate and apixaban. 	Analysis of changes in liver protein expression and quantification regarding to sex, treatment and genotype in C57BL/6J Wild-type and KO AhR mice: Unraveling the influence of AhR and Indoxyl sulfate in coagulation and liver metabolism	AhR, Indoxyl Sulfate, Mice, Sex, liver	Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) is associated with heightened risk of thrombosis. Prescription of anticoagulants is key to manage it; however, CKD patients have shown an increased risk of bleeding under anticoagulation therapy compared to non-CKD patients. We hypothesized that the sex could modify the metabolism of indoxyl sulfate (IS), a uremic toxin and Apixaban. Our intoxication model shows that higher doses of IS and apixaban accumulate in the plasma of female mice because of expression differences in efflux transporters and cytochromes in the liver, ileum and kidneys, when compared to males. Furthermore, we found that accumulation of apixaban in females contributes to increased bleeding. Transcriptional analysis of liver samples revealed elevated Sult1a1 but reduced Abcg2 and Cyp3a11 in female mice, while in the kidneys the expression rates of Oat1 and Oat3 were respectively lower and higher than those observed in males, potentially affecting drug clearance. Whole proteomics liver analysis confirmed the previous transcriptional results at the protein level and revealed that sex had a major influence in regulating both coagulation and drug metabolism pathways. Thus, our findings underline the need for inclusive clinical and preclinical trials to accurately reflect sex-specific metabolic variations, and to consider CKD-specific changes to optimize dosing, minimize side effects, and improve patient outcomes.
PXD048451	39972058	Hepatic factor MANF drives hepatocytes reprogramming by detaining cytosolic CK19 in intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. 	Treachery of hepatic protector triggers Notch signaling to promote hepatocyte-originated cholangiocarcinoma	CK19, Cholangiocarcinoma, Hepatocytes, Hucct1, IP-MS, Notch	Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is characterized by poor prognosis and limited treatment. Hepatocytes have been considered as one of the origins of ICC, however, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we found mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF), a hepatoprotective factor, was exceptionally upregulated in human ICC tissues and experimental mouse ICC models induced by sleeping beauty transposon (SBT) or thioacetamide (TAA) challenge. We identified MANF as a biomarker for distinguishing the primary liver cancer and verified the oncogenic role of MANF in ICC using cell lines overexpressing/knocked down MANF and mice specifically knocked in/out MANF in hepatocytes. Lineage tracing revealed that MANF promoted mature hepatocyte transformation into ICC cells. Mechanistically, MANF interacted with CK19 at Ser35 to suppress CK19 membrane recruitment. Cytosolic CK19 bound to AR domain of Notch2 intracellular domain (NICD2) to stabilize NICD2 protein level and trigger Notch signaling, which contributed to hepatocyte transformation to ICC cells. We uncover a novel profile of MANF and the original mechanism, which shed light on ICC diagnosis and intervention.
PXD058354	39972125	In vitro reconstitution of meiotic DNA double-strand-break formation. 	Cross-Link of mouse SPO11 and TOP6BL	DSB, XL-MS, mouse SPO11, mouse TOP6BL	The Spo11 complex catalyses the formation of DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs), initiating meiotic recombination-a process that is essential for fertility and genetic diversity(1,2). Although the function of Spo11 has been known for 27 years, previous efforts to reconstitute DSB formation in vitro have been unsuccessful. Here we biochemically characterize the mouse SPO11-TOP6BL protein complex, and show that this complex cleaves DNA and covalently attaches to the 5' terminus of DNA breaks in vitro. Using a point-mutation strategy, we reveal that Mg(2+) is essential for the DNA-cleavage activity of this complex in vitro, as confirmed by knock-in mice carrying a point mutation in SPO11 that disrupts its binding to Mg(2+), thereby abolishing DSB formation. However, the activity of the SPO11 complex is ATP-independent. We also present evidence that the mouse SPO11 complex is biochemically distinct from the ancestral topoisomerase VI. Our findings establish a mechanistic framework for understanding the first steps of meiotic recombination.
PXD059032	39972276	Identification of key genes related to unilateral cryptorchidism in sheep by comprehensive transcriptomics and proteomics analyses. 	Proteomic analysis of undescended testis	cryptorchidism, sheep, testis	BACKGROUND: Cryptorchidism is one of the most common reproductive abnormalities in rams, which seriously harms the reproductive capacity of rams and causes significant economic losses to the sheep industry. However, there are few studies elucidating its hereditary predisposition in sheep. RESULTS: In the present study, the transcriptome and proteome of the cryptic (CT) and contralateral (CLT) testis from four unilaterally cryptorchid rams, and the normal testis (NT) from four healthy rams were analyzed using RNA-seq and TMT-based proteomics, respectively. A total of 10,357, 10,175, and 132 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between CT vs. CLT, CT vs. NT, and CLT vs. NT. Venn diagram showed that 9744 DEGs (5499 up-regulated and 4245 down-regulated) shared in CT vs. CLT and CT vs. NT. Functional enrichment analysis revealed that 5499 up-regulated DEGs were mainly involved in regulation of programmed cell death and metabolic process, while 4245 down-regulated DEGs were closely related to reproductive process, such as spermatogenesis, sexual reproduction, reproduction and male gamete generation. Furthermore, 325 overlapped genes (114 up-regulated and 211 down-regulated) between DEGs and DAPs that shared the same regulatory status were identified by combining transcriptomics and proteomics. Ten genes, including AKAP4, AKAP3, FSIP2, HSPA1L, HSPA4L, TUBB, TXNRD2, CDC42, PGK1 and HSPA1A, were identified as candidate key genes related to unilateral cryptorchidism. CONCLUSION: Our results revealed that both gene and protein expression in the cryptic testis of unilateral cryptorchid rams is massively altered. Bioinformatics analysis unveiled several candidate genes and signaling pathways potentially involved in unilateral cryptorchidism. These findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanism underlying spermatogenesis failure caused by cryptorchidism.
PXD055877	39972349	Cullin-RING ligase BioE3 reveals molecular-glue-induced neosubstrates and rewiring of the endogenous Cereblon ubiquitome. 	Changes in Cereblon substrates landscape upon molecular glue treatment	Ubiquitination, bioE3, cereblon	BACKGROUND: The specificity of the ubiquitination process is mediated by the E3 ligases. Discriminating genuine substrates of E3s from mere interacting proteins is one of the major challenges in the field. We previously developed BioE3, a biotin-based approach that uses BirA-E3 fusions together with ubiquitin fused to a low-affinity AviTag to obtain a site-specific and proximity-dependent biotinylation of the substrates. We proved the suitability of BioE3 to identify targets of RING and HECT-type E3 ligases. METHODS: BioE3 experiments were performed in HEK293FT and U2OS stable cell lines expressing TRIPZ-bio(GEF)Ub transiently transfected with BirA-cereblon (CRBN). Cells were seeded using biotin-free media, followed later by a short-biotin pulse. We evaluated the applicability of the BioE3 system to CRBN and molecular glues by Western blot and confocal microscopy, blocking the proteasome with bortezomib, inhibiting NEDDylation with MLN4924 and treating the cells with pomalidomide. For the identification of endogenous substrates and neosubstrates we analyzed the eluates of streptavidin pull-downs of BioE3 experiments by LC-MS/MS. Analysis of targets for which ubiquitination changes significantly upon treatment was done using two-sided Student's t-test. Orthogonal validations were performed by histidine pull-down, GFP-trap and computational modelling. RESULTS: Here we demonstrate that BioE3 is suitable for the multi-protein complex Cullin-RING E3s ligases (CRLs), the most utilized E3-type for targeted protein degradation (TPD) strategies. Using CRBN as proof of concept, one of the substrate receptors of CRL4 E3 ligase, we identified both endogenous substrates and novel neosubstrates upon pomalidomide treatment, including CSDE1 which contains a G-loop motif potentially involved in the binding to CRBN in presence of pomalidomide. Importantly, we observed a major rearrangement of the endogenous ubiquitination landscape upon treatment with this molecular glue. CONCLUSIONS: The ability of BioE3 to detect and compare both substrates and neosubstrates, as well as how substrates change in response to treatments, will facilitate both on-target and off-target identifications and offer a broader characterization and validation of TPD compounds, like molecular glues and PROTACs.
PXD037385	39972367	Endothelial-mesenchymal crosstalk drives osteogenic differentiation of human osteoblasts through Notch signaling. 	Molecular mechanisms of endothelial osteoinductive/osteosupressive properties	HUVEC, TimsToF Pro, endothelium, osteoblasts, osteogenic differeniation	BACKGROUND: Angiogenesis and osteogenesis are closely interrelated. The interaction between endothelial and bone-forming cells, such as osteoblasts, is crucial for normal bone development and repair. Juxtacrine and paracrine mechanisms play key roles in cell differentiation towards the osteogenic direction, assuming the direct effect of endothelium on osteogenic differentiation. However, the mechanisms of this interplay have yet to be thoroughly studied. METHODS: Isolated endothelial cells (EC) from human umbilical vein and human osteoblasts (OB) from the epiphysis of the femur or tibia were cultured in direct and indirect (separated by membrane) contact in vitro under the osteogenic differentiation conditions. Osteogenic differentiation was verified by RT-PCR, and alizarin red staining. Shotgun proteomics and RNA-sequencing were used to compare both EC and OB under different co-culture conditions to assess the mechanisms of EC-OB interplay. To verify the role of Notch signaling, experiments with Notch modulation in EC were performed by EC lentiviral transduction with further co-cultivation with OB. Additionally, the effect of Notch modulation in EC was assessed by RNA-sequencing. RESULTS: EC have opposite effects on osteogenic differentiation depending on the co-culture conditions with OB. In direct contact, EC enhance osteogenic differentiation, but in indirect cultures, EC suppress it. Our proteotranscriptomic analysis revealed that the osteosuppressive effect is related to the action of paracrine factors secreted by EC, while the osteoinductive properties of EC are mediated by the Notch signaling pathway, which can be activated only upon a physical contact of EC with OB. Indeed, in the direct co-culture, the knockdown of Notch1 and Notch3 receptors in EC has an inhibitory effect on the OB osteogenic differentiation, whereas activation of Notch by intracellular domain of either Notch1 or Notch3 in EC has an inductive effect on the OB osteogenic differentiation. CONCLUSION: The data indicate the dual role of the endothelium in regulating osteogenic differentiation and highlight the unique role of the Notch signaling pathway in inducing osteogenic differentiation during cell-to-cell interactions. The findings of the study emphasize the importance of intercellular communication in the regulation of osteoblast differentiation during bone development and maintenance.
PXD060671	39972448	Proteomics analysis revealed the activation and suppression of different host defense components challenged with mango leaf spot pathogen Alternaria alternata. 	Proteomics analysis revealed the activation and suppression of different host defense components challenged with mango leaf spot pathogen Alternaria alternata	alternata, comparative proteomics, disease resistance	BACKGROUND: Mango is an economically important fruit tree in many regions of the world, but is highly susceptible to mango leaf spot disease, caused by Alternaria species. How to manage this disease has been a challenge and therefore understanding the regulation of host molecular components in response to pathogen infection is necessary. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive proteomic analysis of mango leaves upon inoculation with the leaf spot pathogen A. alternata. RESULTS: Determination of enzyme activity revealed a significant accumulation of cell-wall degrading enzymes cellulase and beta-Glucosidase in pathogen inoculated mango leaves. A total of 472 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were detected in the proteome data with significant up-regulation of GO terms associated with response to fungus infection. The significantly downregulated proteins during pathogen invasion and colonization were involved in the photosynthesis, phenylpropanoid, flavonoid biosynthesis, and phenylalanine metabolism pathway. The significantly upregulated proteins belonged to tyrosine metabolism and MAPK signalling pathway, signifying their crucial role in host resistance to leaf spot pathogen. CONCLUSION: Our finding provide useful data on differential expression of proteins for designing novel management strategies to specifically target mango host defense components to achieve the best control of leaf spot disease in mango.
PXD055127	39973137	Post-translational cleavage generates truncated IgY forms in the snake Elaphe taeniura. 	Snake (Elaphe taeniura) IgY was truncated at N338 of the IgY heavy chain constant region	Elaphe taeniura, IgY, truncation	While variable regions of immunoglobulins are extensively diversified by V(D)J recombination and somatic hypermutation in vertebrates, the constant regions of immunoglobulin heavy chains also utilize certain mechanisms to produce diversity, including class switch recombination (CSR), subclass differentiation, and alternative expression of the same gene. Many species of birds, reptiles, and amphibians express a truncated isoform of immunoglobulin Y (IgY), termed IgY(DeltaFc), which lacks the upsilonCH3 and upsilonCH4 domains. In Anseriformes, IgY(DeltaFc) arises from alternative transcriptional termination sites within the same upsilon gene, whereas in some turtles, intact IgY and IgY(DeltaFc) are encoded by distinct genes. Different from the previously reported IgY(DeltaFc) variants, this study identified a truncated IgY in the snake Elaphe taeniura, characterized by the loss of only a portion of the CH4 domain. Western blotting and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry confirmed that this truncated IgY is generated by post-translational cleavage at N338 within the IgY heavy chain constant (CH) region. Furthermore, both human and snake asparaginyl endopeptidase were shown to cleave snake IgY in vitro. These findings reveal a novel mechanism for the production of shortened IgY forms, demonstrating that the immunoglobulin CH region undergoes diversification through distinct strategies across vertebrates.
PXD047871	39975173	Hookworm genes encoding intestinal excreted-secreted proteins are transcriptionally upregulated in response to the host's immune system. 	LC-MS/MS of excreted-secreted proteins of adult Ancylostoma ceylanicum hookworms, collection E20201108-05	Ancylostoma ceylanicum, ES proteins, Hookworm, excreted/secreted proteins	Hookworms are intestinal parasitic nematodes that chronically infect ~500 million people, with reinfection common even after clearance by drugs. How infecting hookworms successfully overcome host protective mechanisms is unclear, but it may involve hookworm proteins that digest host tissues, or counteract the host's immune system, or both. To find such proteins in the zoonotic hookworm Ancylostoma ceylanicum , we identified hookworm genes encoding excreted-secreted (ES) proteins, hookworm genes preferentially expressed in the hookworm intestine, and hookworm genes whose transcription is stimulated by the host immune system. We collected ES proteins from adult hookworms harvested from hamsters; mass spectrometry identified 565 A. ceylanicum genes encoding ES proteins. We also used RNA-seq to identify A. ceylanicum genes expressed both in young adults (12 days post-infection) and in intestinal and non-intestinal tissues dissected from mature adults (19 days post-infection), with hamster hosts that either had normal immune systems or were immunosuppressed by dexamethasone. In adult A. ceylanicum , we observed 1,670 and 1,196 genes with intestine- and non-intestine-biased expression, respectively. Comparing hookworm gene activity in normal versus immunosuppressed hosts, we observed almost no changes of gene activity in 12-day young adults or non-intestinal 19-day adult tissues. However, in intestinal 19-day adult tissues, we observed 1,951 positively immunoregulated genes (upregulated at least two-fold in normal hosts versus immunosuppressed hosts), and 137 genes that were negatively immunoregulated. Thus, immunoregulation was observed primarily in mature adult hookworm intestine directly exposed to host blood; it may include hookworm genes activated in response to the host immune system in order to neutralize the host immune system. We observed 153 ES genes showing positive immunoregulation in 19-day adult intestine; of these genes, 69 had ES gene homologs in the closely related hookworm Ancylostoma caninum , 24 in the human hookworm Necator americanus , and 24 in the more distantly related strongylid parasite Haemonchus contortus . Such a mixture of rapidly evolving and conserved genes could comprise virulence factors enabling infection, provide new targets for drugs or vaccines against hookworm, and aid in developing therapies for autoimmune diseases.
PXD070901	39975932	Biocompatible Sulfonium-Based Covalent Probes For Endogenous Tubulin Fluorescence Nanoscopy In Live And Fixed Cells. 	Biocompatible sulfonium-based covalent probes for endogenous tubulin fluorescence nanoscopy in live and fixed cells	6-SiR-o-C9-CTX, DatasetType:Proteomics, STED nanoscopy, fluorescent probes, in vivo	Fluorescent probes enable the visualization of dynamic cellular processes with high precision, particularly when coupled with super-resolution imaging techniques that surpass the diffraction limit. Traditional methods include fluorescent protein fusion (e.g., GFP) or organic fluorophores linked to ligands targeting the protein of interest. However, these approaches often introduce functional disruptions or ligand-associated biological effects. Herein, we address these challenges by developing covalent fluorescent probes for endogenous tubulin, a critical cytoskeletal protein involved in processes such as cell movement, division, and biomolecule trafficking. Using well-known tubulin binder cabazitaxel and cell permeable fluorophore silicon-rhodamine as a basis, we introduce a novel biocompatible cleavable linker containing a sulfonium center. This allowed the construction of the optimized probe, 6-SiR- o -C 9 -CTX , demonstrating excellent cell permeability, fluorogenic properties, and the ability to covalently label tubulin across various human cell lines. Importantly, the targeting moiety could be washed out while preserving tubulin staining, ensuring minimal disruption of tubulin function. This labeling technique is compatible with STED nanoscopy in both live and fixed cells, offering a powerful high-resolution imaging tool.
PXD060496	39976135	Integrative Multi-Omics Approaches Reveal Selectivity Profiles and Molecular Mechanisms of FIIN-2, a Covalent FGFR Inhibitor. 	Integrative analysis of Multi-omics data of FGFR inhibitor	FGFR, chemical proteomics, kinase inhibitor, phosphoproteomics, transcriptomics	Fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) inhibitors are emerged as an important class of targeted therapies in oncology, targeting key pathways associated with tumor growth, angiogenesis, and resistance to conventional treatments. FIIN-2, the first irreversible covalent pan-FGFR inhibitor, has shown promise in overcoming resistance due to gatekeeper mutations; however, its selectivity and molecular mechanisms in tumors remain poorly understood. In this study, an FIIN-2 chemical probe is designed and synthesized to identify both established and novel targets in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) via chemoproteomic profiling. An integrative multi-omics approach, including chemoproteomic, phosphoproteomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic analyses, is utilized to elucidate the full spectrum of target proteins, signaling pathways, and downstream effectors regulated by FIIN-2 in HCC. Notably, adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase alpha1 (AMPKalpha1) is identified as a novel target of FIIN-2, with Cys185 identified as its covalent binding site. These findings reveal that FIIN-2 can induce autophagy by directly binding to and activating AMPKalpha1, influencing its anti-tumor activity in HCC cells. Overall, this study greatly advances the understanding of FIIN-2's on- and off-target effects, offering a comprehensive view of its molecular mechanisms in cancer cells. The integrative multi-omics approach provides a valuable framework for the development and optimization of covalent kinase inhibitors.
PXD058176	39976173	AKT1 Phosphorylates FDX1 to Promote Cuproptosis Resistance in Triple-Negative Breast Cancer. 	AKT1 confers tumor resistance to cuproptosis by phosphorylating FDX1	cuproptosis	Cuproptosis, a recently defined copper-dependent cell death pathway, remains largely unexplored in tumor therapies, particularly in breast cancer. This study demonstrates that triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) bears a relatively elevated copper levels and exhibits resistance to cuproptosis. Mechanistically, copper activates the AKT signaling pathway, which inhibits ferredoxin-1 (FDX1), a key regulator of cuproptosis. AKT1-mediated FDX1 phosphorylation not only abrogates FDX1-induced cuproptosis and aerobic respiration but also promotes glycolysis. Consequently, the combination of AKT1 inhibitors and the copper ionophores synergistically alleviate TNBC tumorigenesis both in vitro and in vivo. In summary, the findings reveal a crucial mechanism underlying TNBC resistance to cuproptosis and suggest a potential therapeutic approach for TNBC.
PXD041822	39976430	Carbon upshift in Lactococcus cremoris elicits immediate initiation of proteome-wide adaptation, coinciding with growth acceleration and pyruvate dissipation switching. 	Proteome-wide adaptation of Lactococcus cremoris after a carbon upshift	Lactococcus cremoris, Protein turnover, environmental shift, metabolic switch, sugar	Fitness optimization in a dynamic environment requires bacteria to adapt their proteome in a tightly regulated manner by altering protein production and/or degradation. Here, we investigate proteome adaptation in Lactococcus cremoris following a sudden nutrient upshift (e.g., nutrients that allow faster growth) and focus especially on the fate of redundant proteins after the shift. Protein turnover analysis demonstrated that L. cremoris cultures shifted from galactose to glucose, immediately accelerate growth and initiate proteome-wide adjustment toward glucose-optimized composition. Redundant proteins were predominantly adjusted by lowering (or stopping) protein production combined with dilution by growth. However, pyruvate formate lyase activator (PflA) was actively degraded, which appears correlated to reduced 4Fe-4S cofactor availability. Active PflA removal induces the shutdown of galactose-associated mixed acid fermentation to accelerate the switch toward glucose-associated homolactic fermentation. Our work deciphers molecular adjustments upon environmental change that drive physiological adaptation, including growth rate and central energy metabolism.IMPORTANCEBacteria adapt to their environment by adjusting their molecular makeup, in particular their proteome, which ensures fitness optimization under the newly encountered environmental condition. We present a detailed analysis of proteome adaptation kinetics in Lactococcus cremoris following its acute transition from galactose to glucose media, as an example of a sudden nutrient quality upshift. Analysis of the replacement times of individual proteins after the nutrient upshift established that the entire proteome is instantly adjusting to the new condition, which coincides with immediate growth rate acceleration and metabolic adaptation. The latter is driven by the active removal of the pyruvate formate lyase activator protein that is pivotal in controlling pyruvate dissipation in L. cremoris. Our work exemplifies the amazing rate of molecular adaptation in bacteria that underlies physiological adjustments, including growth rate and carbon metabolism. This mechanistic study contributes to our understanding of adaptation in L. cremoris during the dynamic conditions it encounters during (industrial) fermentation, even though environmental transitions in these processes are mostly more gradual than the acute shift studied here.
PXD060528	39979280	Amylase/trypsin-inhibitor content and inhibitory activity of German common wheat landraces and modern varieties do not differ. 	Amylase/trypsin-inhibitor content and inhibitory activity of German common wheat landraces and modern varieties do not differ	Amylase/trypsin inhibitors, landraces, non-celiac wheat sensitivity, old varieties	Amylase/trypsin-inhibitors (ATIs) are triggers for wheat-related disorders like baker's asthma and non-celiac wheat sensitivity. With the rise of wheat-related disorders among the population, the hypothesis that breeding may have resulted in changes in the protein composition of wheat was put forward. The ATI content of 14 German common wheat landraces and six modern varieties harvested in three consecutive years was analyzed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, and the inhibitory activity against alpha-amylase was measured with an enzymatic assay. The mean ATI content and proportion of crude protein of both groups did not differ. There were also only small differences in the content and proportion of single ATIs. The mean values for the inhibitory activity of both groups were also similar. These results indicate that breeding might not have led to changes in the protein composition and landraces are unlikely to be better tolerated than modern varieties.
PXD059651	39979303	Structural basis for malate-driven, pore lipid-regulated activation of the Arabidopsis vacuolar anion channel ALMT9. 	Structural basis for malate-driven, pore lipid-regulated activation of the Arabidopsis vacuolar anion channel ALMT9.	ALMT9, lipid	In plant cells, ALMTs are key plasma and vacuolar membrane-localized anion channels regulating plant responses to the environment. Vacuolar ALMTs control anion accumulation in plant cells and, in guard cells, they regulate stomata aperture. The activation of vacuolar ALMTs depends on voltage and cytosolic malate, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. Here we report the cryo-EM structures of ALMT9 from Arabidopsis thaliana (AtALMT9), a malate-activated vacuolar anion channel, in plugged and unplugged lipid-bound states. In all these states, membrane lipids interact with the ion conduction pathway of AtALMT9. We identify two unplugged states presenting two distinct pore width profiles. Combining structural and functional analysis we identified conserved residues involved in ion conduction and in the pore lipid interaction. Molecular dynamics simulations revealed a peculiar anion conduction mechanism in AtALMT9. We propose a voltage-dependent activation mechanism based on the competition between pore lipids and malate at the cytosolic entrance of the channel.
PXD056647	39979395	Label free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals the physiological and biochemical responses of Arabidopsis thaliana to cinnamon essential oil. 	Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis reveals the physiological and biochemical responses of Arabidopsis thaliana to cinnamon essential oil	Botanical herbicides, Differentially accumulated proteins, Essential oils, HDMSE, Synapt G2-Si, weed populations	The increasing use of synthetic chemical herbicides has resulted in environmental, human and animal health issues. This has also led to the development of herbicide resistance in weed populations. The use of essential oils (EOs) can contribute to the development of effective, eco-friendly and nature-based alternatives to these chemical products due to their phytotoxicity and multisite action. Our study aimed to evaluate the proteomic response of Arabidopsis thaliana (A. thaliana) leaves to the application of a cinnamon essential oil (CEO) emulsion. The results showed that the application of CEO emulsion at a concentration of 6% severely impacted the proteomic profile of A. thaliana, especially for membrane proteins and those involved in the photosynthesis process. Interestingly, 40 proteins were identified and listed as the most differentially accumulated proteins in the leaves of A. thaliana. CEO decreased the expression of all the proteins associated with catabolism and anabolism processes while simultaneously increasing the expression levels of proteins involved in the response to oxidative stress. Overall, these findings allowed us to obtain a global view of the proteome response to CEO, opening promising perspectives for the development of natural herbicides, especially given the low probability of developing resistant weed populations.
PXD057746	39979925	Omics data integration analysis identified new biological insights into chronic antibody-mediated rejection (CAMR). 	Omics data integration analysis identified new biological insights into chronic antibody mediated rejection (CAMR).	Chronic antibody-mediated rejection, allograft loss, renal transplant	BACKGROUND: In the last two decades, many studies based on omics technologies have contributed to defining the clinical, immunological, and histological fingerprints of chronic antibody-mediated rejection (CAMR), the leading cause of long-term kidney allograft failure. However, the full biological machinery underlying CAMR has only been partially defined, likely due to the fact thatsingle-omics technologies capture only specific aspects of the biological system and fail to provide a comprehensive understanding of this clinical complication. METHODS: This study integrated mass spectrometry-based proteomic profiling of serum samples from 19 patients with clinical and histological evidence of CAMR and 26 kidney transplant recipients with normal graft function and histology (CTR) with transcriptomic analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from an independent cohort of 10 CAMR and 8 CTR patients. Data analysis was conducted using unsupervised hierarchical clustering (multidimensional scaling with k-means) and Spearman's correlation test. Partial least squares discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) with the importance in projection (VIP) score identified key proteins differentiating CAMR from CTR. ELISA was used to validate the omics results. RESULTS: Proteomic analysis identified 18 proteins that significantly differentiated CAMR from CTR (p < 0.01): five were more abundant (CHI3L1, LYZ, PRSS2, CPQ, IGLV3-32), while 13 were less abundant (SERPINA5, SERPING1, KNG1, CAMP, VNN1, BTD, WDR1, PON3, AHNAK2, MELTF, CA1, CD44, CUL1). Transcriptomic profiling revealed 6 downregulated and 33 upregulated genes in CAMR versus CTR (p < 0.01). Notably, only 2 biological elements were significantly deregulated in both omics analyses: chitinase-3-like protein 1 (CHI3L1) and plasma protease inhibitor C1 (SERPING1). CHI3L1, previously associated with the severity of tissue damage in kidney diseases, was up-regulated in CAMR in both transcriptomics and proteomics, while SERPING1, a serine esterase inhibitor that blocks the classical and lectin pathway of complement, was up-regulated in CAMR in transcriptomics but down-regulated in proteomics. ELISA validated the omics results, and the ROC curve showed that CHI3L1 has good discrimination power between CAMR and CTR (AUC of ROC curve of 0.81). CONCLUSIONS: Our multi-omics data, although performed in a relatively small cohort of patients, revealed new systemic biological elements involved in the pathogenesis of CAMR and identified CHI3L1 as a new potential biomarker and/or therapeutic target for this important clinical complication. Future validation of these findings in larger patient cohorts should be conducted to better evaluate their clinical utility.
PXD059577	39980697	A novel two-component system contributing the catabolism of c-di-GMP influences virulence in Aeromonas veronii. 	Functional Characterization of the Histidine Kinase ONR73_07150 in Aeromonas veronii	Aeromonas veronii C4, ONR73_07150, bacteria	Introduction: Response regulators from diverse two-component systems often function as diguanylate cyclases or phosphodiesterases, thereby enabling precise regulation of intracellular c-di-GMP levels to control bacterial virulence and motility. However, the regulatory mechanisms of c-di-GMP require further elucidation. Methods: This study confirmed that ArrS and ArrR form a two-component system via structural analysis, two-hybrid, and phosphodiesterase activity detection. To evaluate the impact of ArrS/ArrR on intracellular c-di-GMP levels, biofilm detection, motility detection, fluorescence reporter plasmids, and LC-MS/MS analysis were employed. One-hybrid, EMSA, and RT-qPCR were used to demonstrate the function of ArgR on arrSR promoter. The roles of ArrS/ArrR in Aeromonas veronii were investigated using RT-qPCR, murine model, and proteomics. Results: ArrS and ArrR constituted a two-component system in Aeromonas veronii and were transcriptionally repressed by ArgR. ArrR exhibited phosphodiesterase activity, which is inhibited through phosphorylation mediated by ArrS. In Aeromonas veronii, ArrS/ArrR significantly altered the intracellular c-di-GMP levels. In a murine model, DeltaarrS exhibited increased pathogenicity, leading to elevated TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma levels in serum, and severer toxicity to spleen and kidney. These effects might be elucidated by the upregulated inflammation-associated proteins in DeltaarrS. Moreover, the exonuclease RecB was also up-regulated in DeltaarrS. Discussion: We elucidated the regulatory mechanism of ArrS/ArrR on intracellular c-di-GMP levels and its impact on the virulence in Aeromonas veronii, and discussed the intricate relationship between c-di-GMP metabolism and arginine metabolism.
PXD055393	39981793	Exoproteomic Evidence for BcTSPO-Mediated Regulation of Virulence Factors in Bacillus cereus. 	Analysis of the exoproteomes of Bacillus cereus ATCC 14579 and its tspO mutant at late exponential and stationary phases	Bacillus, exoproteome, metabolism, pathogen, quorum sensing, virulence, virulence factors	Bacillus cereus translocator protein (BcTSPO) is a transmembrane protein that plays a regulatory role in various Bacillus cereus phenotypes, potentially including its virulence. Given that the exoproteome is a major determinant of B. cereus virulence, particularly during the late stages of active growth, its analysis is crucial for understanding the regulatory functions of BcTSPO. In this study, we conducted a comparative analysis of the exoproteomes and cellular proteomes of a Deltatspo mutant and the wild-type ATCC 14579 strain during the late exponential and early stationary growth phases. Shotgun proteomics revealed that the absence of BcTSPO significantly depleted the exoproteome of secreted virulence factors, including the HBL, NHE, and CytK enterotoxins. Interestingly, the cholesterol-dependent cereolysin O (CLO) was more abundant in the Deltatspo exoproteome, indicating a distinct regulatory mechanism. The cellular proteome analysis further confirmed that BcTSPO positively regulates, likely indirectly, the synthesis of enterotoxins and negatively regulates the production of CLO. Additionally, the Deltatspo exoproteome was enriched in moonlighting proteins, reflecting the impact of BcTSPO absence on cellular metabolism and stress responses. Overall, these findings highlight the critical role of BcTSPO in shaping the composition of both the exoproteome and cellular proteome, with significant implications for the virulence of B. cereus.
PXD059482	39982033	Changes in the dynamic characteristics of G-protein can alter the immune-protection efficacy of rabies virus vaccine. 	Structural Analysis of Rabies Virus Glycoprotein	N-glycan, rabies virus	The efficacy of the G-protein is influenced by N-linked glycosylation, which serves as the sole immunogen of the rabies virus vaccine. However, achieving satisfactory immune-protection efficacy remains challenging, owing to the heterogeneous glycosylation of G-proteins. Within molecular dynamics, examining the impact of N-glycan heterogeneity on the structural characteristics of G-proteins provides insights into the relationship between antigens and the efficacy of rabies virus vaccines. Glycosylation is regulated by host cells. In rabies virus cultured in Vero cells (VRV), all N-glycosylation sites of the G-protein underwent modification. In contrast, rabies virus G-protein cultured in KMB17 cells (human diploid cell vaccine [HDCV]) was only modified by N-glycans at amino acid positions 247 and 319. Furthermore, treatment of VRV with de-glycosylation significantly improved its immune-protective efficacy, whereas de-glycosylation did not alter the immune-protective efficacy of HDCV. To support the impact of glycosylation on VRV efficacy, the structures and dynamics of G-proteins were analyzed using GROMACS. Specifically, the hydrophobicity, flexibility, and radius of gyration of the G-protein trimer in VRV were significantly altered by excessive hydrogen bonds formed by the three-branched hybrid glycan at the aa 319 site. These changes increase the instability of the G-protein trimer and may lead to a decrease in vaccine protective efficacy. Ultimately, we determined that N-glycan heterogeneity affects the immune-protection effect of antigen proteins by altering their dynamic characteristics, enhancing our understanding of the correlation between antigen structural characteristics and efficacy. IMPORTANCE: N-glycosylation of rabies virus glycoprotein dynamically regulates protein folding, stability, and antigenicity. Therefore, regulation of N-glycan modification is key to improving vaccine stability and protective efficacy. How the type and modification sites of N-glycans affect the protective efficacy of rabies vaccines remains unclear. Our research indicates that there are differences in the protective efficacy of rabies virus G-proteins modified with different N-glycans. Moreover, the modification of the three-branched hybrid glycan at the aa 319 site of G-protein significantly altered the hydrophobicity, flexibility, and radius, and increased its trimeric antigen instability through molecular dynamics demonstrations. These findings update the current understanding of the impact of glycans on vaccine antigenicity and develop a system to evaluate the stability of antigen glycoproteins based on molecular dynamics.
PXD058233	39982318	Identifying Endogenous Proteins of Perennial Ryegrass (Lolium perenne) with Ex Vivo Antioxidant Activity. 	Lolium perenne wet fractionation	Perennial ryegrass, screw pressing	Background: During the initial steps of green biorefining aimed at protein recovery, endogenous proteins and enzymes, along with, e.g., phytochemical constituents, are decompartmentalized into a green juice. This creates a highly dynamic environment prone to a plethora of reactions including oxidative protein modification and deterioration. Obtaining a fundamental understanding of the enzymes capable of exerting antioxidant activity ex vivo could help mitigate these reactions for improved product quality. Methods: In this study, we investigated perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne var. Abosan 1), one of the most widely used turf and forage grasses, as a model system. Using size exclusion chromatography, we fractionated the green juice to investigate in vitro antioxidant properties and coupled this with quantitative bottom-up proteomics, GO-term analysis, and fraction-based enrichment. Results: Our findings revealed that several enzymes, such as superoxide dismutase and peroxiredoxin proteoforms, already known for their involvement in in vivo oxidative protection, are enriched in fractions displaying increased in vitro antioxidant activity, indicating retained activity ex vivo. Moreover, this study provides the most detailed characterization of the L. perenne proteome today and delivers new insights into protein-level partitioning during wet fractionation. Conclusions: Ultimately, this work contributes to a better understanding of the first steps of green biorefining and provides the basis for process optimization.
PXD055200	39982319	Systems Biology of Recombinant 2G12 and 353/11 mAb Production in CHO-K1 Cell Lines at Phosphoproteome Level. 	The phosphoproteome of recombinant 2G12 and 353/11 mAb producing CHO-K1 cell lines	Chinese hamster ovary, LFQ, phosphoproteome, tunicamycin	Background: Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells are extensively used in the pharmaceutical industry for producing complex proteins, primarily because of their ability to perform human-like post-translational modifications. However, the efficiency of high-quality protein production can vary significantly for monoclonal antibody-producing cell lines, within the CHO host cell lines or by extrinsic factors. Methods: To investigate the complex cellular mechanisms underlying this variability, a phosphoproteomics analysis was performed using label-free quantitative liquid chromatography after a phosphopeptide enrichment of recombinant CHO cells producing two different antibodies and a tunicamycin treatment experiment. Using MaxQuant and Perseus for data analysis, we identified 2109 proteins and quantified 4059 phosphosites. Results: Significant phosphorylation dynamics were observed in nuclear proteins of cells producing the difficult-to-produce 2G12 mAb. It suggests that the expression of 2G12 regulates nuclear pathways based on increases and decreases in phosphorylation abundance. Furthermore, a substantial number of changes in the phosphorylation pattern related to tunicamycin treatment have been detected. TM treatment affects, among other phosphoproteins, the eukaryotic elongation factor 2 kinase (Eef2k). Conclusions: The alterations in the phosphorylation landscape of key proteins involved in cellular processes highlight the mechanisms behind stress-induced cellular responses.
PXD058846	39982321	Proteomic Comparison of Acute Myeloid Leukemia Cells and Normal CD34(+) Bone Marrow Cells: Studies of Leukemia Cell Differentiation and Regulation of Iron Metabolism/Ferroptosis. 	AML patients samples compared to Healthy Human CD34+ cells (LFQ LC-MSMS)	AML, LFQ	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive bone marrow malignancy that can be cured only by intensive chemotherapy possibly combined with allogeneic stem cell transplantation. We compared the pretreatment proteomic profiles of AML cells derived from 50 patients at the time of first diagnosis with normal CD34(+) bone marrow cells. A comparison based on all AML and CD34(+) normal cell populations identified 121 differentially abundant proteins that showed at least 2-fold differences, and these proteins included several markers of neutrophil differentiation (e.g., TLR2, the integrins ITGM and ITGX, and downstream mediators including RHO GTPase, S100A8, S100A9, S100A22). However, the expression of these 121 proteins varied between patients, and a subset of 28 patients was characterized by increased long-term AML-free survival, signs of myeloid AML cell differentiation, and favorable genetic abnormalities. These two main patient subsets (28 with differentiation versus 22 with fewer signs of differentiation) also differed with regard to the phosphorylation of 16 differentially abundant proteins. Furthermore, we also classified our patients based on their expression of 16 proteins involved in the regulation of iron metabolism/ferroptosis and showing differential expression when comparing AML cells and normal CD34+ cells. Among the 22 patients with less favorable prognosis, we could then identify a genetically heterogeneous subset characterized by adverse prognosis (i.e., death from primary resistance/relapse) and an iron metabolism/ferroptosis protein profile showing similarities with normal CD34(+) cells. We conclude that proteomic profiles differ between AML and normal CD34(+) cells; especially, proteomic differences reflecting differentiation and regulation of iron metabolism/ferroptosis are associated with risk of relapse after intensive conventional therapy.
PXD055913	39982420	Disruption of oocyte SUMOylation impacts critical regulatory processes during folliculogenesis in mice. 	Profiling postnatal folliculogenesis in ovaries with loss of oocyte SUMOylation	SUMOylation, fertility, follicle, ovary, reproduction	The conjugation of small ubiquitin-like modifiers (SUMO) to target proteins, known as SUMOylation, plays a crucial role in regulating protein homeostasis, activity, interaction with other proteins, and subcellular localization. Loss of SUMOylation in non-growing oocytes by conditional deletion of the E2 sumo conjugating enzyme, Ube2i, at the primordial follicle stage leads to female sterility due to complex changes in oocyte development, including altered folliculogenesis, defective meiotic progression, and premature loss of the ovarian reserve. In this study, proteomics was used to compare control and Ube2i conditional knockout ovaries during the first wave of folliculogenesis to identify key differences that may drive the premature follicle loss phenotype. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD055913. Label-free mass spectrometry results showed that 238 proteins were significantly altered more than 2-fold (P < 0.05). Proteins upregulated in the Ube2i conditional knockout ovaries included those involved in mRNA splicing and WNT signaling, while those downregulated were related to metabolism, mitochondria, and the maternal effect proteins NLRP2 and NLRP9B. The majority of differentially expressed proteins showed no change by transcriptome analysis, indicating protein level regulation and revealing potential SUMOylation targets with necessary roles in oocyte and follicle development.
PXD050078	39986097	Cellular internalization pathways of environmentally exposed microplastic particles: Phagocytosis or macropinocytosis? 	Cellular internalization pathways of environmentally exposed microplastic particles	Microplastic, eco-corona	Microplastic particles (MP) ubiquitously occur in all environmental compartments where they interact with biomolecules, forming an eco-corona on their surfaces. The eco-corona affects the surface properties of MP and consequently how they interact with cells. Proteins, an integral component within the eco-corona, may serve as a ligand driving the interaction of MP with membrane receptors. To date, it is not known, whether eco-coronae originating from different environmental media differ in their proteinaceous compositions and whether these particles interact differently with cells. We show that the protein composition of the eco-coronae formed in freshwater (FW) and salt water (SW) are distinct from each other. We did not observe different adhesion strengths between MP coated with different eco-coronae and cells. However, the internalization efficiency and the underlying internalization mechanisms significantly differed between FW- and SW eco-coronae. By inhibiting actin-driven and receptor-mediated internalization processes using Cytochalasin-D, Amiloride, and Amantadine, we show that FW microplastic particles predominantly become internalized via phagocytosis, while macropinocytosis is more important for SW microplastic particles. Overall, our findings show that the origin of eco-coronae coatings are important factors for the cellular internalization of microplastic particles. This highlights the relevance of eco-coronae for adverse effects of environmentally relevant microplastic particles on cells and organisms.
PXD060873	39986117	Characterization of the glutathione redox state in the Golgi apparatus. 	Order 28341 - Carla Miro Vinyals 2022-05-09		Redox homeostasis is crucial for cell function, and, in eukaryotic cells, studying it in a compartmentalized way is essential due to the redox variations between different organelles. The redox state of organelles is largely determined by the redox potential of glutathione, EGSH, and the concentration of its reduced and oxidized species, [GS]. The Golgi apparatus is an essential component of the secretory pathway, yet little is known about the concentration or redox state of GSH in this organelle. Here, we characterized the redox state of GSH in the Golgi apparatus using a combination of microscopy and proteomics methods. Our results prove that the Golgi apparatus is a highly oxidizing organelle with a strikingly low GSH concentration (EGSH = - 157 mV, 1-5 mM). These results fill an important gap in our knowledge of redox homeostasis in subcellular organelles. Moreover, the new Golgi-targeted GSH sensors allow us to observe dynamic changes in the GSH redox state in the organelle and pave the way for further characterization of the Golgi redox state under various physiological and pathological conditions.
PXD056588	39987261	Cooperation of TRADD- and RIPK1-dependent cell death pathways in maintaining intestinal homeostasis. 	Identification of TRADD phosphorylation  sites	TRADD binding phosphorylation sites	Dysfunctional NF-kappaB signaling is critically involved in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). We investigated the mechanism by which RIPK1 and TRADD, two key mediators of NF-kappaB signaling, in mediating intestinal pathology using TAK1 IEC deficient model. We show that phosphorylation of TRADD by TAK1 modulates RIPK1-dependent apoptosis. TRADD and RIPK1 act cooperatively to mediate cell death regulated by TNF and TLR signaling. We demonstrate the pathological evolution from RIPK1-dependent ileitis to RIPK1- and TRADD-co-dependent colitis in TAK1 IEC deficient condition. Combined RIPK1 inhibition and TRADD knockout completely protect against intestinal pathology and lethality in TAK1 IEC KO mice. Furthermore, we identify distinctive microbiota dysbiosis biomarkers for RIPK1-dependent ileitis and TRADD-dependent colitis. These findings reveal the cooperation between RIPK1 and TRADD in mediating cell death and inflammation in IBD with NF-kappaB deficiency and suggest the possibility of combined inhibition of RIPK1 kinase and TRADD as a new therapeutic strategy for IBD.
PXD056125	39987352	Insights into the role of hnRNPK in spermatogenesis via the piRNA pathway. 	Differential proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of  Hnrnpk conditional knockout mouse testes	TMT	Deletion of hnRNPK in mouse spermatogonia leads to male sterility due to arrest permatogenesis, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. This study investigated the testicular proteome on postnatal day 28 (P28) to elucidate the infertility associated with Hnrnpk deficiency, identifying 791 proteins with altered expression: 256 were upregulated, and 535 were downregulated. Pathway enrichment analysis demonstrated that the downregulated proteins are primarily involved in spermatogenesis, fertilization, and piRNA metabolic processes. In Hnrnpk cKO mice, key proteins essential for piRNA metabolism, such as PIWIL1, TDRD7, DDX4, and MAEL, exhibited reduced expression, resulting in impaired piRNA production. Mechanistic studies employing RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP), dual-luciferase reporter assays, and fluorescence in situ hybridization/immunofluorescence (FISH/IF) assays demonstrated that hnRNPK directly interacts with the 3'UTR of piRNA pathway transcripts, enhancing their translational efficiency. These results establish that Hnrnpk deficiency disrupts the piRNA pathway by diminishing the expression of essential regulatory proteins, thereby impairing piRNA production and spermatogenesis. Our findings elucidate a novel molecular basis for infertility linked to hnRNPK dysfunction and advance understanding of post-transcriptional regulation in male germ cell development.
PXD055938	39987554	Wide-ranging organic nitrogen diets of freshwater Picocyanobacteria. 	Organic Nitrogen Diet of Freshwater Picocyanobacteria	Amino acids, cyanobacteria, freshwater, synechococcus	Freshwater picocyanobacteria (Syn/Pro clade) contribute substantially to the primary production of inland waters, especially when nitrogen is limiting or co-limiting. Nevertheless, they remain poorly understood ecologically and genomically, with research on their nitrogen acquisition mainly focused on inorganic sources. However, dissolved organic nitrogen is often a major component of the freshwater nitrogen pool and it is increasingly evident that many forms are bioavailable. Comparative genomic analyses, axenic growth assays, and proteomic analyses were used here to investigate organic nitrogen acquisition mechanisms in the Syn/Pro clade. Comparative analysis of the genomes of 295 freshwater and marine strains of picocyanobacteria identified a large diversity of amino acid transporters, the absence of degradation pathways for five amino acids (asparagine, phenylalanine, serine, tryptophan, and tyrosine), and alternative mechanisms for chitin assimilation (direct chitin catabolise vs initial acetylation to chitosan and subsequent degradation). Growth assays demonstrated the widespread bioavailability of amino acids, including basic amino acids though the known basic amino acid transporter is not encoded. This suggests further genetic components are involved, either through extracellular catabolism or the presence of novel transporters. Proteomic analysis demonstrates the dual utilisation of nitrogen and carbon from the amino acid substrate and provides evidence for a mild stress response through the up-regulation of lysine biosynthesis and FtsH1, potentially caused by accumulation of secondary metabolites. Our results are relevant to understanding how picocyanobacteria have come to thrive in dissolved organic nitrogen-rich oligotrophic environments and explores how their different molecular capabilities may influence communities between habitats.
PXD054745	39988124	Mapping the initial effects of carcinogen-induced oncogenic transformation in the mouse bladder. 	Initial effects of BBN treatment on mouse bladder	BBN, Bladder	Characterizing the initial stages of oncogenic transformation allows the identification of tumor-promoting processes before the inherent clonal selection of the aggressive clones. Here, we used global proteomics, genetic cell tracing, and immunofluorescence to dynamically map the very early stages of cancer initiation in a mouse model of bladder cancer. We observed a very rapid and incremental proteome dysregulation, with changes in the energy metabolism, proliferation and immune signatures dominating the landscape. The changes in the lipid metabolism were immediate and defined by an increase fatty acid metabolism and lipid transport, followed by the activation of the immune landscape. Alongside the changes in the immune signature and lipid metabolism, we also mapped a clear increase in the cell cycle-related pathways and proliferation. Proliferation was mainly restricted to the basal epithelial layer rapidly leading to urothelium thickening, despite the progressive loss of the superficial layer. Moreover, we observed a tilt in the energy balance towards increased glucose metabolism, probably characterizing cells of the tumor microenvironment. All of the observed proteome signature changes were persistent, being retained and sometimes intensified or diversified along the timeline. The signatures observed in this pilot suggest these processes as potentially targetable drivers of the future neoplastic transformations in the bladder.
PXD051371	39988583	Targeting NLRC5 in cardiomyocytes protects postinfarction cardiac injury by enhancing autophagy flux through the CAVIN1/CAV1 axis. 	NLRC5 IP-MS in  neonatal mouse cardiomyocyte lysates	Immunoprecipitation, NLRC5	NOD-like receptor (NLR) family proteins are implicated in various cardiovascular diseases. However, the precise role of NLRC5, the largest member of this family, in myocardial infarction (MI) remains poorly understood. This study reveals that NLRC5 is upregulated in the hearts of both patients with MI and MI mice. Silencing NLRC5 in cardiomyocytes impairs cardiac repair and functional recovery, while its overexpression enhances these processes. Furthermore, NLRC5 promotes autophagy in cardiomyocytes, and its protective effects are diminished upon autophagy inhibition. Mechanistically, NLRC5 interacts with CAVIN1, facilitating its degradation and subsequent downregulation of CAV1, which in turn increases the expression of the ATG12-ATG5 complex to stimulate autophagy. Conversely, CAV1 overexpression partially suppresses autophagy and attenuates the improvements in cardiac function observed in NLRC5-overexpressing MI hearts. This study highlights the critical regulatory role of NLRC5 in modulating cardiomyocyte autophagy flux, suggesting that NLRC5 activation may represent a promising therapeutic strategy for MI.
PXD033840	39988663	OCT4 translationally promotes AKT signaling as an RNA-binding protein in stressed pluripotent stem cells. 	Endogenous OCT4 interactome in hESC	ESC, OCT4	BACKGROUND: Despite numerous studies addressing the molecular mechanisms by which pluripotent stem cells (PSCs) maintain self-renewal and pluripotency under normal culture conditions, the fundamental question of how PSCs manage to survive stressful conditions remains largely unresolved. Post-transcriptional/translational regulation emerges to be vital for PSCs, but how PSCs coordinate and balance their survival and differentiation at translational level under extrinsic and intrinsic stress conditions is unclear. METHODS: The high-throughput sequencing of cross-linking immunoprecipitation cDNA library (HITS-CLIP) was employed to decipher the genome-wide OCT4-RNA interactome in human PSCs, a combined RNC-seq/RNA-seq analysis to assess the role of OCT4 in translational regulation of hypoxic PSCs, and an OCT4-protein interactome to search for OCT4 binding partners that regulate cap-independent translation initiation. By taking the Heterozygous Knocking In N-terminal Tags (HKINT) approach that specifically disrupts the 5'-UTR secondary structure and tagging its protein product of the mRNA from one allele while leaving that from the other allele intact, we examined the effect of disrupting the OCT4/5'-UTR interaction on translation of AKT1 mRNA. RESULTS: We revealed OCT4 as a bona fide RNA-binding protein (RBP) in human PSCs that bound to the 5'-UTR, 3'-UTR and CDS regions of mRNAs. Multiple known proteins participating in IRES-mediated translation initiation were detected in the OCT4-protein interactome, and a combined RNC-seq/RNA-seq analysis further confirmed a crucial role of OCT4 in translational regulation of PSCs in response to hypoxic stress. Remarkably, OCT4 bound to the GC-rich elements in the 5'-UTR of AKT1 and multiple PI3K/AKT-pathway-gene mRNAs, and promoted their translation initiation via IRES-mediated pathways under stress conditions. Specifically disrupting the AKT1 mRNA 5'-UTR structure and the OCT4/5'-UTR interaction by the HKINT approach significantly reduced the translation level of AKT1 that led to a higher susceptibility of PSCs to oxidative stress-induced apoptotic death and prioritized differentiation toward ectoderm and endoderm. CONCLUSIONS: Our results reveal OCT4 as an anti-stress RBP for translational regulation that critically coordinates the survival and differentiation of PSCs in response to various stressors.
PXD054664	39988729	Secretomes of Gingival Fibroblasts From Periodontally Diseased Tissues: A Proteomic Analysis. 	Proteomic analysis of human gingival fibroblast secretomes from healthy and periodontitis patients	conditioned media, periodontitis	OBJECTIVE: Cell secretomes represent a promising strategy for periodontal and bone regeneration. The objective of this study was to characterize the secretome of human gingival fibroblasts (GF) from periodontally diseased tissues (GF-perio) using proteomics. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Conditioned media of GF-perio from periodontitis patients (n = 6, 48-h serum-free culture) were subjected to liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry. Global profiles, differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), and functional/gene-set enrichment (FEA) were analyzed using bioinformatics. Selected bone regeneration-related proteins were additionally measured using a multiplex immunoassay. Conditioned media of GF from periodontally healthy subjects were used as a reference. RESULTS: Overall, 1833 proteins were detected in GF-perio secretomes, including several growth factors, cytokines, chemokines, and extracellular matrix proteins important for wound healing and regeneration. Key bone-related cytokines (FGF2, MCP1, GPNMB, MMP2, IL6, IL8) were confirmed by an immunoassay. Compared to the reference group, 127 exclusive proteins and 73 DEPs (p < 0.05) were identified in the GF-perio group. FEA revealed significant enrichment of "exosome" and "cytoplasm" related cellular components in GF-perio secretomes. CONCLUSION: The secretome of GF from periodontally diseased tissues may hold therapeutic potential, with several proteins important for wound healing and regeneration, especially those related to exosome functions.
PXD054937	39989279	Proteome of Renal Tubuli and Serum Differentiate Pre-Existing Type 2 Diabetes and Post-Transplant Diabetes in Kidney Transplant Recipients. 	Proteome of renal tubuli and serum differentiate pre-existing type 2 diabetes and post-transplant diabetes in kidney transplant recipients	PTDM, Tubuli, transplant	PURPOSE: Diabetes mellitus (DM) is a major cause of end-stage kidney disease (ESKD), with kidney transplantation being the preferred treatment. However, post-transplant diabetes mellitus (PTDM) increases mortality and graft loss. While PTDM and Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) share risk factors, their mechanisms differ, particularly in diabetic nephropathy (DN). This study aimed to investigate the molecular differences in PTDM by mapping the proteomes of proximal tubuli and serum in normoglycemic (NG), pre-transplant T2DM, and PTDM patients one year post-transplantation. Experimental Design Proteomic analysis was performed on microdissected proximal tubular cells and serum samples from kidney transplant recipients categorized as NG, pre-transplant T2DM, or PTDM at one year post-transplantation. Mass spectrometry was used to identify differentially expressed proteins. Data analyses were performed using gene ontology databases and pathway analysis. RESULTS: Proteomic analysis revealed key differences, including significant dysregulation of mitochondrial proteins and lipid metabolism pathways in PTDM patients compared to T2DM and NG groups. Additionally, we observed distinct serum patterns of cholesterol metabolism dysregulation in PTDM, highlighting a complex interplay between fatty acid metabolism, mitochondrial dysfunction and systemic lipid dysregulation that may drive renal injury in PTDM-related DN. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: This pilot study is the first to perform proteomic analysis on both microdissected tubular cells and serum from post-transplant PTDM, pre-transplant T2DM and NG transplant recipients. The proteomic differences between PTDM and T2DM could help to develop targeted therapies and early diagnostic markers, ultimately improving transplant outcomes and patient management. Further research is needed to validate these findings and explore their therapeutic potential.
PXD046868	39989337	The thylakoid lumen Deg1 protease affects non-photochemical quenching via the levels of violaxanthin de-epoxidase and PsbS. 	The thylakoid lumen Deg1 protease affects non-photochemical quenching via the levels of violaxanthin de-epoxidase and PsbS	Cycloheximide, Deg1 Protease	Non-photochemical quenching (NPQ), the dissipation of excess light energy as heat, has been long recognized as a major protective mechanism that minimizes the potential for oxidative damage to photosystem II (PSII) reaction centers. Two major positive contributors to NPQ are the carotenoid zeaxanthin, generated from violaxanthin by the enzyme violaxanthin de-epoxidase (VDE or NPQ1), and the thylakoid protein PsbS (NPQ4). The involvement of the lumenal Deg proteases in the repair of PSII from photoinhibition prompted us to further explore their possible role in other responses of Arabidopsis thaliana to high light. Here we show that upon exposure to high light, the single deg1 and the triple deg158 mutants display different levels and kinetics of NPQ, compared with the deg58 mutant and WT that behave alike. In response to high light, the two genotypes lacking Deg1 overaccumulate NPQ1 and NPQ4. After temporal inhibition of protein translation in vivo, the level of these two proteins in deg1 is higher than in WT. Together, the results suggest that Deg1 represents a new level of regulation of the NPQ process through adjusting the quantity of NPQ1 and NPQ4 proteins, probably through their proteolysis.
PXD050819	39989399	Platelet C3G protects from liver fibrosis, while enhancing tumor growth through regulation of the immune response. 	Regulation of fibrosis and liver cancer development and progression by platelet C3G	C3G (RapGEF1), liver cancer, liver fibrosis, platelets	Primary liver cancer usually occurs in the context of chronic liver disease (CLD), in association with fibrosis. Platelets have emerged as important regulators of CLD and liver cancer, although their precise function and mechanism of action need to be clarified. C3G (RapGEF1) regulates platelet activation, adhesion, and secretion. Here we evaluate the role of platelet C3G in chemically induced fibrosis and liver cancer associated with fibrosis using genetically modified mouse models. We found that while overexpression of full-length C3G in platelets decreased liver fibrosis induced by chronic treatment with CCl4, overexpressed C3G lacking the catalytic domain did not, although in both cases platelet recruitment to the liver was similar. In addition, C3G deletion in platelets (PF4-C3GKO mouse model) increased CCl4-induced liver damage and hepatic fibrosis, reducing liver platelets and macrophages. Moreover, early liver immune response to CCl4 was altered in PF4-C3GKO mice, with a remarkable lower activation of macrophages and increased monocyte-derived macrophages compared to WT mice. On the other hand, in response to DEN+CCl4, PF4-C3G WT mice exhibited more and larger liver tumors than PF4-C3GKO mice, accompanied by the presence of more platelets, despite having less fibrosis in previous steps. Liver immune cell populations were also differentially regulated in PF4-C3GKO mice, highlighting the higher number of macrophages, likely with a pro-inflammatory phenotype, present in the liver in response to chronic DEN+CCl4 treatment. Proteins upregulated or downregulated in platelet-rich plasma from PF4-C3GKO compared to WT mice might regulate the immune response and tumor development. In this regard, enrichment analyses using proteomic data showed changes in several proteins involved in platelet activation and immune response pathways. Additionally, the higher secretion of CD40L by PF4-C3GKO platelets could contribute to their antitumor effect. Therefore, platelet C3G presents antifibrotic and protumor effects in the liver, likely mediated by changes in the immune response. (c) 2025 The Author(s). The Journal of Pathology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of The Pathological Society of Great Britain and Ireland.
PXD057509	39991159	Quantitative N-glycoproteomic analysis reveals glycosylation signatures of plasma immunoglobulin G in systemic sclerosis. 	Quantitative N-glycoproteomic analysis reveals glycosylation signatures of plasma immunoglobulin G in systemic sclerosis	Glycopeptide, Immunoglobulin G (IgG), N-glycosylation, Systemic sclerosis (SSc)	Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is a perplexing autoimmune disorder, characterized by mysterious causes, high mortality rates, and a lack of effective treatments. The role of abnormal glycosylation in the onset of autoimmune diseases has been recognized for some time. Nonetheless, the intricate details of intact glycopeptides in SSc remain elusive owing to challenges in their detection. In this study, we characterized plasma immunoglobulin G (IgG) intact N-glycopeptides from 30 SSc patients and 30 healthy controls (HCs) via our recently developed intact glycopeptide analysis method GlycoQuant. Through this approach, twelve differentially expressed intact N-glycopeptides were identified. The correlation of specific intact N-glycopeptides with the clinical features of SSc patients was analyzed. The results revealed a notable increase in the levels of 6 intact N-glycopeptides (IgG2-N3H3F1, IgG2-N3H4F1, IgG2-N4H4F1, IgG2-N4H5F1, IgG2-N5H4F1, and IgG2-N5H5F1) and a decrease in the levels of another set of 6 intact N-glycopeptides (IgG1-N4H3F1, IgG2-N3H6F1A1, IgG2-N4H4F1A1, IgG2-N5H3F1, IgG3-N4H3F1, and IgG3-N4H4F1). These changes in the levels of intact N-glycopeptides are associated with various aspects of SSc, including diffuse SSc (dSSc), interstitial lung disease (ILD), disease progression, cardiovascular involvement and C-reactive protein in the peripheral blood. In summary, this study offers a detailed overview of the intact N-glycopeptide profile in the peripheral blood of patients with SSc, providing valuable insights that could propel further research into SSc.
PXD058967	39991162	Multi-omics analysis reveals the sensitivity of immunotherapy for unresectable non-small cell lung cancer. 	Multi-omics analysis reveals the sensitivity of immunotherapy for unresectable non-small cell lung cancer	Immune checkpoint inhibitors, Metabolomics, Non-small cell lung cancer, Prediction models	Background: To construct a prediction model consisting of metabolites and proteins in peripheral blood plasma to predict whether patients with unresectable stage III and IV non-small cell lung cancer can benefit from immunotherapy before it is administered. Methods: Peripheral blood plasma was collected from unresectable stage III and IV non-small cell lung cancer patients who were negative for driver mutations before receiving immunotherapy. Then we classified samples according to the follow-up results after two courses of immunotherapy and non-targeted metabolomics and proteomics analyses were performed to select different metabolites and proteins. Finally, potential biomarkers were picked out by applying machine learning methods including random forest and stepwise regression and prediction models were constructed by logistic regression. Results: The presence of metabolites and proteins in peripheral blood plasma was causally associated with both non-small cell lung cancer and PD-L1/PD-1 expression levels. A total of 2 differential metabolites including 5-sulfooxymethylfurfural and Anthranilic acid and 2 differential proteins including Immunoglobulin heavy variable 1-45 and Microfibril-associated glycoprotein 4 were selected as reliable biomarkers. The area under the curve (AUC) of the prediction model built on clinical risks was merely 0.659. The AUC of metabolomics prediction model was 0.977 and the AUC of proteomics was 0.875 while the AUC of the integrative-omics prediction model was 0.955. Conclusions: Metabolic and protein biomarkers in peripheral blood both have high efficacy and reliability in the prediction of immunotherapy sensitivity in unresectable stage III and IV non-small cell lung cancer, but validation in larger population-based cohorts is still needed.
PXD055481	39992359	Enhancing Proteomics Quality Control: Insights from the Visualization Tool QCeltis. 	QCeltis Case Study 1: Depleted Plasma QC Dataset	DIA, Depleted Plasma, Digestion Replicates, Quality Control, Technical Replicates	Large-scale mass-spectrometry-based proteomics experiments are complex and prone to analytical variability, requiring rigorous quality checks across each step in the workflow: sample preparation, chromatography, mass spectrometry, and the bioinformatics stages. This includes quality control (QC) measures that address biological and technical variation. Most QC approaches involve detecting sample outliers and monitoring parameters related to sample preparation and mass spectrometer performance. Evaluating these parameters regularly is essential for reliable downstream analysis and proteomics research. Here, we introduce "QCeltis", a Python package designed to facilitate automated QC analysis across the proteomics workflow, aiding in the identification of technical biases and consistency verification. QCeltis is a versatile tool for detecting QC issues in large-scale data-independent acquisition proteomics experiments by not only identifying sample preparation and acquisition issues but also aiding in differentiating between QC issues vs batch effects. QCeltis is available for command-line use in Windows and Linux environments. We present three case studies showcasing QCeltis's capabilities across different data sets, including depleted plasma, whole blood vs plasma, and dried blood spot samples, emphasizing its potential impact on large-scale proteomics projects. This package can be used to enhance data reliability and enable nuanced downstream analysis and interpretation for proteomics studies.
PXD066376	39992792	GPNMB and ATP6V1A interact to mediate microglia phagocytosis of multiple types of pathological particles. 	MS assay of proteins after CO-IP with GPNMB antibody in hippocampus area	CO-IP, GPNMB, hipocampus, pilocarpine	Pronounced elevation of glycoprotein non-metastatic melanoma B (GPNMB) is a common phenomenon in a variety of brain diseases, but the expression patterns, functions, and molecular signaling of GPNMB have not been well studied. Here, we showed that pathological factors, including neuronal degeneration caused by seizures, caspase-3-induced neuronal apoptosis, neuronal debris, and beta-amyloid, induced "on-demand" GPNMB expression in hippocampal microglia. Genetic ablation of GPNMB did not affect acute seizures but worsened chronic epileptogenesis. We found that GPNMB functioned in phagocytosis, deficiency of which resulted in defects in both phagocytic engulfment and degradation. GPNMB could be internalized into cells, where it wrapped engulfed pathogenic particles and presented them to lysosomes through interaction with lysosomal vacuolar-type proton ATPase catalytic subunit A (ATP6V1A). Activating ATP6V1A was able to rescue GPNMB-deficiency-caused phagocytosis impairment. Thus, microglial GPNMB-ATP6V1A might be a common treatment target of a batch of chronic neurological disorders, and clearing the degenerative neurons might be more valuable than reserving them to protect the brain.
PXD056190	39994194	Potent and selective SETDB1 covalent negative allosteric modulator reduces methyltransferase activity in cells. 	TMT-ABPP cysteine profiling of SETDB1 modulators in MCF7 native proteome	ABPP, SETDB1, TMT, cysteine	A promising drug target, SETDB1, is a dual methyl-lysine (Kme) reader and methyltransferase implicated in cancer and neurodegenerative disease progression. To help understand the role of the triple Tudor domain (3TD) of SETDB1, its Kme reader, we first identify a low micromolar potency small molecule ligand, UNC6535, which occupies simultaneously both the TD2 and TD3 reader binding sites. Further optimization leads to the discovery of UNC10013, a covalent 3TD ligand targeting Cys385 of SETDB1. UNC10013 is potent with a kinact/KI of 1.0 x 10(6) M(-1)s(-1) and demonstrates proteome-wide selectivity. In cells, negative allosteric modulation of SETDB1-mediated Akt methylation occurs after treatment with UNC10013. Therefore, UNC10013 is a potent, selective, and cell-active covalent ligand for the 3TD of SETDB1, demonstrating negative allosteric modulator properties and making it a promising tool to study the biological role of SETDB1 in disease progression.
PXD057557	39994512	Comparative proteome and transcriptome analyses suggest the regulation of starch and sucrose metabolism and rubber biosynthesis pathways in the recovery of tapping panel dryness in rubber tree. 	Proteome Analysis of the Proteins Related with the Recovery of Tapping Panel Dryness in Rubber Trees	Recovery, Rubber tree, TMT, Tapping Panel Dryness	BACKGROUND: Tapping panel dryness (TPD) in rubber tree has become the most severe restricting factor of natural rubber production. To date, there is no effective measures to prevent and control TPD. Previous studies primarily focused on analyzing the molecular mechanism underlying TPD occurrence. However, there is no research on the molecular mechanism of TPD recovery. RESULTS: In this study, the TPD trees were recovered by treatment with TPD rehabilitation nutrient agents that could promote the recovery of latex flow on the tapping panel of TPD trees. The genes and proteins involved in TPD recovery were first identified by employing integrated transcriptomics and proteomics analyses. In total, 2029 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and 951 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were detected in the bark of recovery trees compared to that of TPD trees. Among them, 19 DEPs and 11 DEGs were found to be involved in the starch and sucrose metabolism pathway, suggesting their important roles in regulating the syntheses of sucrose and D-glucose, which were the key precursors of natural rubber biosynthesis. Furthermore, 16 DEPs and 15 DEGs were identified in the rubber biosynthesis pathway. Interestingly, almost all the DEPs and DEGs related to rubber biosynthesis exhibited significantly up-regulated expressions in the recovery trees, indicating that latex biosynthesis were probably markedly enhanced during TPD recovery. CONCLUSIONS: These results provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying TPD recovery, as well as excellent supplements to the mechanisms of TPD occurrence, which will contribute to the development of more effective agents for the prevention and treatment of TPD in the future.
PXD058058	39994701	Aquaporins modulate the cold response of Haemaphysalis longicornis via changes in gene and protein expression of fatty acids. 	Molecular mechanisms of aquaporins regulation of cold response in the Haemaphysalis longicornis	AQPs, RNAi, low temperature, vector control, water balance	BACKGROUND: As ectotherms that spend most of their life in the environment (off-host), ticks face challenges in maintaining water balance, and some species must cope with severe low winter temperatures. Aquaporins (AQPs) are essential membrane proteins that enhance cold tolerance in many animals by regulating homeostatic processes. However, the dynamic expressions and involvement of aquaporins in the cold stress of ticks remain unclear. METHODS: In the present study, three AQP genes, HlAQP2, HlAQP3, and HlAQP5, belonging to the major intrinsic protein (MIP) superfamily, were characterized from the important vector tick Haemaphysalis longicornis. Then, multiple bioinformatics analyses were performed. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) was used to detect different expressions of H. longicornis genes under different cold treatment conditions. RNA interference was used to explore the relationship between AQP and the cold response of H. longicornis. Additionally, proteomic and transcriptomic analyses were used to investigate the mechanisms underlying the effects of AQPs on cold response in ticks. RESULTS: The amino acid sequence of AQPs shows high homology in Ixodida, with HlAQP2 and HlAQP5 proteins comprising two asparagine-proline-alanine (NPA) motifs, whereas HlAQP3 protein was featured by glycerol facilitator GlpF channel. The spatiotemporal expression of AQPs in H. longicornis varied significantly after low temperature treatment, and different expression patterns were observed over prolonged exposure periods. RNAi knockdown of AQPs significantly increased tick mortality after treatment at a sublethal temperature of - 14 degreesC for 2 h. Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis revealed that the differentially expressed genes and proteins caused by the knockdown of AQPs are mainly enriched in the fatty acid metabolism pathway. CONCLUSIONS: The above results indicated that AQPs could regulate tick cold response by modulating water balance and fatty acid metabolism.
PXD054439	39994730	Giardiavirus infection alleviates growth restriction and intestinal damage caused by the intestinal parasite Giardia duodenalis. 	Proteomic sequencing of Giardia duodenalis-secreted extracellular vesicles	Giardia duodenalis, extracellular vesicles	BACKGROUND: Giardia duodenalis is a prevalent intestinal pathogen causing giardiasis, a condition characterized by diarrhea and frequently linked to malnutrition and growth impairments in children. The virulence of Giardiavirus (GLV) may efficiently clear Giardia parasites from infected patients. However, we have a limited understanding of GLV transmission among Giardia species and GLV-infected Giardia's impact on pathogenicity. METHODS: This study investigated extracellular vesicles (EVs) isolated via ultracentrifugation or exosome assay kit to detect the presence of GLV in EVs, the results were detected using ultrastructure and molecular methods, including transmission electron microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), and dot blot. Transwell migration assays confirmed the spread of GLV-enveloped EVs among Giardia species using inhibitor experiments and immunofluorescence. Mice gavaged with Giardia, with or without GLV infection, were assessed for disease progression, including growth parameters (weight and size gains), intestinal permeability, and pathology. RESULTS: Parts of GLV exploit the Giardia EVs pathway to reach the extracellular environment, allowing GLV to spread among Giardia species via these EVs. The uptake of GLV-containing EVs by Giardia results in rapid trophozoite infection, and GLV wrapped in EVs also offers protection against external interference. Importantly, EV-coated GLV-infected Giardia leads to divergent clinical symptoms in mice, posing less risk to mice and reducing symptoms, such as emaciation, stunted growth, and lesion damage, compared with GLV-free Giardia-infected mice. CONCLUSIONS: Our studies show that GLV wrapped in EVs can spread among Giardia species, and GLV infection alleviates the lesions caused by Giardia. These findings reveal that GLV could be a target for the development of novel intervention strategies against Giardia.
PXD050725	39995872	Functional-proteomics-based investigation of the cellular response to farnesyltransferase inhibition in lung cancer. 	Functional proteomics-based investigation of the cellular response to farnesyl transferase inhibition in lung cancer (farnesylated proteins pull-down)	Lung cancer, cell line, farnesylation	Farnesylation is a lipid post-translational modification of proteins crucial for protein membrane anchoring and cellular signaling. Farnesyltransferase inhibitors (FTIs), such as tipifarnib, are being tested in cancer therapy. However, the full impact of FTIs on farnesylation substrates remains poorly understood, thus limiting their use in precision medicine. In this study, we performed a global proteomics analysis to investigate farnesylation and the effects of tipifarnib in lung cancer cell lines. Using metabolic labeling and mass spectrometry, we identified farnesylated proteins and mapped their subcellular localization. We also analyzed tipifarnib-dependent protein relocalization and proteome-wide changes. Key findings include the potential therapeutic value of FTIs for NRAS-mutated melanoma and GNAQ/GNA11-mutated uveal melanoma by inhibiting INPP5A farnesylation. Additionally, we identified a synergistic drug combination involving tipifarnib and a ferroptosis inducer and discovered PTP4A1 as a regulator of interferon signaling. Our data, covering 15,080 proteins, offer valuable insights for future studies of farnesylation and FTIs.
PXD050607	39995874	Differentiation of high risk prostate cancer with a facile urinary exosome detection workflow. 	Establishment of a new isolation method for urinary exosomes	EVLatch, Urinary exosomes, ultracentrifugation	Clear differentiation of high-grade and clinically insignificant prostate cancer (PCa) is critical for clinical decision-making. Here, we developed a proprietary urinary exosome isolation approach (EVLatch) and established a facile diagnostic workflow. We discovered that EEF1A1 levels, abundantly expressed on urinary exosomes, positively correlate to urinary exosome counts irrespective of source and collection time and demonstrated that EEF1A1 enables in-assay quantification of urinary exosomes. Importantly, a prostate cancer urinary EVLatch-based artificial intelligence diagnostics (PURE-AID) classification system utilizing PCA3, HOXC6, and DLX1 as targets with SPDEF for reference and EEF1A1 for quality checking, trained on 271 patients, achieved an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) of 0.76 in the test set of 351 patients. Combination of PURE-AID with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and age increases AUROC to 0.80 and reduces 54.3% of unnecessary biopsies with 86.8% sensitivity. Our study provides a new classification system for differentiating high-grade PCa in a workflow- and patient-friendly manner.
PXD059964	39996758	Adiponectin Influences the Behavior of Stem Cells in Hormone-Resistant Breast Cancer. 	Adiponectin influences the behavior of stem cells in hormone-resistant breast cancer	: Adiponectin, Breast cancer, Cancer Stem Cells, Endocrine resistance, Tamoxifen	In the breast tumor microenvironment (TME), adipocytes exert a selective pressure on the behavior of breast cancer stem cells (BCSCs), which are involved in endocrine therapy resistance. In obesity, adipocytes secrete reduced levels of adiponectin, which promotes the growth and progression of ERalpha-positive breast cancer (BC). Here, we examined how low adiponectin levels affect the enrichment of the BCSC subpopulation and the mechanisms contributing to the maintenance of endocrine therapy resistance in BC. Flow cytometry, qRT-PCR, and Western blotting analysis were performed to assess stemness, the cell cycle, and apoptosis markers in MCF-7 wild-type (WT) and tamoxifen-resistant (TR) mammospheres. nLC-MS/MS was employed to profile and compare the proteome of BCSCs. Differentially expressed proteins were intersected with data from the Metacore(TM) dataset. Our study demonstrated that adiponectin increased the percentage of CD44(+)/CD24(-)/ALDH1(+) stem-like cells in TR MCF-7 mammospheres. Specifically, adiponectin contributed to the maintenance of BCSC bulk in TR MCF-7 cells through a slow cycling rate, supported by decreased levels of Cyclin D1 and Ki67 and increased p21 and p27 expression, and through escape from apoptosis, sustained by reduced ROS production and preserved maintenance of mitochondrial membrane potential. Our results provide new insights into the contribution of adiponectin to poor ERalpha-positive BC outcomes. Deeply understanding adiponectin's role in stemness may disclose novel therapeutic approaches to treat hormone-resistant obese BC patients.
PXD050205	39997215	Protein bL38 facilitates incorporation of uL6 during assembly of the 50S subunit in Flavobacterium johnsoniae. 	Protein bL38 facilitates incorporation of uL6 during assembly of the 50S subunit in Flavobacterium johnsoniae	ribosomes	Previous studies of the 70S ribosome from Flavobacterium johnsoniae revealed a novel ribosomal protein, bL38, which interacts with uL6 on the 50S subunit. This 5.6 kDa protein is conserved across the Bacteroidia and encoded downstream of bL28 and bL33 in a three-gene operon. Here, we show that bL38 is critical for the growth of F. johnsoniae, and depletion of bL38 leads to accumulation of immature 50S particles, which lack uL6 and retain precursor rRNA sequences. Cryo-EM analysis of these particles reveals several putative assembly intermediates, all showing an absence of electron density for uL6 and the entire uL12 stalk region and additional densities corresponding to the unprocessed ends of the pre-23S rRNA. Extra copies of the uL6 gene can rescue the phenotypes caused by bL38 depletion, suggesting that bL38 facilitates uL6 incorporation during 50S subunit biogenesis. Cryo-EM analysis of 50S particles from this rescued strain reveals nearly twice as many intermediates, suggesting a broader and more robust assembly landscape. Differential scanning fluorimetry shows that uL6 of F. johnsoniae is intrinsically unstable, and bL38 increases the melting temperature of uL6 by 12degreesC. Collectively, these data suggest that bL38 binds and stabilizes uL6, thereby promoting 50S biogenesis in the Bacteroidia.
PXD048117	39997217	Phosphorylated BLM peptide acts as an agonist for DNA damage response. 	Role of BLM helicase in augmenting the phosphorylation of DNA damage response (DDR) proteins.	ATM, BLM helicase, DNA damage response, DNA repair	Upon exposure to ionizing irradiation, the MRE11-RAD50-NBS1 complex potentiates the recruitment of ATM (ataxia-telangiectasia mutated) kinase to the double-strand breaks. We show that the lack of BLM causes a decrease in the autophosphorylation of ATM in mice mammary glands, which have lost one or both copies of BLM. In isogenic human cells, the DNA damage response (DDR) pathway was dampened in the absence of BLM, which negatively affected the recruitment of DDR factors onto the chromatin, thereby indicating a direct role of BLM in augmenting DDR. Mechanistically, this was due to the BLM-dependent dissociation of inactive ATM dimers into active monomers. Fragmentation analysis of BLM followed by kinase assays revealed a 20-mer BLM peptide (91-110 aa), sufficient to enhance ATM-dependent p53 phosphorylation. ATM-mediated phosphorylation of BLM at Thr99 within BLM (91-110) peptide enhanced ATM kinase activity due to its interaction with NBS1 and causing ATM monomerization. Delivery of phosphomimetic T99E counterpart of BLM (91-110 aa) peptide led to ATM activation followed by restoration of the DDR even in the absence of ionizing irradiation (both in cells and in BLM knockout mice), indicating its role as a DDR agonist, which can be potentially used to prevent the initiation of neoplastic transformation.
PXD051672	39997220	NAIL-MS reveals tRNA and rRNA hypomodification as a consequence of 5-fluorouracil treatment. 	Impact of 5-FU on the proteome of HEK293T cells	5-fluorouracil, HEK293T, human cell culture, shotgun proteomics	Recent studies have investigated RNA modifications in response to stressors like chemical agents, including the anticancer drug 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Traditionally, 5-FU's mechanism of action was believed to involve inhibition of thymidylate synthase, leading to thymidine depletion and cancer cell death. However, recent findings suggest that ribosome collisions and defects in ribosomal RNA (rRNA) processing drive 5-FU toxicity, potentially through RNA writer inhibition. To explore the effects of 5-FU on rRNA and transfer RNA (tRNA) modifications, we exposed HEK293T cells to 5-FU and quantified key RNA modifications. We found 55% and 40% reduction in 5-methyluridine and pseudouridine (Psi), respectively, in tRNAs, but only minor changes in rRNA. Using nucleic acid isotope labeling coupled mass spectrometry (NAIL-MS), we identified that pre-existing tRNA and rRNA retained their modification profiles, while newly synthesized RNAs lost various modifications. In addition, new tRNAs exhibited modification reprogramming, particularly important for cell survival after 5-FU removal. In rRNA, we observed reduced levels of mature rRNA, with hypomodification in newly transcribed mature rRNA, particularly in Psi and ribose methylations. In summary, we observe RNA hypomodification in both tRNA and rRNA due to 5-FU, which might be the molecular basis of 5-FU's mechanism of action.
PXD048036	39997414	Improving the Proteome-Mining of Schizophyllum commune to Enhance Medicinal Mushroom Applications. 	Proteomic profiles of Schizophyllum commune mycelium, using two different protein extraction methods	Protein extraction method, Schizophyllum commune, basidiomycetes, mycelium, wood decay fungi	This study presents the first comprehensive proteomic profile of an Italian strain of Schizophyllum commune, a highly heterogeneous white-rot fungal species with significant potential for industrial, nutraceutical, cosmeceutical, and clinical applications. Three protein extraction methods and their impact on yield and resulting protein composition have been compared. Results revealed that the combination of Tris-Cl and urea increases the total protein yield and the variety of enzymatic species related to pivotal pathways. Notably, over 2000 proteins were identified, including enzymes involved in the growth and development of mycelium, trehalose biosynthesis, and different types of carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes). These enzymes are crucial for nutraceutical and agro-industrial applications of S. commune. The multiple-step proteomic approach used could be a model for investigating other fungal species.
PXD052310	39998225	A proteomic and functional view of intrabacterial lipid inclusion biogenesis in mycobacteria. 	A proteomic and functional view of intrabacterial lipid inclusion biogenesis in mycobacteria	APEX2, ILI-associated proteins, Intracellular lipid inclusion, Mycobacterium abscessus, lipid metabolism, persistence, proximity labelling	During infection and granuloma formation, pathogenic mycobacteria store triacylglycerol as intrabacterial lipid inclusions (ILIs). This accumulation of nutrients provides a carbon source for bacterial persistence and slows down intracellular metabolism. Mycobacterium abscessus (Mab), a rapidly growing non-tuberculous actinobacterium, produces ILI throughout its infection cycle. Here, Mab was used as a model organism to identify proteins associated with ILI accumulation on a global scale. By using the APEX2 proximity labeling method in an in vitro model for ILI accumulation, we identified 228 proteins possibly implicated in ILI biosynthesis. Fluorescence microscopy of strains overexpressing eight ILI-associated proteins (IAP) candidates fused to superfolder green fluorescent protein showed co-localization with ILI. Genetic inactivation of these potential IAP-encoding genes and subsequent lipid analysis emphasized the importance of MAB_3486 and MAB_4532c as key enzymes influencing triacylglycerol storage. This study underscores the dynamic process of ILI biogenesis and advances our understanding of lipid metabolism in pathogenic mycobacteria. Identifying major IAP in lipid accumulation offers new therapeutic perspectives to control the growth and persistence of pathogenic mycobacteria. IMPORTANCE: This study sheds light into the complex process of intracellular lipid accumulation and storage in the survival and persistence of pathogenic mycobacteria, which is of clinical relevance. By identifying the proteins involved in the formation of intrabacterial lipid inclusions and revealing their impact on lipid metabolism, our data may lead to the development of new therapeutic strategies to target and control pathogenic mycobacteria, potentially improving outcomes for patients with mycobacterial infections.
PXD038735	39998869	Aeromonas hydrophila CobQ is a new type of NAD(+)- and Zn(2+)-independent protein lysine deacetylase. 	Aeromonas hydrophila CobQ is a new type of NAD+/Zn2+ independent protein lysine deacetylase in prokaryote	Aeromonas hydrophila, CobQ, Lysine acetylation modification, NAD+/Zn2+ -independent, lysine deacetylases	Protein N(E)-lysine acetylation (Kac) modifications play crucial roles in diverse physiological and pathological functions in cells. In prokaryotic cells, there are only two types of lysine deacetylases (KDACs) that are Zn(2+)- or NAD(+)-dependent. In this study, we reported a protein, AhCobQ, in Aeromonas hydrophila ATCC 7966 that presents NAD(+)- and Zn(2+)-independent KDAC activity. Furthermore, its KDAC activity is located in an unidentified domain (from 195 to 245 aa). Interestingly, AhCobQ has no homology with current known KDACs, and no homologous protein was found in eukaryotic cells. A protein substrate analysis showed that AhCobQ has specific protein substrates in common with other known KDACs, indicating that these KDACs can dynamically co-regulate the states of Kac proteins. Microbiological methods employed in this study affirmed AhCobQ's positive regulation of isocitrate dehydrogenase (ICD) enzymatic activity at the K388 site, implicating AhCobQ in the modulation of bacterial enzymatic activities. In summary, our findings present compelling evidence that AhCobQ represents a distinctive type of KDAC with significant roles in bacterial biological functions.
PXD050251	39	Formation of transient complexes in the glutamate dehydrogenase catalyzed reaction. 	Phosphorylation-Driven Epichaperome Assembly: A Critical Regulator of Cellular Adaptability and Proliferation	HSP90, epichaperome, posttranslational modifications	The reaction of glutamate dehydrogenase and glutamate (gl) with NAD+ and NADP+ has been studied with stopped-flow techniques. The enzyme was in all experiments present in excess of the coenzyme. The results indicate that the ternary complex (E-NAD(P)H-kg) is present as an intermediate in the formation of the stable complex (E-NAD(P)H-gl). The identification of the complexes is based on their absorption spectra. The binding of the coenzyme to (E-gl) is the rate-limiting step in the formation of (E-NAD(P)H-kg) while the dissociation of alpha-ketoglutarate (kg) from this complex is the rate-limiting step in the formation of (E-NAD(P)H-gl). The Km for glutamate was 20-25 mM in the first reaction and 3 mM in the formation of the stable complex. The Km values were independent of the coenzyme. The reaction rates with NAD+ were approximately 50% greater than those with NADP+. Furthermore, high glutamate concentration inhibited the formation of (E-NADH-kg) while no substrate inhibition was found with NADP+ as coenzyme. ADP enhanced while GTP reduced the rate of (E-NAD(P)H-gl) formation. The rate of formation of (E-NAD(P)H-kg) was inhibited by ADP, while it increased at high glutamate concentration when small amounts of GTP were added. The results show that the higher activity found with NAD+ compared to NADP+ under steady-state assay conditions do not necessarily involve binding of NAD+ to the ADP activating site of the enzyme. Moreover, the substrate inhibition found at high glutamate concentration under steady-state assay condition is not due to the formation of (E-NAD(P)H-gl) as this complex is formed with Km of 3 mM glutamate, and the substrate inhibition is only significant at 20-30 times this concentration.
PXD057848	40000393	Quantitative proteomics identifies plasma protein alterations that associate with metabolic and thrombotic profile changes after bariatric surgery. 	Quantitative proteomics identifies plasma protein alterations that associate with metabolic and thrombotic profile changes after bariatric surgery	DIA, SWATH-MS, bariatric surgery, blood, obesity, plasma	OBJECTIVE: Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) surgery has been shown to lead to favourable health outcomes in obese patients. However, the molecular changes that occur and how they relate to clinical measures are poorly understood. Here, we characterise the proteomic alterations that occur in plasma of RYGB patients before and 9 months after surgery using quantitative proteomics. METHODS: Plasma proteomics was performed by sequential window acquisition of all theoretical fragment ion spectra mass spectrometry (SWATH-MS) to identify and quantify differentially abundant proteins. Relationships between significantly altered proteins and clinical markers were examined. A gene set enrichment analysis was also conducted to identify altered pathways. RESULTS: From the proteomic analysis, 27 proteins increased, and 43 proteins decreased in abundance 9 months after surgery, providing insights into the physiological changes that accompany weight loss. Proteins including sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain 3 (ITIH3) and apolipoprotein D (APOD), which increased in abundance post-surgery, highlight improvements in lipid regulation, insulin sensitivity and inflammation. Proteins involved in coagulation, including alpha2-macroglobulin, kallikrein-B1, prothrombin, and factor (FX, FXI and FXII), exhibited reduced levels, aligning with a decrease in thrombotic potential. CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide a mechanistic understanding of how bariatric surgery leads to systemic changes in metabolic and haemostatic pathways, thus favourably modulating the risk of developing cardiovascular disease.
PXD061425	40000409	Structure-guided development of chemically tailored peptide binders of RNF43/ZNRF3 to enable versatile design of membrane protein-targeting PROTACs. 	Structure-guided development of chemically tailored peptide binders of RNF43/ZNRF3 to enable versatile design of membrane protein-targeting PROTACs	PDL1, PROTAC, RSPO	Targeted membrane protein degradation using cell surface E3 ligases RNF43/ZNRF3 via proteolysis targeting chimeras (PROTACs) represents an effective strategy for treating membrane drug targets that cannot be fully inhibited using traditional inhibitors. Several ingenious chimeras have been developed to tether RNF43/ZNRF3 to target membrane proteins, resulting in the degradation of targets at sub-nanomolar concentrations both in vitro and in vivo. However, currently available RNF43/ZNRF3 binders are genetically encoded and have poor plasticity, which limits the design and promotion of such PROTACs. Here, we exploited the alphafold predicted complex structures of ligand-bound RNF43/ZNRF3 and developed a class of chemically tailored peptide binders for ZNRF3/RNF43. With these peptide binders that can be conveniently prepared by de novo peptide synthesis, we established a new membrane protein degradation platform that allows versatile modular design and targeted degradation of clinically relevant membrane proteins, i.e. PD-L1 and EGFR. This study presents a new subtype within the PROTAC field to develop therapeutic peptides targeting membrane proteins.
PXD042535	40000800	Comparison of pregnant mare serum gonadotropin products with surprising differences in protein content. 	Comparing different pregnant mare serum gonadotropin products: surprising differences in protein content and a new sialic acid O-acetylation	O-acetylation, equine chorionic gonadotropin (eCG) and lutropin, pregnant mare serum gonadotropin (PMSG), sulfation	Equine chorionic gonadotropin (eCG) is a widely used hormone that synchronizes the female cycle and induces estrus in livestock. eCG is a heterodimeric glycoprotein composed of non-covalently linked alpha- and beta-chains whose glycosylation profiles determine the in vivo activity of the hormone. The commercially available eCG products are crudely purified from the serum of pregnant mares, hence called pregnant mare serum gonadotropin (PMSG). Appropriate glycosylation of the protein is crucial for the correct binding to the receptor, receptor activation, and its half-life. The exact protein composition of the various commercial PMSG products and their specific glycosylation pattern have not been characterized so far. Therefore, we used proteomic approaches to analyse and compare four commercial PMSG products. Here we show that the examined PMSGs share a surprisingly low level of commonalities (5.5%) in protein composition among the four tested products, with serum proteins as the primary variable. Analysing the site-specific N-glycosylation, we confirmed the presence of O-acetylation of sialic acids at the structure of the glycans of eCG, which we could not find in significant amounts on human CG, suggesting that this modification is species-specific. It remains to be tested whether the O-acetylation plays an important role in the function of PMSG. However, this modification shall be considered while recombinant eCG are produced.
PXD059443	40001544	Exploring the Effects of Metformin on the Body via the Urine Proteome. 	Exploring the effects of metformin on the body by urine proteome	metformin, post-translational modifications, urine	Metformin is the first-line medication for treating type 2 diabetes mellitus, with more than 200 million patients taking it daily. Its effects are extensive and play a positive role in multiple areas. Can its effects and potential mechanisms be explored through the urine proteome? In this study, 166 differential proteins were identified following the administration of 150 mg/(kg.d) of metformin to rats for five consecutive days. These included complement component C6, pyruvate kinase, coagulation factor X, growth differentiation factor 15, carboxypeptidase A4, chymotrypsin-like elastase family member 1, and L-lactate dehydrogenase C chain. Several of these proteins have been reported to be directly affected by metformin or associated with its effects. Multiple biological pathways enriched by these differential proteins, or proteins containing differentially modified peptides, have been reported to be associated with metformin, such as the glutathione metabolic process, negative regulation of gluconeogenesis, and the renin-angiotensin system. Additionally, some significantly changed proteins and enriched biological pathways, not yet reported to be associated with metformin's effects, may provide clues for exploring its potential mechanisms. In conclusion, the application of the urine proteome offers a comprehensive and systematic approach to exploring the effects of drugs, providing a new perspective on the study of metformin's mechanisms.
PXD058170	40001591	Differential Expression of ARG1 and MRC2 in Retinal Muller Glial Cells During Autoimmune Uveitis. 	Proteome changes in retinal Mueller glial cells from a spontaneous equine model for autoimmune uveitis compared to healthy controls	autoimmune uveitis, equine recurrent uveitis (ERU), quantitative label-free LC-MS/MS, retinal Mueller glial cells (RMG), retinal neuroinflammation, spontaneous equine animal model	Retinal Muller glial cells (RMG) play a crucial role in retinal neuroinflammation, including autoimmune uveitis. Increasing evidence supports their function as active modulators of immune responses and potential atypical antigen-presenting cells (APCs). To further investigate this hypothesis, we conducted a differential proteome analysis of primary equine RMG from healthy controls and horses with equine recurrent uveitis (ERU), a spontaneous model of autoimmune uveitis. This analysis identified 310 proteins with differential abundance. Among these, the Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) class II and the enzyme Arginase 1 (ARG1) were significantly enriched in RMG from uveitis-affected horses, whereas Mannose Receptor C-type 2 (MRC2) and its interactor Thrombospondin 1 (THBS1) were more abundant in healthy RMG. The detection of MHC class II in equine RMG, consistent with previous studies, validates the robustness of our approach. Furthermore, the identification of ARG1 and MRC2, together with THBS1, provides new insights into the immunomodulatory and antigen-presenting properties of RMG. Immunohistochemical analyses confirmed the proteomic findings and revealed the spatial distribution of ARG1 and MRC2. ARG1 and MRC2 are thus markers for RMG in the neuroinflammatory or physiological milieu and highlight potential differences in the immune function of RMG, particularly in antigen presentation.
PXD060463	40001593	Proteome and Metabolome Alterations in Radish (Raphanus sativus L.) Seedlings Induced by Inoculation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens. 	Proteome and metabolome alterations in radish (Raphanus sativus L.) seedlings induced by inoculation with Agrobacterium tumefaciens	Agrobacterium, Agrobacterium tumefaciens, Radish, Raphanus sativus, agrobacterial infection, crown gall tumor, metabolic shifts, shotgun proteomics	Infection of higher plants with agrobacteria (Agrobacterium tumefaciens) represents one of the most comprehensively characterized examples of plant-microbial interactions. Incorporation of the bacterial transfer DNA (T-DNA) in the plant genome results in highly efficient expression of the bacterial auxin, cytokinin and opine biosynthesis genes, as well as the host genes of hormone-mediated signaling. These transcriptional events trigger enhanced proliferation of plant cells and formation of crown gall tumors. Because of this, infection of plant tissues with A. tumefaciens provides a convenient model to address the dynamics of cell metabolism accompanying plant development. To date, both early and late plant responses to agrobacterial infection are well-characterized at the level of the transcriptome, whereas only little information on the accompanying changes in plant metabolism is available. Therefore, here we employ an integrated proteomics and metabolomics approach to address the metabolic shifts and molecular events accompanying plant responses to inoculation with the A. tumefaciens culture. Based on the acquired proteomics dataset complemented with the results of the metabolite profiling experiment, we succeeded in characterizing the metabolic shifts associated with agrobacterial infection. The observed dynamics of the seedling proteome and metabolome clearly indicated rearrangement of the energy metabolism on the 10th day after inoculation (d.a.i.). Specifically, redirection of the energy metabolism from the oxidative to the anaerobic pathway was observed. This might be a part of the plant's adaptation response to tumor-induced hypoxic stress, which most likely involved activation of sugar signaling.
PXD053767	40001617	The Secretome of the Inductive Tooth Germ Exhibits Signals Required for Tooth Development. 	Quantitative LC-MS/MS analysis of secretome of Mesenchymal Cells from Tooth Germ of Mice	Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, Secretome, Tandem Mass Tagging	Teeth develop from reciprocal signaling between inductive and receptive cells. The inductive signals for tooth development are initially in the epithelium of the developing branchial arch, but later shift to the underlying mesenchyme of a developing tooth germ. The inductive signals that are needed for tooth development have not yet been fully identified. Our lab previously provided a basis for bioengineering new teeth by separating the tooth germ's epithelial and mesenchyme cells into a single cell population and recombing them. This approach, however, is not clinically applicable as the cells lose their inductive ability when expanded in vitro. In this study, we investigate whether the secretome and small extracellular vehicles (sEV) derived from inductive tooth germ mesenchyme can contribute to inductive signals required for tooth development. To address this, small extracellular vesicles and secretome were purified from inductive tooth germ mesenchyme and characterized. We investigated the proteome of sEV and proteome of inductive tooth germ mesenchyme and the impact of the culture condition and duration on the proteome. Additionally, we investigated the transcriptomic changes in tooth germ epithelium after treatment with sEV from inductive tooth germ mesenchyme. We show that culture duration of inductive tooth germ mesenchyme has an impact on the proteome of sEV purified from these cells. Similarly, culturing these cells in 2D and 3D environments results in different protein content. Proteome unique to sEV derived from inductive shows an association with multiple signaling pathways related to tooth development. Our RNASeq results show that treatment of tooth germ epithelial cells with small extracellular vesicles derived from inductive tooth germ mesenchyme results in an increased expression of some of the known odontogenic genes. Whilst further analysis is required to harvest the full potential of these sEV, our results suggests that extracellular vehicles contribute to signals required during tooth development, potentially through modulation of cellular metabolism and ECM organization.
PXD058641	40001956	Integrated Omics Approaches to Explore a New System of Genetic Control of Dibenzothiophene Desulfurization and Aromatic Ring Cleavage by Gordonia alkanivorans Strain 135. 	Integrated omics approaches to explore a new system of genetic control of dibenzothiophene desulfurization in Gordonia alkanivorans strain 135 -- MS1	Dibenzothiophene, DirectMS1, G. alkanivorans 135, MS1-only	Dibenzothiophene (DBT) is a widespread environmental pollutant. The most common metabolic pathway for DBT degradation by Gordonia strains is the 4S pathway, which is under the control of the dsz operon. The ability to utilize DBT as the sole source of sulfur in Gordonia alkanivorans strain 135 has been revealed. The dsz operon was not detected in the genome of strain 135. In this work, using genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic data of strain 135, it was shown that an alternative pathway of DBT transformation is possible in non-dsz Gordonia; the sfnB and tauD genes and two acyl-dehydrogenase genes are significantly involved in the desulfurization process.
PXD060101	40002800	Precision in Tear Fluid Biomarker Discovery: Quantitative Proteomic Profiling of Small-Volume, Individual Samples Using Capillary Tube Collection. 	Precision in Tear Fluid Biomarker Discovery: Quantitative Proteomic Profiling of Small-Volume, Individual Samples Using Capillary Tube Collection	1. tear proteomics, 2. tear biomarker, 3. biomarker discovery, 4. capillary collection, 5. LC-MS/MS	Background: Tear fluid, rich in proteins, is a promising source of novel biomarkers for ocular and systemic health. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) is the primary method for biomarker discovery. Still, factors such as limited sample volume, extracellular protein contamination, and reflex tearing can significantly impact results. Glass microcapillary tubes minimize these issues. Schirmer strips remain the most common collection method due to existing LC-MS/MS protocol optimization. Methods: In this study, we evaluated multiple digestion protocols for the shotgun quantitative LC-MS/MS analysis of small-volume tear fluid samples collected using glass capillary tubes. Protocol optimization was performed using pooled samples and then compared with the analysis of individual samples. Results: Using the optimized protocol, one muL samples were processed using a timsTOF Pro 2 mass spectrometer (Bruker) coupled online with an Evosep One liquid chromatography system (Evosep), leading to the identification of an average of 361 +/- 63 proteins in pooled samples and 525 +/- 123 proteins in individual small-volume tear fluid samples. Conclusions: This protocol highlights the practicality of using glass capillary tubes for comprehensive LC-MS/MS-based tear proteomics analysis, paving the way for detailed proteomics characterization of individual tear fluid samples rather than pooled samples. By shifting from pooled to individual samples, this approach greatly accelerates tear biomarker discovery, advancing precision and personalized medicine.
PXD048616	40002966	The Surface Proteome of Bovine Unsexed and Sexed Spermatozoa. 	Analysis of protein extracts enriched in cell surface proteins from Bos taurus unsexed and sexed (X and Y) spermatozoa.	bovine, plasma membrane proteome, semen, sex-specific proteins, sperm sexing	Current sperm sexing methods are costly and largely restricted to cattle, while immunological techniques targeting sex-specific membrane proteins may offer more economical alternatives. To advance these methods, understanding the proteomic differences between the cell membranes of X- and Y-chromosome-bearing spermatozoa is essential. This study aimed to characterize the cell surface proteome of bovine sperm and identify potential targets for sperm sexing through LC-MS/MS analysis. Cell surface protein lysates were extracted from unsexed, X-sperm (BX), and Y-sperm (BY) samples via biotinylation. Promising targets were identified through functional annotation (UniProt, eggNOG-mapper v.2.1.7) and topology prediction (DeepTMHMM v.1.0.13). Additionally, statistical overrepresentation (PANTHER 18.0) and orthology analyses were performed. Excluding contaminants, 130 proteins were detected, of which 64 proteins were detected in the BX samples and not in the BY samples. Of these, five transmembrane proteins stood out as potential X-sperm targets (ADAM2, ATP11C, DG1, MCT1, and PMCA4). They were identified as potential cell surface targets, based on GO terms and topology predictions, detected in at least two replicates of the BX samples, and shown to share orthology with other livestock species. These findings enhance our understanding of bovine sperm proteomics; however, further validation is required to confirm the utility of these five proteins in sperm sexing technologies.
PXD059197	40004194	Identification of the B7-H3 Interaction Partners Using a Proximity Labeling Strategy. 	Identification of the B7-H3 Interaction Partners Using a Proximity Labeling Strategy	B7-H3, Protein-protein interaction, Proximity labeling	B7 homolog 3 (B7-H3) has emerged as a promising target for cancer therapy due to its high expression in various types of cancer cells. It not only regulates the activity of immune cells but also modulates the signal transduction and metabolism of cancer cells. However, the specific interaction partners of B7-H3 still remain unclear, limiting a comprehensive understanding of the precise role of B7-H3 in cancer progression. In this study, we report that B7-H3 can bind to resting Raji cells, stimulated THP-1 cells, and even PC3 prostate cancer cells through its IgV domain alone. Furthermore, to identify the potential interaction partners of B7-H3 on these cells, we adopted an ascorbate peroxidase 2 (APEX2)-based proximity labeling strategy, which revealed about 10 key potential interaction partners. Interestingly, our results suggest that CD45 could be a putative receptor for B7-H3 on Raji cells, while the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) could closely interact with B7-H3 on PC3 cells. Based on further computational structure modeling studies, we show that B7-H3 can bind to the epidermal growth factor (EGF) binding pocket of EGFR-surprisingly, with a stronger affinity than EGF itself. Overall, our study provides an effective approach to identifying B7-H3 interaction partners in both immune and cancer cell lines.
PXD054170	40004202	Distinct Urinary Proteome Changes Across Estimated Glomerular Filtration Rate Stages in a Cohort of Black South Africans. 	Proteomic analysis identifies dysregulated proteins in albuminuria: a South African pilot study	albuminuria, biomarker, chronic kidney disease, ne, urinary proteomics	Kidney function parameters including estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and urine albumin excretion are commonly used to diagnose chronic kidney disease (CKD). However, these parameters are relatively insensitive, limiting their utility for screening and early detection of kidney disease. Studies have suggested that urinary proteomic profiles differ by eGFR stage, offering potential insights into kidney disease pathogenesis alongside opportunities to increase the sensitivity of current testing strategies. In this study, we characterized and compared the urinary proteome across different eGFR stages in a Black African cohort from rural Mpumalanga Province, South Africa. We stratified 81 urine samples by eGFR stage (mL/min/1.73 m(2)): Stage G1 (eGFR >= 90; n = 36), Stage G2 (eGFR 60-89; n = 35), and Stage G3-G5 (eGFR < 60; n = 10). Urine proteomic analysis was performed using an Evosep One liquid chromatography system coupled to a Sciex 5600 TripleTOF in data-independent acquisition mode. Nonparametric multivariate analysis and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used to assess the performance of differentially abundant proteins (DAPs). Pathway analysis was performed on DAPs. Creatinine-based eGFR was calculated using the Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD-EPI) equation. In this study, thirty-eight urinary proteins were differentially abundant for eGFR Stages 3-5 when compared to Stages G1 (AUC = 0.95; CI: 0.86-1) and G2 (AUC = 0.84; CI: 0.64-0.98). Notably, only six urinary proteins (Cystatin M (CST6), glutathione hydrolase 6 (GGT6), sushi domain containing 2 (SUSD2), insulin-like growth factor binding protein 6 (IGFBP6), heat shock protein 90 beta family member 1 (HSP90B1), and mannosidase alpha class 1A member 1 (MAN1A1)) were differentially abundant when comparing Stage G1 and Stage G2 with a modest AUC = 0.81 (CI: 0.67-0.92). Pathway analysis indicated that DAPs were associated with haemostasis and fibrin clot formation. In a rural cohort from South Africa, the urinary proteome differed by eGFR stage, and we identified six differentially abundant proteins which, in combination, could help to differentiate earlier eGFR stages with higher predictive accuracy than the currently available tests.
PXD060392	40006055	Quantitative Proteomics and Molecular Mechanisms of Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma Mice Treated with Incomptine A, Part II. 	TMT-based Quantification LNH treated with incomptine A	LNH, balbc mice, incomptine A	Background/Objectives: Incomptine A (IA) has cytotoxic activity in non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) cancer cell lines. Its effects on U-937 cells include induction of apoptosis, production of reactive oxygen species, and inhibition of glycolytic enzymes. We examined the altered protein levels present in the lymph nodes of an in vivo mouse model. Methods: We induced an in vivo model with Balb/c mice with U-937 cells and treated it with IA or methotrexate, as well as healthy mice. We determined expressed proteins by TMT based on the LC-MS/MS method (Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD060392) and a molecular docking study targeting 15 deregulated proteins. We developed analyses through the KEGG, Reactome, and Gene Ontology databases. Results: A total of 2717 proteins from the axillary and inguinal lymph nodes were analyzed and compared with healthy mice. Of 412 differentially expressed proteins, 132 were overexpressed (FC >= 1.5) and 117 were underexpressed (FC <= 0.67). This altered expression was associated with 20 significantly enriched processes, including chromatin remodeling, transcription, translation, metabolic and energetic processes, oxidative phosphorylation, glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, cell proliferation, cytoskeletal organization, and with cell death with necroptosis. Conclusions: We confirmed the previously observed dose-dependent effect of IA as a secondary metabolite with important potential as an anticancer agent for the treatment of NHL, showing that the type of drug or the anatomical location influences the response to treatment. The IA promises to be a likely safer and more effective treatment to improve outcomes, reduce toxicities, and improve survival in patients with NHL, initially targeting histones and transcription factors that will affect cell death proteins.
PXD060338	40007440	Thermal proteome profiling and proteome analysis using high-definition mass spectrometry demonstrate modulation of cholesterol biosynthesis by next-generation galeterone analog VNPP433-3beta in castration-resistant prostate cancer. 	Thermal proteome profiling and proteome analysis using high-definition mass spectrometry demonstrate modulation of cholesterol biosynthesis by next-generation galeterone analog VNPP433-3beta in castration-resistant prostate cancer	CYP51A1, Next generation galeterone analog, cholesterol, lanosterol synthase, prostate cancer, thermal proteome profiling	Cholesterol (CHOL) homeostasis is significantly modulated in prostate cancer (PCa) suggesting an active role in PCa development and progression. Several studies indicate a strong correlation between elevated CHOL levels and increased PCa risk and severity. Inhibition of CHOL biosynthesis at different steps, including lanosterol synthase (LSS), has shown significant efficacy against both hormone-dependent and castration-resistant PCa. Earlier, we reported proteasomal degradation of androgen receptor (AR)/AR-Vs and Mnk1/2 as the primary mechanisms of action of VNPP433-3beta in inhibiting PCa cell proliferation and tumor growth. Through thermal proteome profiling, comparative proteomics and cellular thermal shift assay, we identified VNPP433-3beta's ancillary effect of lowering CHOL by binding to LSS and lanosterol 14-alpha demethylase, potentially inhibiting CHOL biosynthesis in PCa cells and tumors. Additionally, in conjunction with our previously reported transcriptome analysis, proteomics reveals that VNPP433-3beta modulated upstream regulators and pathways critical for PCa stem cell maintenance and recurrence. The inhibition of CHOL biosynthesis by VNPP433-3beta reinforces its multifaceted effects in PCa across all stages, highlighting its potential as a single-agent therapy. Achieving reduced CHOL levels aligns with better treatment outcomes, further substantiating VNPP433-3beta's therapeutic potential.
PXD060461	40009121	Assessing customized multivalent chemokine-binding peptide treatment in a murine model of coxsackievirus B3 myocarditis. 	Assessing Customized Multivalent Chemokine-Binding Peptide Treatment in a Murine Model of Coxsackievirus B3 Infection	Evasin, chemokines, coxsackievirus B3, infection, inflammation, liver metabolism	Myocarditis, an inflammatory disease of the heart muscle, is often triggered by viral infections. This inflammation, which can lead to severe cardiac dysfunction and adverse outcomes, is mediated by various CC and CXC chemokines that interact with receptors in a "one-to-many" fashion. Ticks have evolved chemokine-binding salivary proteins known as Evasins, which efficiently suppress inflammation. This study explores a tailored Evasin-derived CC chemokine-targeting strategy using a 17-mer synthetic dimeric peptide, BK1.3. This peptide inhibits the inflammatory chemokines CCL2, CCL3, CCL7, and CCL8 in murine Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3) infection, a viral trigger of myocarditis. Administered at a dose of 5 mg/kg twice daily, BK1.3 effectively maintains virus control without exacerbating CVB3-induced morbidity markers, such as hemodynamic compromise, multiorgan failure with hepatitis and pancreatitis, hypothermia, hypoglycemia, and weight loss. Metabolic profiling combined with proteomics reveals preserved reprogramming of lipid storage and gluconeogenesis capacity in the liver, alongside sustained energy production in the injured heart muscle. In survivors of acute CVB3 infection exhibiting manifestations of the subacute phase, BK1.3 enhances virus control, reduces myeloid cell infiltration in the heart and liver, improves markers of liver injury, and alleviates cardiac dysfunction, as evidenced by echocardiographic global longitudinal strain analysis. These findings affirm the safety profile of BK1.3 peptide therapeutics in a preclinical mouse model of acute CVB3 infection and emphasize its potential for therapeutic advancement in addressing virus-induced inflammation in the heart.
PXD053836	40009199	Occlusion of TCR binding to HLA-A*11:01 by a non-pathogenic human alloantibody. 	A TCR blocking HLA-A*11:01-specific human monoclonal antibody	Antibody, Cross-linking mass spectrometry, HLA, TCR	Over the last decades, organ transplantation has made rapid progress as a curative therapy for organ failure. However, the adaptive immune system-alloreactive T cells and antibodies targeting human leukocyte antigens (HLA)-is the leading cause of graft rejection. The presence of anti-donor HLA antibodies is considered a risk factor that disqualifies a particular donor-recipient pair. However, alloantibodies are found in some long-term graft survivors, suggesting a protective blocking function of some alloantibodies. Therefore, whether alloantibodies can have a positive as well as a negative effect in transplantation remains unclear. Here, HLA-A*11:01-specific monoclonal antibodies were generated from a human non-immune antibody library, and the effect of these antibodies was investigated on activation of A*11:01- specific T cells. We identified an A*11:01-specific monoclonal antibody with the capacity to block TCR recognition, TCR recruitment to the immune synapse, and T cell activation. The antibody reduced translocation of the transcription factor NFAT1 and phosphorylation of the MAP kinase ERK, which are both required for T cell effector function and TCR signal transduction. Cross-linking mass spectrometry was used to identify the epitope, demonstrating that this alloantibody can inhibit TCR from binding to the HLA molecule. These findings indicate that some HLA-specific alloantibodies can reduce T cell responses to the allograft. This has significant implications for interpretation of the existence of donor-specific antibodies, since some of them can protect the graft. Moreover, such antibodies may have therapeutic potential as specific treatments targeting mismatched donor HLA molecules.
PXD057548	40009677	DET1 dynamics underlie cooperative ubiquitination by CRL4(DET1-COP1) complexes. 	Analyzing Intrinsically Ordered and Disordered Regions of the DDD Complex	DDA1, DDB1, DET1, HDX-MS, Ube2e2	Transcription factor ubiquitination is a decisive regulator of growth and development. The DET1-DDB1-DDA1 (DDD) complex associates with the Cullin-4 ubiquitin ligase (CRL4) and a second ubiquitin ligase, COP1, to control ubiquitination of transcription factors involved in neurological, metabolic, and immune cell development. Here, we report the structure of the human DDD complex, revealing a specific segment of DET1 that can recruit ubiquitin-conjugating (E2) enzymes. Structural variability analysis, mass spectrometry, and mutagenesis based on AlphaFold predictions suggest that dynamic closure of DET1, stabilized by DDA1, underlies coordinated recruitment of E2 enzymes and COP1. Biochemical assays suggest that the E2 acts as a recruitment factor to bring COP1 to DET1 for more effective substrate ubiquitination, which parallels a catalytically inactive E2 enzyme (COP10) in plant DDD complexes. This work provides a clear architecture for regulation and cooperative CRL4(DET1-COP1) complex assembly, which can affect degradation of diverse targets by COP1 complexes.
PXD040793	40011425	The Drosophila epidermal growth factor receptor pathway regulates Hedgehog signalling and cytoneme behaviour. 	The Drosophila Epidermal growth factor receptor pathway regulates Hedgehog signalling and cytoneme behaviour.	EGFR, Hedgehog signalling, Ihog, cytonemes, development.	During Drosophila epithelial development, dynamic signalling filopodia (cytonemes) establish direct contacts between distant cells to facilitate the formation of the Hedgehog signalling gradient. However, not much is known about how cytonemes are regulated. In this study, we show that cytoneme dynamics and Hedgehog signalling in the Drosophila epithelia depend on the Epidermal Growth Factor pathway and on its downstream effector Ras1. We describe that EGFR/Ras1 pathway is required to maintain in the wing disc epithelium the basal plasma membrane levels of Interference Hedgehog (Ihog), a critical Hh co-receptor and adhesion protein. In addition, our data demonstrate that filamin A or Cheerio in Drosophila, responds to both Ihog and EGFR pathway and recruited to the basal site of the plasma membrane. This recruitment contributes to Ihog's role in stabilizing cytonemes.
PXD050964	40011444	Identification of antiviral RNAi regulators, ILF3/DHX9, recruit at ZIKV stem loop B to protect against ZIKV induced microcephaly. 	2022-0222-SK cell line infected by ZIKV(MR766,PRVABC.59)-1044	1044, MR766, PRVABC.59, SK cell line, ZIKV	Zika virus (ZIKV) is a member of the Flaviviridae family and causes congenital microcephaly and Guillain-Barre syndrome. Currently, there is a lack of approved vaccines or therapies against ZIKV infection. In this study, we profile vRNA-host protein interactomes at ZIKV stem-loop B (SLB) and reveal that interleukin enhancer binding factor 3 (ILF3) and DEAH-box helicase 9 (DHX9) form positive regulators of antiviral RNA inference in undifferentiated human neuroblastoma cells and induced pluripotent stem cell-derived human neural stem cells (iPSC-NSCs). Functionally, ablation of ILF3 in brain organoids and Nestin-Cre ILF3 cKO foetal mice significantly enhance ZIKV replication and aggravated ZIKV-induced microcephalic phenotypes. Mechanistically, ILF3/DHX9 enhance DICER processing of ZIKV vRNA-derived siRNAs (vsiR-1 and vsiR-2) to exert anti-flavivirus activity. VsiR-1 strongly inhibits ZIKV NS5 polymerase activity and RNA translation. Treatment with the vsiR-1 mimic inhibits ZIKV replication in vitro and in vivo and protected mice from ZIKV-induced microcephaly. Overall, we propose a novel therapeutic strategy to combat flavivirus infection.
PXD058147	40011782	Macrophages recycle phagocytosed bacteria to fuel immunometabolic responses. 	Proteomic analysis of ConcanamycinA-treated macrophages that have phagocytosed SILAC-bacteria	SILAC, innate immunity, macrophages, phagocytosis	Macrophages specialize in phagocytosis, a cellular process that eliminates extracellular matter, including microorganisms, through internalization and degradation(1,2). Despite the critical role of phagocytosis during bacterial infection, the fate of phagocytosed microbial cargo and its impact on the host cell are poorly understood. In this study, we show that ingested bacteria constitute an alternative nutrient source that skews immunometabolic host responses. By tracing stable isotope-labelled bacteria, we found that phagolysosomal degradation of bacteria provides carbon atoms and amino acids that are recycled into various metabolic pathways, including glutathione and itaconate biosynthesis, and satisfies the bioenergetic needs of macrophages. Metabolic recycling of microbially derived nutrients is regulated by the nutrient-sensing mechanistic target of rapamycin complex C1 and is intricately tied to microbial viability. Dead bacteria, as opposed to live bacteria, are enriched in cyclic adenosine monophosphate, sustain the cellular adenosine monophosphate pool and subsequently activate adenosine monophosphate protein kinase to inhibit the mechanistic target of rapamycin complex C1. Consequently, killed bacteria strongly fuel metabolic recycling and support macrophage survival but elicit decreased reactive oxygen species production and reduced interleukin-1beta secretion compared to viable bacteria. These results provide a new insight into the fate of engulfed microorganisms and highlight a microbial viability-associated metabolite that triggers host metabolic and immune responses. Our findings hold promise for shaping immunometabolic intervention for various immune-related pathologies.
PXD057521	40011918	Proteomic analysis reveals chromatin remodeling as a potential therapeutical target in neuroblastoma. 	Proteomic analysis reveals chromatin remodeling and RNA processing as potential therapeutical targets in Neuroblastoma	RNA processing, chromatin remodeling, neuroblastoma	BACKGROUND: Neuroblastoma (NB) is the most common solid tumor in children, characterized by high recurrence rates, drug resistance, and significant mortality. METHODS: In this study, we analyzed the proteomic profiles of NB tissue samples alongside other pathological categories, including ganglioneuroma (GN) and ganglioneuroblastoma (GNB). Using weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), the core prognostic gene models associated with histopathology of NB were identified. Furthermore, by mapping our core prognostic gene models onto drug-perturbed transcriptome profiles from the L1000FWD and CMap databases, repurposing drug candidates were screened and validated for NB. RESULTS: Our proteomic analysis reveals that pathways associated with the cell cycle and DNA replication are significantly upregulated in NB, while oxidative phosphorylation, pyruvate metabolism, and the TCA cycle are notably downregulated compared to GNB and GN. By applying WGCNA, we identified a core prognostic gene model strongly associated with the unfavorable subtype and high MKI of NB and primarily related to chromatin binding and mRNA metabolic process. Protein-protein interaction network analysis identified 15 hub genes in this core prognostic module: SMARCA4, SMARCA5, SMARCC2, SMARCC1, PBRM1, BRD3, ARID1A, BRD2, ARID1B, KDM1A, TP53BP1, ALYREF, CBX1, SF3B1, and ADNP, which mainly related to chromatin remodeling. Notably, SMARCA4 and ALYREF are also high-risk genes of mortality and validated as potential prognostic biomarkers for NB. Through repurposing drugs screening, mocetinostat and clofarabine were validated as effective treatments in two NB cell lines. CONCLUSION: Mocetinostat and clofarabine offer valuable insights for the development of novel targeted therapies in neuroblastoma.
PXD053016	40012043	Radiotherapy resistance driven by Asparagine endopeptidase through ATR pathway modulation in breast cancer. 	AEP targets HEK293 cells using specific inhibitor and TurboID approaches	HEK293, label-free	BACKGROUND: Tumor resistance represents a major challenge in the current oncology landscape. Asparagine endopeptidase (AEP) overexpression correlates with worse prognosis and reduced overall survival in most human solid tumors. However, the underlying mechanisms of the connection between AEP and reduced overall survival in cancer patients remain unclear. METHODS: High-throughput proteomics, cellular and molecular biology approaches and clinical data from breast cancer (BC) patients were used to identify novel, biologically relevant AEP targets. Immunoblotting and qPCR analyses were used to quantify protein and mRNA levels. Flow cytometry, confocal microscopy, chemical inhibitors, siRNA- and shRNA-silencing and DNA repair assays were used as functional assays. In-silico analyses using the TCGA BC dataset and immunofluorescence assays in an independent cohort of invasive ductal (ID) BC patients were used to validate the clinical relevance of our findings. RESULTS: Here we showed a dual role for AEP in genomic stability and radiotherapy resistance in BC patients by suppressing ATR and PPP1R10 levels. Reduced ATR and PPP1R10 levels were found in BC patients expressing high AEP levels and correlated with worst prognosis. Mechanistically, AEP suppresses ATR levels, reducing DNA damage-induced cell death, and PPP1R10 levels, promoting Chek1/P53 cell cycle checkpoint activation, allowing BC cells to efficiently repair DNA. Functional studies revealed AEP-deficiency results in genomic instability, increased DNA damage signaling, reduced Chek1/P53 activation, impaired DNA repair and cell death, with phosphatase inhibitors restoring the DNA damage response in AEP-deficient BC cells. Furthermore, AEP inhibition sensitized BC cells to the chemotherapeutic reagents cisplatin and etoposide. Immunofluorescence assays in an independent cohort of IDBC patients showed increased AEP levels in ductal cells. These analyses showed that higher AEP levels in radioresistant IDBC patients resulted in ATR nuclear eviction, revealing AEPhigh/ATRlow protein levels as an efficient predictive biomarker for the stratification of radioresistant patients. CONCLUSION: The newly identified AEP/ATR/PPP1R10 axis plays a dual role in genomic stability and radiotherapy resistance in BC. Our work provides new clues to the underlying mechanisms of tumor resistance and strong evidence validating the AEP/ATR axis as a novel predictive biomarker and therapeutic target for the stratification and treatment of radioresistant BC patients.
PXD049430	40013367	Longitudinal Proteomic Profiling of Cognition across an Aerobic Exercise Intervention. 	Proteomic and Metabolomic Profile of Cognitive Stability and Decline Over an Aerobic Exercise Intervention and 5-years later in Older Adults	Aging, Exercise, Metabolomics, Plasma	The physiological basis of cognitive decline remains largely uncharacterized. We identified a protein panel signature, in living humans, that correlates to improvement in neurocognition over a period of 5 years. Our signature is composed of complement proteins, coagulation cascade, and extracellular matrix regulators. In our cohort, SERPINF1 is associated with greater maximal oxygen uptake after an aerobic exercise intervention. Sleep quality is also a key factor in relation to inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor heavy chain H2, which was associated with greater sleep efficiency. Additionally, we validate that the coagulation profile of decliners' plasma contains procoagulant agonists, leading to greater platelet activation. ANN NEUROL 2025.
PXD043296	40013867	Host Plasma Microenvironment in Immunometabolically Impaired HIV Infection Leads to Dysregulated Monocyte Function and Synaptic Transmission Ex Vivo. 	Inflammatory microenvironment in immunometabolic-compromised treated HIV infection steered synaptic dysregulation	antiretroviral therapy, multi-omics	Risk stratification using multi-omics data deepens understanding of immunometabolism in successfully treated people with HIV (PWH) is inadequately explained. A personalized medicine approach integrating blood cell transcriptomics, plasma proteomics, and metabolomics is employed to identify the mechanisms of immunometabolic complications in prolonged treated PWH from the COCOMO cohort. Among the PWHs, 44% of PWH are at risk of experiencing immunometabolic complications identified using the network-based patient stratification method. Utilizing advanced machine learning techniques and a Bayesian classifier, five plasma protein biomarkers; Tubulin Folding Cofactor B (TBCB), Gamma-Glutamylcyclotransferase (GGCT), Taxilin Alpha (TXLNA), Pyridoxal Phosphate Binding Protein (PLPBP) and Large Tumor Suppressor Kinase 1 (LATS1) are identified as highly differentially abundant between healthy control (HC)-like and immunometabolically at-risk PWHs (all FDR<10(-10)). The personalized metabolic models predict metabolic perturbations, revealing disruptions in central carbon metabolic fluxes and host tryptophan metabolism in at-risk phenotype. Functional assays in primary cells and cortical forebrain organoids (FBOs) further validate this. Metabolic perturbations lead to persistent monocyte activation, thereby impairing their functions ex vivo. Furthermore, the chronic inflammatory plasma microenvironment contributes to synaptic dysregulation in FBOs. The endogenous plasma inflammatory microenvironment is responsible for chronic inflammation in treated immunometabolically complicated at-risk PWH who have a higher risk of cardiovascular and neuropsychiatric disorders.
PXD050720	40013955	Proteomic Analysis of Urinary Extracellular Vesicles from Patients with ADTKD-HNF1beta identifies roles for Cilia-related Proteins and Serpins. 	Proteomic Analysis of Urinary Extracellular Vesicles from Patients with ADTKD-HNF1beta identifies roles for cilia-related proteins and Serpins	ADPKD, ADTKD-HNF1B, CKD, Serpins, Urine, cilia, extracellular vesicles	Autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial kidney disease-subtype hepatocyte nuclear factor 1beta (ADTKD-HNF1beta) is caused by pathogenic variants in or deletions of the gene encoding transcription factor HNF1beta. Patients with the same mutation have variable renal and extrarenal phenotypes, including renal cysts, diabetes, and electrolyte disturbances. The aim of this exploratory study was to provide insight whether pathophysiological effects in the kidney of ADTKD-HNF1beta patients are visible by analysing their urinary extracellular vesicle (uEV) proteome. We isolated uEVs collected from patients with ADTKD-HNF1beta and included patients with ADPKD and patients with CKD as controls. Subsequent LC-MS/MS proteomics, and differential and pathway enrichment analyses were performed. Transcriptional targets of HNF1beta were selected with ChIP-sequencing to study changes in protein abundance due to loss of HNF1beta, and correlation analyses with clinical features were performed. We found differential enrichment of five proteins, enrichment of pathways involved in cilia and cell-cell adhesion, and depletion of several Serpins in patients with ADTKD-HNF1beta and ADPKD, compared to patients with CKD. We identified differential enrichment of nine HNF1beta transcriptional targets between patients with ADTKD-HNF1beta and patients with CKD, and we demonstrated that Serpin abundance negatively correlated with eGFR in patients with ADTKD-HNF1beta (R = -0.52). The uEV proteome of patients with ADTKD-HNF1beta shows an enrichment in proteins involved in renal cysts development, with resemblance to ADPKD. These changes provide new insight in the pathophysiology of ADTKD-HNF1beta. Their onset and association with cyst development and kidney function decline warrants further study.
PXD050598	40014793	Discovery of Key Candidate Protein Biomarkers in Early-Stage Nonsmall Cell Lung Carcinoma through Quantitative Proteomics. 	Proteomic Analysis of Aberrant Protein Expression in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC)	NSCLC, Philippines	Difficulties in early-stage diagnosis are among the factors contributing to the high mortality of nonsmall cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) patients. Unfortunately, diagnostic biomarkers are currently lacking, limiting options in the clinic. To discover proteins that have potential for biomarker applications, we performed an in-depth quantitative proteomic analysis on a cohort of Filipino early-stage NSCLC lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) patients. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were obtained by using tandem mass tag (TMT) labeling and mass spectrometry (MS)-based quantitative proteomics. A total of 6240 quantified proteins were identified with 3155 significantly upregulated and 1248 significantly downregulated. Integration of the proteomic result with curated transcriptome data allowed the identification of 33 proteins with biomarker potential. This study also provided insights into relevant pathways in NSCLC LUAD, such as protein translation and metabolic pathways. Interestingly, all of the enzymes in the hexosamine biosynthetic pathway (HBP) are found to be upregulated, suggesting its important role in NSCLC LUAD. It is worthwhile to look at the potential of targeting the metabolic vulnerability of NSCLC LUAD as a new strategy in drug development. All MS data were deposited into ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD050598.
PXD055810	40015257	Neutrophils Display Novel Partners of Cytosolic Proliferating Cell Nuclear Antigen Involved in Interferon Response in COVID-19 Patients. 	Neutrophils display novel cytosolic proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) partners involved in interferon response in COVID-19	COVID-19, Neutrophils, PCNA, interferon, neutrophils extracellular traps	INTRODUCTION: Neutrophils are key players in the hyperinflammatory response during SARS-CoV-2 infection. The cytosolic proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is a scaffolding protein highly dependent on the microenvironment status and known to interact with numerous proteins that regulate neutrophil functions. This study aimed to examine the cytosolic protein content and PCNA interactome in neutrophils from COVID-19 patients. METHODS: Proteomic analyses were performed on neutrophil cytosols from healthy donors and patients with severe or critical COVID-19. In vitro approaches were used to explore the biological significance of the COVID-19-specific PCNA interactome. RESULTS: Neutrophil cytosol analysis revealed a strong interferon (IFN) protein signature, with variations according to disease severity. Interactome analysis identified associations of PCNA with proteins involved in interferon signaling, cytoskeletal organization, and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation, such as protein arginine deiminase type-4 (PADI4) and histone H3, particularly in critical patients. Functional studies of interferon signaling showed that T2AA, a PCNA scaffold inhibitor, downregulated IFN-related genes, including STAT1, MX1, IFIT1, and IFIT2 in neutrophils. Additionally, T2AA specifically inhibited the secretion of CXCL10, an IFN-dependent cytokine. PCNA was also found to interact with key effector proteins implicated in NET formation, such as histone H3, especially in critical COVID-19 cases. CONCLUSION: The analysis of the PCNA interactome has unveiled new protein partners that enhance the interferon pathway, thereby modulating immune responses and contributing to hyperinflammation in COVID-19. These findings provide valuable insights into interferon dysregulation in other immune-related conditions. INTRODUCTION: Neutrophils are key players in the hyperinflammatory response during SARS-CoV-2 infection. The cytosolic proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA) is a scaffolding protein highly dependent on the microenvironment status and known to interact with numerous proteins that regulate neutrophil functions. This study aimed to examine the cytosolic protein content and PCNA interactome in neutrophils from COVID-19 patients. METHODS: Proteomic analyses were performed on neutrophil cytosols from healthy donors and patients with severe or critical COVID-19. In vitro approaches were used to explore the biological significance of the COVID-19-specific PCNA interactome. RESULTS: Neutrophil cytosol analysis revealed a strong interferon (IFN) protein signature, with variations according to disease severity. Interactome analysis identified associations of PCNA with proteins involved in interferon signaling, cytoskeletal organization, and neutrophil extracellular trap (NET) formation, such as protein arginine deiminase type-4 (PADI4) and histone H3, particularly in critical patients. Functional studies of interferon signaling showed that T2AA, a PCNA scaffold inhibitor, downregulated IFN-related genes, including STAT1, MX1, IFIT1, and IFIT2 in neutrophils. Additionally, T2AA specifically inhibited the secretion of CXCL10, an IFN-dependent cytokine. PCNA was also found to interact with key effector proteins implicated in NET formation, such as histone H3, especially in critical COVID-19 cases. CONCLUSION: The analysis of the PCNA interactome has unveiled new protein partners that enhance the interferon pathway, thereby modulating immune responses and contributing to hyperinflammation in COVID-19. These findings provide valuable insights into interferon dysregulation in other immune-related conditions.
PXD054070	40015273	A comprehensive Schizosaccharomyces pombe atlas of physical transcription factor interactions with proteins and chromatin. 	Large-scale interactome screen for predicted transcription factors in fission yeast using IP-MS.	IP-MS, LC-MS, MaxQuant, Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, einprot, fission yeast, protein interactions, pulldown, transcription factors	Transcription factors (TFs) are key regulators of gene expression, yet many of their targets and modes of action remain unknown. In Schizosaccharomyces pombe, one-third of TFs are solely homology predicted, with few experimentally validated. We created a comprehensive library of 89 endogenously tagged S. pombe TFs, mapping their protein and chromatin interactions using immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing. Our study identified protein interactors for half the TFs, with over a quarter potentially forming stable complexes. We discovered DNA-binding sites for most TFs across 2,027 unique genomic regions, revealing motifs for 38 TFs and uncovering a complex network of extensive TF cross- and autoregulation. Characterization of the largest TF family revealed conserved DNA sequence preferences but diverse binding patterns and identified a repressive heterodimer, Ntu1/Ntu2, linked to perinuclear gene localization. Our TFexplorer webtool makes all data interactively accessible, offering insights into TF interactions and regulatory mechanisms with broad biological relevance.
PXD056562	40015632	The molecular basis of immunosuppression by soluble CD52 is defined by interactions of N-linked and O-linked glycans with HMGB1 Box B. 	Recombinant CD52 Glycopeptide data	Glycopeptide, HEK293, N-glycan, O-glycan	Human soluble CD52 is a short glycopeptide comprising 12 amino acids (GQNDTSQTSSPS) which functions as an immune regulator by sequestering the pro-inflammatory high mobility group box protein 1 (HMGB1) and supressing immune responses. Recombinant CD52 has been shown to act as a broad anti-inflammatory agent, dampening both adaptive and innate immune responses. This short glycopeptide is heavily glycosylated, with a complex sialylated N-linked glycan at N3 and reported O-linked glycosylation possible on several serine and threonine residues. Previously we demonstrated that specific glycosylation features of CD52 are essential for its immunosuppressive function, with terminal alpha-2,3-linked sialic acids required for binding to the inhibitory SIGLEC-10 receptor leading to T-cell suppression. Using high resolution mass spectrometry, we have further characterised the N- and O-linked glycosylation of Expi293 recombinantly produced CD52 at a glycopeptide and released glycan level, accurately determining glycan heterogeneity of both N- and O-linked glycosylation, and localising the site of O-glycosylation to T8 with high confidence and direct spectral evidence. This detailed knowledge of CD52 glycosylation informed the construction of a model system, which we analysed by molecular dynamics simulations to understand the mechanism of recognition and define interactions between bioactive CD52, HMGB1 and the SIGLEC-10 receptor. Our results confirm the essential role of glycosylation, more specifically hyper-sialylation, in the function of CD52, and identify at the atomistic level specific interactions between CD52 glycans and the Box B domain of HMGB1 that determine recognition, and the stability of the CD52/HMGB1 complex. These insights will inform the development of synthetic CD52 as an immunotherapeutic agent.
PXD057122	40016190	Integrating fragment-based screening with targeted protein degradation and genetic rescue to explore eIF4E function. 	Proteome profiling followng targeting eIF4E	cancer, dTAG, eIF4E, lung, protein synthesis, siRNA	Eukaryotic initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) serves as a regulatory hub for oncogene-driven protein synthesis and is considered a promising anticancer target. Here we screen a fragment library against eIF4E and identify a ligand-binding site with previously unknown function. Follow-up structure-based design yields a low nM tool compound (4, Kd = 0.09 microM; LE 0.38), which disrupts the eIF4E:eIF4G interaction, inhibits translation in cell lysates, and demonstrates target engagement with eIF4E in intact cells (EC50 = 2 microM). By coupling targeted protein degradation with genetic rescue using eIF4E mutants, we show that disruption of both the canonical eIF4G and non-canonical binding sites is likely required to drive a strong cellular effect. This work highlights the power of fragment-based drug discovery to identify pockets in difficult-to-drug proteins and how this approach can be combined with genetic characterization and degrader technology to probe protein function in complex biological systems.
PXD056438	40017313	The INO80 Chromatin Remodeling Complex Regulates Histone H2A.Z Mobility and the G1-S Transition in Oligodendrocyte Precursors. 	The INO80 chromatin remodeling complex regulates histone H2A.Z mobility and the G1-S transition in oligodendrocyte precursors	Chromatin remodelling complex, H2A.Z, INO80, OLIG2, Oligodendrocytes	Chromatin remodeling complexes (CRCs) participate in oligodendrocyte (OL) differentiation, survival, and maintenance. We asked whether CRCs also control the proliferation of OL precursors (OPs)-focusing on the INO80 complex, which is known to regulate the proliferation of a variety of other cell types during development and disease. CRISPR/Cas9-mediated inactivation of Ino80 in vitro, or Cre-mediated deletion in vivo, slowed the OP cell cycle substantially by prolonging G1. RNAseq analysis revealed that E2F target genes were dysregulated in OPs from INO80-deficient mice, but correlated RNAseq and ATAC-seq uncovered no general correlation between gene expression and altered nucleosome positioning at transcription start sites. Fluorescence photobleaching experiments in cultured OPs demonstrated that histone H2A.Z mobility increased following the loss of INO80, suggesting that INO80 regulates the cell cycle machinery in OPs through H2A.Z/H2A exchange. We also present evidence that INO80 associates with OLIG2, a master regulator of OL development.
PXD055221	40017757	Decoding Protein Glycosylation by an Integrative Mass Spectrometry-Based De Novo Sequencing Strategy. 	Decoding protein glycosylation by an integrative mass spectrometry-based de novo sequencing strategy	glycoprotein, glycosylation characterization, protein de novo sequencing	Glycoproteins, representing more than 50% of human proteins and most biopharmaceuticals, are crucial for regulating various biological processes. The complexity of multiple glycosylation sites often leads to incomplete sequence coverage and ambiguous glycan modification profiles. Here, we developed an integrative mass spectrometry-based approach for decoding unknown glycoproteins, which is featured with the combination of deglycosylation-mediated de novo sequencing with glycosylation site characterization. We utilized the enzymatic deglycosylation of N-/ O-glycans to achieve comprehensive sequence coverage. Additionally, EThcD fragmentation enables the identification of high-quality long peptides, facilitating precise protein assembly. We subsequently applied this method to de novo sequencing of the highly glycosylated therapeutic fusion protein Etanercept (Enbrel). We also sequenced three new tumor necrosis factor receptor:Fc-fusion biologics with largely unknown sequences, unveiling subtle distinctions in the primary sequences. Furthermore, we characterized N- and O-glycosylation modifications of these proteins at subunit, glycopeptide, and glycan levels. This strategy bridges the gap between the de novo sequencing and glycosylation modification, providing comprehensive information on the primary structure and glycosylation modifications for glycoproteins. Notably, our method could be a robust solution for accurate sequencing of the glycoproteins and has practical value not only in basic research but also in the biopharmaceutical industry.
PXD060494	40018357	Urine complement analysis implies complement activation is involved in membranous nephropathy. 	Urine complement analysis implies complement activation is involved in membranous nephropathy	clinical remission., complement, histopathology, membranous nephropathy	Background: The onset and progression of membranous nephropathy (MN) have been associated with complement activation, yet the overall characteristics of this activation in the kidneys remain unclear. In our study, we utilized urine proteomic data to investigate the features of complement activation. We examined the relationship between urine complement components and both clinicopathological features and clinical outcomes in patients with MN. Methods: Differential expression proteins (DEPs) analysis was performed using proteomic data from urine samples collected from 50 patients with MN, 50 patients with IgA nephropathies (IgAN), and 72 healthy controls (HC). Then, Gene Ontology and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes analyses were carried out on the DEPs identified in MN. We further investigated the differentially expressed urinary complement proteins in MN patients, exploring their relationships with clinicopathological features and clinical remission. Next, 11 representative complements were selected for validation. Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence techniques were employed to compare the expression of CD59 and C5b-9 in renal tissues from MN patients, with analyses conducted on both the clinical remission group and the no remission group (n = 6 in each group). Results: Total 1,427 differentially expressed proteins were identified between the MN and HC groups. KEGG pathway analysis showed significant enrichment of these DEPs in the complement-activated pathway within the MN group. Additionally, a correlation was found between proteinuria and the levels of 27 urinary complement proteins. Notably, Collectin12 (collec12) and C1s were positively correlated with tubular atrophy/interstitial fibrosis (TIF) and monocyte infiltration. Furthermore, urine CD59 emerged as a predictor of clinical remission. Lower deposition of C5b-9 in renal tissue and higher expression of CD59 were detected in clinical remission group than non-remission group. Conclusion: In patients with MN, abnormal levels of complement components in urine are commonly observed. Currently, the use of complement inhibitors has brought new hope for the treatment of MN. The factor B inhibitor LNP023 and the factor D inhibitor BCX9930 are undergoing clinical trials for the treatment of MN. Our study indicates that complement abnormalities could serve as clinical biomarkers for tracking the progression of MN, predicting clinical remission, and guiding targeted complement therapy for those affected.
PXD058002	40020665	Antibiotic target discovery by integrated phenotypic and activity-based profiling of electrophilic fragments. 	Integrated Phenotypic and Activity-Based Profiling of Electrophilic Fragments Reveals New Targets for Antibiotics Development	FabH, MiaA, PdxY, Phenotypic screening, activity-based protein profiling, antibiotics, covalent inhibitor	The emergence of antibiotic resistance necessitates the discovery of novel bacterial targets and antimicrobial agents. Here, we present a bacterial target discovery framework that integrates phenotypic screening of cysteine-reactive fragments with competitive activity-based protein profiling to map and functionally characterize the targets of screening hits. Using this approach, we identify beta-ketoacyl-acyl carrier protein synthase III (FabH) and MiaA tRNA prenyltransferase as primary targets of a hit fragment, 10-F05, that confer bacterial stress resistance and virulence in Shigella flexneri. Mechanistic investigations elucidate that covalent C112 modification in FabH, an enzyme involved in bacterial fatty acid synthesis, results in its inactivation and consequent growth inhibition. We further demonstrate that irreversible C273 modification at the MiaA RNA-protein interaction interface abrogates substrate tRNA binding, attenuating resistance and virulence through decreased translational accuracy. Our findings underscore the efficacy of integrating phenotypic and activity-based profiling of electrophilic fragments to accelerate the identification and pharmacologic validation of new therapeutic targets.
PXD057386	40021485	Analysis of Stratifin Expression and Proteome Variation in a Rat Model of Acute Lung Injury. 	Proteomic analysis of lung tissues in an oleic acid (OA)-induced acute lung injury model rats	DIA, acute lung injury, diffuse alveolar damage, interstitial lung disease, lung, rat	Diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) is a pathological hallmark of severe interstitial lung diseases, such as acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), and is linked to poor prognosis. Previously, we identified 14-3-3sigma/stratifin (SFN) as a serum biomarker candidate for diagnosing DAD. To clarify the time-dependent relationship between SFN expression and DAD, we here investigated pathological and molecular changes in serum, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), and lung tissue in an oleic acid (OA)-induced ARDS rat model. Acute alveolar edema was observed after OA administration, followed by alveolar epithelial cell proliferation and increased BALF and serum SFN levels. Proteomic analysis of lung tissue extracts revealed that proteins related to "inflammatory response" and "HIF-1 signaling," including plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, were markedly increased 3 h after acute lung injury, followed by a gradual decrease. Conversely, proteins associated with "cell cycle" and "p53 pathway," including SFN, showed a persistent increase starting at 3 h and peaking at 48 h. Western blotting and immunohistochemistry confirmed that SFN was expressed in a part of proliferated alveolar type-II cells, accompanied by p53 activation, an important event for differentiation into type-I cells. SFN may be a biomarker closely related to alveolar remodeling during the repair process after lung injury.
PXD051011	40021668	Proteomic profile of human sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes in comparison to working myocardium. 	Proteomics of human cardiac conduction system	heart	The proteomic profile of the human cardiac conduction system: the sinoatrial node (SAN) and atrioventricular node (AVN), remains poorly understood. The aim of the current study is to identify proteomic characteristic of the human SAN and AVN in the comparison to working myocardium of the right atrium (RAM) and right ventricle (RVM). The proteomic analysis was performed on 10 autopsied human heart specimens collected from healthy adults. During the data-independent acquisition proteomics analysis 2752 different proteins were identified in all sample sets. In both nodal tissues (compared to working myocardium), the following pathways were upregulated: regulation of Insulin-like Growth Factor transport and uptake by Insulin-like Growth Factor Binding Proteins, post-translational protein phosphorylation, glutathione metabolism, metabolism of carbohydrates, glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. Other common for nodal tissue pathways were these related to immune system and related to extracellular matrix. The pathways related to cardiac muscle contraction were more abundant in RAM and RVM samples. The current study presents extensive comparative analysis of protein abundance in the human SAN and AVN. Few key differences may be found in the nodal proteome in comparison to working cardiomyocytes, including involvement of immune system and upregulated pathways related to extracellular matrix. The SAN exhibits enrichment in the PPAR signaling and pentose phosphate pathways, as well as prostaglandin synthesis and regulatory proteins, compared to the AVN.
PXD051659	40021717	Proteomic analyses reveal the key role of gene co-option in the evolution of the scaly-foot snail scleritome. 	Proteomic analyses reveal the key role of gene co-option in the evolution of Scaly-foot Snail scleritome	Chrysomallon, Gigantopelta, biomineralization, sclerite, shell	Biomineralization, a key driving force underlying dramatic morphological diversity, is widely adopted by metazoans to incorporate inorganic minerals into their organic matrices. The scaly-foot snail Chrysomallon squamiferum from deep-sea hot vents uniquely possesses hundreds of sclerites on its foot in addition to a coiled shell, providing an exclusive case to study the formation of evolutionarily novel hard parts. Here, we identified the matrix proteins present in the exoskeletons of C. squamiferum and Gigantopelta aegis, a confamilial species from the same vent habitat but lacking sclerites, to uncover the genes and proteins presumably involved in the sclerite formation processes. Comparative multi-omics analyses suggest that C. squamiferum co-opted a diverse range of metazoan biocalcifying proteins through sclerite formation in a possibly deep homology scenario, and the up-regulated biomineralization-related genes in the foot imply alternative sources of sclerite proteins. The sclerite-secreting epithelium employs and utilizes genes considerably older than those in the mantle, which supports the predominant contribution of co-option in C. squamiferum sclerite formation. Our results highlight the importance of gene co-option in shaping novel hard parts in C. squamiferum and indicate that lineage-specific gene incorporation is a possible key factor leading to the rapid evolution of a novel hard structure in this vent-endemic species.
PXD057405	40021897	The Trim32-DPEP2 axis is an inflammatory switch in macrophages during intestinal inflammation. 	Trim32-DPEP2 axis is an inflammatory switch of macrophages in intestinal inflammation	DPEP2, MAP3K7, Trim32, VIM, intestinal inflammation, macrophage	The mechanisms via which inflammatory macrophages mediate intestinal inflammation are not completely understood. Herein, using merged analysis of RNA sequencing and mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomics, we detected differences between proteomic and transcriptomic data in activated macrophages. Dipeptidase-2 (DPEP2), a member of the DPEP family, was highly expressed and then downregulated sharply at the protein level but not at the mRNA level in macrophages in response to inflammatory stimulation. Suppression of DPEP2 not only enhanced macrophage-mediated intestinal inflammation in vivo but also promoted the transduction of inflammatory pathways in macrophages in vitro. Mechanistically, overexpressed DPEP2 inhibited the transduction of inflammatory signals by resisting MAK3K7 in inactivated macrophages, whereas DPEP2 degradation by activated Trim32 resulted in strong activation of NF-kappaB and p38 MAPK signaling via the release of MAK3K7 in proinflammatory macrophages during the development of intestinal inflammation. The Trim32-DPEP2 axis accumulates the potential energy of inflammation in macrophages. These results identify DPEP2 as a key regulator of macrophage-mediated intestinal inflammation. Thus, the Trim32-DPEP2 axis may be a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of intestinal inflammation.
PXD059664	40021952	Characterization and chemoproteomic profiling of protein O-GlcNAcylation in SOD1-G93A mouse model. 	Characterization and chemoproteomic profiling of protein O-GlcNAcylation in SOD1-G93A mouse model	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc), SOD1-G93A mice	BACKGROUND: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating motor neuron disease. Protein O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) modification has been found to affect the processing of several important proteins implicated in ALS. However, the overall level and cellular localization of O-GlcNAc during ALS progression are incompletely understood, and large-scale profiling of O-GlcNAcylation sites in this context remains unexplored. METHODS: By using immunostaining analysis and chemoenzymatic labeling-based quantitative chemoproteomics, we assayed O-GlcNAcylation dynamics of lumbar spinal cords from SOD-G93A mice and their non-transgenic (NTG) littermates, the most widely used animal model for studying ALS pathogenesis. RESULTS: We discovered that the global O-GlcNAcylation was significantly reduced at the disease end stage. Correlatively, a great increase of OGA was observed. Immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence analysis showed a higher proportion of O-GlcNAc-positive neurons in the NTG group, while O-GlcNAc colocalization with astrocytes/microglia was elevated in SOD1-G93A mice. Moreover, we reported the identification of 568 high-confidence O-GlcNAc sites from end-stage SOD1-G93A and NTG mice. Of the 568 sites, 226-many of which occurred on neuronal function and structure-related proteins-were found to be dynamically regulated. CONCLUSION: These data provide a valuable resource for dissecting the functional role of O-GlcNAcylation in ALS and shed light on promising therapeutic avenues for ALS. The chemoenzymatic labeling-based chemoproteomic approach is applicable for probing O-GlcNAc dynamics in various pathological processes.
PXD052725	40022872	Quantitative serum proteomic analysis for biomarker discovery in post-COVID-19 postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (PC-POTS) patients. 	Quantitative serum proteomic analysis for potential biomarkers in post-COVID-19 onset Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome (PC-POTS) patients	Post-COVID-19 syndrome, Post-acute sequelae of COVID-19, Postural Orthostatic Tachycardia Syndrome, biomarker, long COVID syndrome, serum proteomics, tandem mass tag	Postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome (POTS) is a chronic, debilitating condition that is characterized by an excessive increase in heart rate upon orthostatic challenge. Before the COVID-19 pandemic, POTS affected 0.5 % to 1 % of the U.S. population. Since the pandemic, the incidence has risen sharply, adding an estimated 6-7 million new cases in the U.S. Despite its importance, there is currently no reliable biomarker for POTS, leading to significant diagnostic delays. A major hurdle in identifying biomarkers is the heterogeneous nature of the syndrome. To address this, we focused on a homogeneous subgroup of post-COVID-19 POTS (PC-POTS) patients. We conducted quantitative proteomics on sera from 9 PC-POTS patients and 9 healthy controls, identifying 31 proteins with significantly different abundances in PC-POTS patients. Most elevated proteins were linked to actin filaments or immune functions/inflammation. Weighted Gene Co-Expression Network Analysis revealed module 7 (M7) correlated strongly with PC-POTS diagnosis and related traits. The key proteins in M7 included MTPN, TAGLN2, ADP-ribosylation factor 1, PDLIM1, PPIA, CNN2, LGALSL, TXN, TLN1, TUBA4A, IL4, TREML1, GP1BA, and, all highly correlated with these traits. Cell-type enrichment analysis revealed that M7 was highly associated with immune and neuronal cells. The main pathways identified in M7 included the integrin signaling pathway, blood coagulation, and glycolysis. These findings suggest that the key proteins in M7 could serve as biomarkers for PC-POTS. This study uses quantitative proteomics to identify potential biomarkers that differentiate PC-POTS patients from healthy controls, establishing a foundation for further research and validation.
PXD040214	40023981	A multi-omics approach reveals impaired lipid metabolism and oxidative stress in a zebrafish model of Alexander disease. 	Multiomics approaches in Alexander disease zebrafish model show correlation between GFAP aggregation, altered lipid metabolism and oxidative stress	Alexander disease, Danio rerio, GFAP, p.R239C mutation, zebrafish	Alexander disease (AxD) is a rare leukodystrophy caused by heterozygous mutations in the GFAP gene. To date, several in vitro and in vivo models have been generated in an attempt to unravel the main mechanisms underlying this complex disease. However, none of these models is suitable for investigating the global dysregulation caused by AxD. To address this shortcoming, we have generated a stable transgenic zebrafish line (zAxD) carrying the human GFAP p.R239C mutation, which is associated with severe phenotypes of AxD type I patients. We then performed transcriptomics and proteomics analyses on the whole larvae of our zAxD model, confirming the involvement of several pathways such as the immune system response and inflammation, oxidative stress, extracellular matrix, lipoxidation and lipid metabolism, which were previously reported in more limited omic studies. Interestingly, new pathways emerged as well, including tyrosine and butanoate metabolic processes. Biochemical assays confirmed alterations in cell respiration and lipid metabolism as well as elevated oxidative stress. These findings confirm the reliability of the zAxD model to apply a whole-organism approach to investigate the molecular basis of the disease.
PXD041139	40024376	Proteomic analysis of human follicular fluid-derived exosomes reveals that insufficient folliculogenesis in aging women is associated with infertility. 	Proteomic analysis reveals insufficient folliculogenesis in Aging Female associates with infertility	Aging, Exosomes, Follicle maturation, in vitro fertilization	Although the risk of female infertility increases with advancing age, the underlying mechanisms remain unknown. Exosomes in follicular fluid are suggested to regulate folliculogenesis and influence oocyte quality, potentially playing a critical role in age-related infertility. Elucidating their content could enhance the understanding of the molecular mechanisms associated with female aging-induced infertility. In this study, we explored the proteomic profiles of exosomes derived from human follicular fluid to identify protein signatures associated with infertility in both young and aging women. Despite the lack of significant differences in the morphology and particle size of follicular fluid-derived exosomes between the two groups, proteomic analysis revealed a distinct pattern of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). DEPs associated with B-cell activation, pathogen invasion, and disrupted metabolic processes were significantly more highly expressed in the aging group than in the young group, indicating their involvement in age-related infertility. In vivo experiments demonstrated that the application of exosomes, particularly those derived from young female mice, facilitated the successful maturation of follicles. Key exosomal proteins, including ENO1, HSP90B1, fetuin-B, C7, and APOC4, were found to be associated with follicular maturation. Furthermore, the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway, which is known to be related to folliculogenesis, was activated by the application of exosomes in aging female mice. This study provides novel insights into the aging-associated protein signatures of follicular fluid-derived exosomes and their potential role in infertility. These findings suggest that aging-related protein signatures in exosomes could contribute to the treatment of age-related infertility.
PXD059728	40025024	In situ valence-transited arsenic nanosheets for multi-modal therapy of colorectal cancer. 	In situ valence-transited arsenic nanosheets for multi-modal therapy of colorectal cancer	arsenic valence transition, colorectal cancer treatment., in situ microenvironment response, multi-modal therapy	Late-stage and advanced colorectal cancer (CRC) often prove to be resistant to current treatment regimens, due to the evolving tumor microenvironment. Chemotherapy-dominated multi-modal therapeutic strategies based on the specific CRC microenvironment open a new horizon for eradicating colorectal tumors. Here, in situ valence-transited arsenic nanosheets are developed as a multi-modal therapeutic platform by responding to the H2S-enriched CRC microenvironment. Carrier-free pegylated nanosheets of pentavalent arsenic (As(V)), aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA), and copper ion (Cu(2+)) are innovatively self-assembled via coordination with high loading content and good stability. As(V) in pegylated arsenic nanosheets (CAA-PEG NSs) is rapidly released and reduced to trivalent arsenic (As(III)) to exert its chemotherapy in the local tumor. Furthermore, the immunosuppressive microenvironment is thoroughly remodeled via H2S depletion of As(V) to As(III) conversion and impairment of H2S production by AOAA. Additionally, the in situ produced ultrasmall CuS nanoparticles exhibit photothermal activity against CRC under the guidance of photoacoustic imaging. This multi-modal therapeutic strategy, dominated by chemotherapy, completely inhibits CRC progression and prevents its relapse.
PXD055444	40026899	Proteomic Analysis of the Effects of Shenzhu Tiaopi Granules on Model Rats with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus. 	Proteomic analysis of the effects of Shenzhu Tiaopi granules on model rats with type 2 diabetes mellitus	Fdps, Plin2, Shenzhu Tiaopi granule, improving hyperglycaemia, type 2 diabetes mellitus	Background: Shenzhu Tiaopi granule (STG) has antidiabetic functions. Data-independent acquisition proteomic technology is an integral part of systems biology. Herein, proteomics was used to analyse the effects of STG on type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and the mechanism by which STG normalizes glucose metabolism. Methods: Goto-Kakizaki (GK) T2DM model (Mod) rats, aged 15-16 weeks and with a fasting blood glucose (FBG) level of >=11.1 mmol/L, were treated with metformin or STG for 12 weeks. Wistar rats aged 15-16 weeks were included in the control (Con) group. Body weight, FBG, total cholesterol (TC), total triglyceride (TG) levels and low-density lipoprotein (LDL-C) levels were measured, and pathological observation, Western blot analysis and data-independent acquisition proteomics of the liver were performed. Results: Significant differences in FBG, TC, TG, LDL-C (p < 0.01) and pathological liver morphology were observed between the Mod group and Con group, whereas both metformin and STG normalized the glucose and lipid metabolism indicators (p < 0.05 or p < 0.01). In total, 5856 proteins were identified via proteomic analysis, 97 of which were significantly differentially expressed in the liver and affected fatty acid metabolism, unsaturated fatty acid biosynthesis, the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) signalling pathway, pyruvate metabolism, and terpenoid backbone biosynthesis. Screening identified 10 target proteins, including perilipin-2 (Plin2), pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase 4, farnesyl diphosphate synthase (Fdps) and farnesyl-diphosphate farnesyltransferase 1. Among these proteins, the key proteins were Plin2 and Fdps, which were found to be associated with the PPAR signalling pathway and terpenoid backbone biosynthesis via relationship networks. Plin2 and Fdps are closely related to hyperglycaemia. STG can downregulate Plin2 and upregulate Fdps (p < 0.01). Conclusion: STG ameliorated hyperglycaemia by significantly altering the expression of different proteins, especially Fdps and Plin2, in the livers of GK rats. These findings may reveal the potential of traditional Chinese medicine for treating T2DM.
PXD054243	40027450	Multi-omics unveils strain-specific neuroactive metabolite production linked to inflammation modulation by Bacteroides and their extracellular vesicles. 	Exploring exoproteome of 18 human Bacteroidetes strains from human GIT	Bacterial Exoproteome, LCMS	Bacteroides species are key members of the human gut microbiome and play crucial roles in gut ecology, metabolism, and host-microbe interactions. This study investigated the strain-specific production of neuroactive metabolites by 18 Bacteroidetes (12 Bacteroides, 4 Phocaeicola, and 2 Parabacteroides) using multi-omics approaches. Genomic analysis revealed a significant potential for producing GABA, tryptophan, tyrosine, and histidine metabolism-linked neuroactive compounds. Using untargeted and targeted metabolomics, we identified key neurotransmitter-related or precursor metabolites, including GABA, l-tryptophan, 5-HTP, normelatonin, kynurenic acid, l-tyrosine, and norepinephrine, in a strain- and media-specific manner, with GABA (1-2 mM) being the most abundant. Additionally, extracellular vesicles (EVs) produced by Bacteroides harbor multiple neuroactive metabolites, mainly GABA, and related key enzymes. We used CRISPR/Cas12a-based gene engineering to create a knockout mutant lacking the glutamate decarboxylase gene (gadB) to demonstrate the specific contribution of Bacteroides finegoldii-derived GABA in modulating intestinal homeostasis. Cell-free supernatants from wild-type (WT, GABA+) and DeltagadB (GABA-) provided GABA-independent reinforcement of epithelial membrane integrity in LPS-treated Caco-2/HT29-MTX co-cultures. EVs from WT and DeltagadB attenuated inflammatory immune response of LPS-treated RAW264.7 macrophages, with reduced pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-1beta and IL-6), downregulation of TNF-alpha, and upregulation of IL-10 and TGF-beta. GABA production by B. finegoldii had a limited impact on gut barrier integrity but a significant role in modulating inflammation. This study is the first to demonstrate the presence of a myriad of neuroactive metabolites produced by Bacteroides species in a strain- and media-specific manner in supernatant and EVs, with GABA being the most dominant metabolite and influencing immune responses.
PXD053775	40028051	Proteomic Characterization of Cardioprotective Human Acellular Amniotic Fluid. 	Proteomic Characterization of Cardioprotective Human Acellular Amniotic Fluid	Amniotic Fluid	Amniotic fluid-derived products are a promising resource for cell therapy and tissue engineering due to their anti-inflammatory, angiogenic, and antifibrotic properties. Human amniotic fluid (hAF) has been used in medical applications such as wound healing, skin disorders, and ophthalmic conditions. Recently, we demonstrated that hAF is an effective treatment for myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury in adult rats. However, the protein composition of full-term acellular hAF has remained poorly characterized. To uncover the biologically active components underlying hAF's cardioprotective effects, we conducted a global proteomic analysis of hAF collected from six patients at full-term cesarean sections. Previously shown to improve cardiac function in ischemic rats, these samples were analyzed by using tandem mass spectrometry. We identified 657 proteins, including 148 unique to the deep learning platform Inferys. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that these proteins are involved in immunity, inflammatory responses, cell adhesion, and apoptotic signaling pathways. In addition, these proteins were highly modified, with methylation and deamidation being the most abundant modifications. This study represents the first mass-spectrometry-based characterization of full-term, acellular hAF, suggesting that hAF offers a wide array of immune-modulating proteins working together to provide robust cardioprotection and a valuable treatment for ischemia-reperfusion injury.
PXD054295	40028673	Secretomes From Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Cells Induce Endothelial Plasticity Through a Partial Endothelial-to-Mesenchymal Transition. 	Secretomes from non-small cell lung cancer cells induce endothelial plasticity through a partial endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition	DIA-PASEF, EMT, lung cancer, non-small cell, secretome	AIM: The tumor microenvironment (TME) of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is highly heterogeneous and is involved in tumorigenesis and resistance to therapy. Among the cells of the TME, endothelial cells are associated with the latter processes through endothelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EndMT). During EndMT, endothelial cells (ECs) progressively lose their endothelial phenotype in favor of a mesenchymal phenotype, which favors the production of cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs). Our study aimed to investigate the consequences of exposure to different lung tumor secretomes on EC phenotype and plasticity. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Conditioned media (CM) were prepared from the tumor cell lines A549, H1755, H23, H1437, and H1975. Proliferation and migration of ECs treated with these CMs were assessed by Cyquant and Incucyte technologies, respectively. The angiogenic capacity of ECs was assessed by following tubulogenesis on Matrigel. Phenotypic changes in treated ECs were detected by flow cytometry. Morphological analysis of actin fibers was performed by immunohistochemistry, while proteomic analysis by mass spectrometry was used to identify the protein content of secretomes. RESULTS: A change of the endothelial phenotype was found when human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) were treated with different CMs. This phenotypic change was associated with a morphological change, an increase in both stress fiber expression and spontaneous migration. Furthermore, an increase in mesenchymal markers (alpha-SMA and CD44) confirmed the phenotypic changes. However, the secretomes did not modify the rate of double-labeled cells (vWF(+)/alpha-SMA(+) or CD31(+)/CD44(+)). Proteomic analysis identified potential targets involved in the EndMT with therapeutic relevance. CONCLUSION: Taken together, these data suggest that CMs can induce partial EndMT.
PXD055918	40032158	Apolipoprotein A-IV is induced by high-fat diets and mediates positive effects on glucose and lipid metabolism. 	Apolipoprotein A-IV is induced by high-fat diets and mediates positive effects on glucose and lipid metabolism	APOA4, liver	BACKGROUND: Low-carbohydrate, high-fat diets under eucaloric conditions are associated with several health-beneficial metabolic effects in humans, particularly in the liver. We recently observed that apolipoprotein A-IV (apoA-IV), a highly abundant apolipoprotein, was among the most upregulated proteins in circulation after six weeks of consuming a high-fat diet in humans. However, the impact of dietary changes in regulating apoA-IV, and the potential effects of apoA-IV on regulation of glucose- and lipid metabolism remain to be fully established. RESULTS: We demonstrate that in healthy human individuals high-fat intake increased fasting plasma apoA-IV concentrations by up to 54%, while high-carbohydrate intake suppressed plasma apoA-IV concentrations. In mice, administration of apoA-IV acutely lowered blood glucose levels both in lean and obese mice. Interestingly, this was related to a dual mechanism, involving both inhibition of hepatic glucose production and increased glucose uptake into white and brown adipose tissues. In addition to an effect on hepatic glucose production, the apoA-IV-induced liver proteome revealed increased capacity for lipoprotein clearance. The effects of apoA-IV in the liver and adipose tissues were concomitant with increased whole-body fatty acid oxidation. Upon glucose stimulation, an improvement in glucose tolerance by apoA-IV administration was related to potentiation of glucose-induced insulin secretion, while apoA-IV inhibited glucagon secretion ex vivo in islets. CONCLUSION: We find that apoA-IV is potently increased by intake of fat in humans, and that several beneficial metabolic effects, previously associated with high fat intake in humans, are mimicked by administration of apoA-IV protein to mice.
PXD060912	40032835	Proximity proteomics reveals a mechanism of fatty acid transfer at lipid droplet-mitochondria- endoplasmic reticulum contact sites. 	Proximity proteomics reveals a mechanism of fatty acid transfer at lipid droplet-mitochondria- endoplasmic reticulum contact sites	cell metabolism, fatty acid, lipid droplet, lipid metabolism, lipidomics, lipotoxicity, mitochondria	Membrane contact sites between organelles are critical for the transfer of biomolecules. Lipid droplets store fatty acids and form contacts with mitochondria, which regulate fatty acid oxidation and adenosine triphosphate production. Protein compartmentalization at lipid droplet-mitochondria contact sites and their effects on biological processes are poorly described. Using proximity-dependent biotinylation methods, we identify 71 proteins at lipid droplet-mitochondria contact sites, including a multimeric complex containing extended synaptotagmin (ESYT) 1, ESYT2, and VAMP Associated Protein B and C (VAPB). High resolution imaging confirms localization of this complex at the interface of lipid droplet-mitochondria-endoplasmic reticulum where it likely transfers fatty acids to enable beta-oxidation. Deletion of ESYT1, ESYT2 or VAPB limits lipid droplet-derived fatty acid oxidation, resulting in depletion of tricarboxylic acid cycle metabolites, remodeling of the cellular lipidome, and induction of lipotoxic stress. These findings were recapitulated in Esyt1 and Esyt2 deficient mice. Our study uncovers a fundamental mechanism that is required for lipid droplet-derived fatty acid oxidation and cellular lipid homeostasis, with implications for metabolic diseases and survival.
PXD058230	40032858	Beclin 1 of megakaryocytic lineage cells is locally dispensable for platelet hemostasis but functions distally in bone homeostasis. 	Beclin 1 of megakaryocytic lineage cells is locally dispensable for platelet hemostasis but functions distally in bone homeostasis	Beclin1, bone homeostasis	The crosstalk between megakaryocytic lineage cells and the skeletal system has just begun to be explored but remains largely elusive. Using conditional gene knockout mouse models, we demonstrated that loss of Beclin 1 (Becn1), a major regulator of mammalian autophagy, exclusively in the megakaryocytic lineage disrupted autophagy in platelets but did not compromise megakaryopoiesis or the formation and function of platelets. Unexpectedly, conditional Becn1 deletion in male mice led to a remarkable increase in bone mass with improved bone quality, in association with a decrease in sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG) and an increase in free testosterone (FT). In vivo Becn1 overexpression in megakaryocytic lineage-specific cells reduced bone mass and quality, along with an increase in SHBG and a decrease in FT. Transplantation of wild-type bone marrow cells into megakaryocytic lineage Becn1-deficient male mice restored bone mass and normalized SHBG and FT. Furthermore, bilateral orchiectomy of Becn1(f/f);Pf4-iCre mice, which are crippled with the production of testosterone, resulted in a reduction in bone mass and quality, whereas in vivo overexpression of SHBG, specifically in the liver of Becn1(f/f);Pf4-iCre mice, decreased FT and reduced bone mass and quality. In addition, metformin treatment, which induces SHBG expression, reduced FT and normalized bone mass in Becn1(f/f);Pf4-iCre mice. We thus concluded that Becn1 of the megakaryocytic lineage is dispensable locally for platelet hemostasis but limits bone mass by increasing SHBG, which in turn reduces the FT of male mice. Our findings highlight a mechanism by which Becn1 from megakaryocytic lineage cells distally balances bone growth.
PXD055614	40032982	Nematode serine protease inhibitor SPI-I8 negatively regulates host NF-kappaB signalling by hijacking MKRN1-mediated polyubiquitination of RACK1. 	Proteins of sheep abomasum that interact with Hc-SPI-I8	Haemonchus contortus, IP-MS, host-parasite interplay, protein-protein interaction	Parasitic roundworms are remarkable for their ability to manipulate host immune systems and ameliorate inflammatory diseases. Although much is known about the nature of nematode effectors in immune modulation, little is known about the action mode of these molecules. Here, we report that a serine protease inhibitor SPI-I8 in the extracellular vesicles of blood-feeding nematodes like Ancylostoma ceylanicum, Haemonchus contortus and Nippostrongylus brasiliensis, effectively halts excessive inflammatory responses in vitro and in vivo. We demonstrate that H. contortus SPI-I8 promotes the role of a negative regulator of RACK1 and enhances the effects of RACK1 on tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha-IkappaB kinases (IKKs)-nuclear factor kappa beta (NF-kappaB) axis in mammalian cells, by hijacking E3 ubiquitin protein ligase MKRN1-mediated polyubiquitination of RACK1. Administration of recombinant N. brasiliensis SPI-I8 effectively protects mice from dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced colitis and lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced sepsis. Considering the structural and functional conservation of SPI-I8s among Strongylida nematodes and the conservation of interactive mediators (i.e., MKRN1 and RACK1) among mammals, our findings provide insights into the host-parasite interface where parasitic roundworms secret molecules to suppress host inflammatory responses. Harnessing these findings should underpin the exploitation of nematode's immunomodulators to relief excessive inflammation associated diseases in animals and humans.
PXD046184	40033006	Regulation of mammalian cellular metabolism by endogenous cyanide production. 	Endogenously produced cyanide supports bioenergetics and exerts cytoprotective effects in mammals_HepG2 cells treated with 10mM Glycine, Glycine/Serine free medium or untreated	Cyanilation, Cysteine modification	Small, gaseous molecules such as nitric oxide, carbon monoxide and hydrogen sulfide are produced as signalling molecules in mammalian cells. Here, we show that low concentrations of cyanide are generated endogenously in various mammalian tissues and cells. We detect cyanide in several cellular compartments of human cells and in various tissues and the blood of mice. Cyanide production is stimulated by glycine, occurs at the low pH of lysosomes and requires peroxidase activity. When generated at a specific rate, cyanide exerts stimulatory effects on mitochondrial bioenergetics, cell metabolism and cell proliferation, but impairs cellular bioenergetics at high concentrations. Cyanide can modify cysteine residues via protein S-cyanylation, which is detectable basally in cells and mice, and increases in response to glycine. Low-dose cyanide supplementation exhibits cytoprotective effects in hypoxia and reoxygenation models in vitro and in vivo. Conversely, pathologically elevated cyanide production in nonketotic hyperglycinaemia is detrimental to cells. Our findings indicate that cyanide should be considered part of the same group of endogenous mammalian regulatory gasotransmitters as nitric oxide, carbon monoxide and hydrogen sulfide.
PXD056529	40033163	Proteomic Profiling of Extracellular Vesicles Reveals Potential Biomarkers for Helicobacter pylori Infection and Gastric Cancer. 	The quantitative proteomic analysis of extracellular vesicles derived from gastric cell line infected with Helicobacter pylori Tx30a, TN2wt strains, and non-infection	Helicobacter pylori, extracellular vesicle, gastric cancer	BACKGROUND: Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) has been identified as a type I carcinogen and contributes to a high rate of gastric cancer (GC), especially in Eastern Asia. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) have the potential to be used to detect various cancer types and diseases. However, the protein markers in EVs for the prognosis of H. pylori infection and GC are unknown. We aim to identify the proteins within EVs derived from a gastric epithelial cell line (AGS) infected with H. pylori by using LC-MS/MS. MATERIALS AND METHODS: EVs were isolated from AGS cells infected with high- and low-virulence H. pylori (strains TN2wt and Tx30a) by ultracentrifugation. Proteins within these EVs were identified and analyzed for potential marker candidates through bioinformatics. Proteins in H. pylori-derived EVs (HpEVs) from bacterial culture supernatant and HpEVs derived from H. pylori-infected AGS cells were elucidated. RESULTS: Differentially expressed proteins by proteomic analysis in AGSEVs-Tx30a vs. AGSEVs-noninfected (NI) and AGSEVs-TN2wt vs. AGSEVs-NI were 107 and 55 proteins, respectively. Bioinformatics of these proteomes revealed that essential proteins for H. pylori survival and pathogenicity including outer membrane proteins, metabolism-related, host cell infection-related, and virulence-related proteins were observed in HpEVs. Interestingly, EVs derived from AGS cells infected with H. pylori TN2wt significantly contained multiple proteins related to GC (ATP6V0A1, GAPDH, HINT1, LYZ, and RBX1). CONCLUSION: This study provides a comprehensive protein profile of EVs from H. pylori-infected AGS cells and HpEVs, which could serve as liquid-based biomarkers in the future for screening H. pylori infection, especially GC-related.
PXD032154	40033384	Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation of HXK1 alters energy metabolism and KATP channel function in the atrium from patients with atrial fibrillation. 	Human atrial tissue modification of Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation	2-hydroxyisobutyrylation, Post-translational modification	BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common form of arrhythmia and is a growing clinical problem. Post-translational modifications (PTMs) constitute crucial epigenetic mechanisms but modification of lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib) in AF is still unknown. This study aimed to investigate the role and mechanism of Khib in AF. METHODS: PTM proteomics was applied in the human atrial tissue from AF and sinus rhythm patients with heart valve disease during cardiac surgery to identify the Khib sites. The functional changes of differential modification sites were further validated at the cellular level. Cellular electrophysiology was performed to record the ion channel current and action potential duration (APD). RESULTS: The modification of 124 Khib sites in 35 proteins and 67 sites in 48 proteins exhibited significant increase or decrease in AF compared to sinus rhythm. Ten Khib sites were included in energy metabolism-related signaling pathways (HXK1, TPIS, PGM1, and ODPX in glycolysis; MDHC and IDH3A in tricarboxylic acid cycle; NDUS2, ETFB, ADT3, and ATPB in oxidative respiratory chain). Importantly, decreased HXK1 K418hib regulated by HDAC2 attenuated the original chemical binding domain between HXK1 and glucose, inhibited the binding ability between HXK1 and glucose, and reduced catalytic ability of the enzyme, resulting in low production of glucose-6-phosphate and ATP. Further, it also increased Kir6.2 protein and the current of KATP channel, and decreased APD. CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the importance of Khib to catalysis of HXK1 and reveals molecular mechanisms of HXK1 K418hib in AF, providing new insight into strategies of AF.
PXD049207	40033788	Fiber Type-Specific Proteomic Alterations in R349P Desminopathy Mice. 	Fiber type-specific proteomic alterations in R349P desminopathy mice	Fiber types, desmin, myofibrillar myopathy	INTRODUCTION/AIMS: Desminopathies are a group of rare human myopathies and cardiomyopathies caused by pathogenic variants of the desmin gene. Here, we analyzed the effects of the R349P mutant desmin on the proteomic profiles of individual fiber types of murine skeletal muscle. METHODS: Soleus and tibialis anterior muscles from hetero- and homozygous R349P desmin knock-in mice and wild-type siblings were used to collect fiber type-specific material by laser microdissection to determine their proteomic profiles. RESULTS: Aberrant proteomic profiles were observed in all four fiber types of homozygous mice. Type I and IIa fibers from homozygous muscle showed an increased abundance of 15 fibrotic proteins, for example, collagens I, IV, and VI, and associated proteins. Filamin-C, xin actin-binding repeat-containing proteins 1 and 2, and Kelch-like protein 41 were more abundant in homozygous fibers. A high number of proteins associated with the mitochondrial complexes had markedly lower amounts in all types of homozygous and type IIb heterozygous fibers, whereby 20 proteins of complex I, 6 proteins of complex III, 7 proteins of complex IV, and 4 proteins of complex V were found to be decreased in homozygous mice in at least one fiber type. This reduction included all mtDNA-encoded proteins of complexes I and V, as well as ADP/ATP translocase 1 and 2. DISCUSSION: Our proteomic findings highlight a more severe myodegenerative process in fibers derived from homozygous R349P desmin knock-in mice. R349P desmin altered the abundance of proteins of the sarcomeric and extrasarcomeric cytoskeleton, extracellular matrix, and mitochondrial energy metabolism.
PXD052120	40034248	Proteomic analysis of carotid artery plaques with and without vulnerable features on magnetic resonance angiography with vessel wall imaging: a pilot study. 	Proteomic Analysis of Carotid Artery Plaques With and Without Vulnerable Features on Magnetic Resonance Angiography with Vessel Wall Imaging: A Pilot Study	Human carotid plaques, LCM/FFPE	Objective: Extracranial carotid artery pathology accounts for 15% to 20% of ischemic strokes. Advancements in magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) with vessel wall imaging (VWI) have enabled the identification of vulnerable plaques, aiding in risk stratification for neurovascular events. This pilot study aimed to identify proteins in plaques with and without vulnerable features on MRA with VWI. Methods: Consecutive patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy were included in the study cohort with preoperative MRA with VWI. A retrospective chart review was conducted to extract pertinent clinical data including cardiovascular risk factors and medications. Proteomic analysis involved Tandem Mass Tag (TMTpro) labeling of peptides, basic pH high-performance liquid chromatography fractionation, and NanoLC-tandem mass spectrometry. Results: Proteomic analysis revealed 23 proteins significantly elevated in vulnerable plaques, including Proteinase 3 (PRTN3), Phospholipid Transfer Protein (PLTP), and S100 Calcium-Binding Protein A12 (S100A12), with increased abundance exceeding two-fold changes or above (P < .001). Conversely, three proteins exhibited reduced abundance in vulnerable plaques including Dynamin-3 (DNM3), Transmembrane Protein 181 (TMEM181), and Adducin-3 (ADD3) (P < .05). Conclusions: This study contributes to the understanding of protein biomarkers associated with carotid plaque vulnerability, offering insights into disease progression and stroke prevention. Proteins secreted by vulnerable plaques may offer not only the potential for early disease recognition; but can also become a target for future pharmacologic therapy prior to a devastating neurologic event. Further validation studies and multi-center trials will be needed to confirm the value of these potential biomarkers.
PXD048078	40035845	Comprehensive ubiquitome analysis reveals persistent mitochondrial remodeling disruptions from doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in aged CD-1 male mice. 	Ubiquitome profiling uncovers disturbed mitochondrial remodeling as an outcome of doxorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity in old mice	anticancer therapy, cardio-oncology, chronic cardiotoxicity, mitochondrial dynamics, old, ubiquitination	Doxorubicin (DOX)-associated cardiotoxicity is characterized by long-term manifestations, whose mechanisms remain incompletely understood, and is exacerbated by various risk factors, with age being a prominent contributor. The objective of this study was to assess the enduring cardiac molecular impacts of DOX in old CD-1 male mice, focusing on ubiquitinated proteins. At 19 months of age, DOX group received a cumulative dose of 9.0 mg/kg of DOX, while control animals got saline solution. Animals were sacrificed 2 months after the administration. DOX induced heart structural changes and increased proteolytic activity. Additionally, increased protein ubiquitination was observed in DOX group, despite the decreased content of the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase Atrogin-1. A search of poly-ubiquitinated proteins, enriched by tandem ubiquitin-binding entities (TUBEs), showed increased poly-ubiquitination of proteins associated with sarcomere organization and mitochondrial metabolism processes by DOX. Increased mitochondrial density inferred by higher citrate synthase activity was found in DOX group. Moreover, decreased biogenesis and auto(mito)phagy occurred in DOX animals, proven by decreased peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1 alpha, Beclin1 and microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 content. These findings indicate a reduction in mitochondrial biogenesis and accumulation of dysfunctional mitochondria in the aged heart, along with elevated levels of poly-ubiquitinated proteins after DOX treatment. Thus, the disruption of mitochondrial remodeling and impaired protein ubiquitination emerge as enduring consequences of DOX-induced cardiotoxicity, persisting for even 2 months after DOX exposure. This underscores the long-lasting impact of DOX, with significant effects continuing beyond the period of administration, which advocates for longer clinical surveillance.
PXD051099	40035983	Proteomic profiling of the serological response to a chemically-inactivated nodavirus vaccine in European sea bass Dicentrarchus labrax. 	Molecular changes in the serum proteome of the European sea bass Dicentrarchus labrax in response to nodavirus vaccine.	fish, serum, vaccine, virus	The analysis of animal responses to immunization is fundamental to vaccine development, enabling the evaluation of immune responses and the elucidation of key mechanisms underlying protective immunity. Such insights are essential for advancing vaccines through clinical trial stages and regulatory approval. Furthermore, understanding the molecular signatures of approved vaccines not only deepens our knowledge of their function but also guides the rational design and improvement of future vaccines. This study aims to elucidate alterations in protein abundance patterns in the sera of European sea bass, D. labrax, following immunization with a chemically-inactivated nodavirus vaccine. The shotgun proteome comparison revealed that in vaccinated animals, compared to controls, there is a modulation of the redox balance favouring reactive oxygen species (ROS), an intricate interaction between coagulation and the immune system resulting in the lower abundance of hematopoiesis-related FLT3, and indications of functional adaptive immunity demonstrated by the lower abundance of pentraxin fusion protein-like and the over-representation of myosins. To the best of our knowledge, this study represents the inaugural investigation of the immune response in fish using a proteomics approach, employing D. labrax as the host and nodavirus as the pathogen used for vaccination and challenge.
PXD047057	40036072	Repair of Isoaspartyl Residues by PCMT1 and Kidney Fibrosis. 	Repairing of isoaspartyl residues by PCMT1 alleviates renal fibrosis through the repression of TGF-beta1/TGFBR2/Smad signaling pathway	PCMT1, TGF-beta1-Smad pathway, TGFBR2, extracellular matrix, isoaspartyl residues, renal fibrosis	BACKGROUND: Kidney fibrosis, the excessive accumulation and dysregulated remodeling of the extracellular matrix, is the principal pathophysiological process in chronic kidney disease (CKD). Protein L-isoaspartyl/D-aspartyl methyltransferase (PCMT1) is crucial in repairing post-translational modifications of L-isoaspartyl residues, which are important for extracellular matrix proteins because of their low turnover rate and susceptibility to accelerating factors. This study aimed to reveal a novel role of PCMT1 in kidney fibrosis. METHODS: Kidney tissues from mice and humans were evaluated for PCMT1 expression and its association with fibrosis and kidney function. PCMT1's effects on the TGF-beta1/Smad signaling were analyzed, and its functional role was assessed in tubule-specific Pcmt1 knockout murine models of kidney fibrosis. The ability of secreted PCMT1 to repair L-isoaspartyl residues on the ectodomain of transforming growth factor beta receptor 2 (TGFBR2) was investigated through immunoprecipitation, gene lentivirus overexpression or knockout, and post-translational modification mass spectrometry. RESULTS: PCMT1 expression was decreased in the tubules of human kidney biopsies from patients with CKD and murine fibrosis models. Renal tubule-specific PCMT1 deficiency in murine kidney fibrosis models worsened tubular injury, extracellular matrix protein deposition, myofibroblast activation, and TGF-beta1/Smad signaling overactivation. Mechanistically, PCMT1 was unconventionally secreted and enzymatically inhibited TGF-beta1-induced extracellular matrix protein deposition in vitro. PCMT1 interacted with TGFBR2, reversing N63 deamination on its ectodomain, which triggered TGFBR2 ubiquitination and degradation. PCMT1 supplementation in kidneys decreased TGFBR2 levels, attenuated TGF-beta1/Smad overactivation, and impeded the profibrotic process. CONCLUSIONS: Our study highlights the importance of PCMT1 in maintaining extracellular matrix homeostasis and mitigating kidney fibrosis by regulating TGFBR2 deamination and its protein stability, suppressing the TGF-beta1/Smad signaling.
PXD057353	40036136	Proteomics and Metabolomics Analyses Reveal a Dynamic Landscape of Coal Workers' Pneumoconiosis: An Insight into Disease Progression. 	Human bronchoalveolar lavage fluid LC-MSMS	bronchoalveolar lavage fluid	Coal worker's pneumoconiosis (CWP) is characterized by chronic inflammation and pulmonary fibrosis. The key factor contributing to the incurability of CWP is the unclear pathogenesis. This study explored the characteristic changes in proteomics and metabolomics of early and advanced CWP patients through proteomics and metabolomics techniques. Proteomics identified proteins that change with the progression of CWP, with significant enrichment in the TGF-beta signaling pathway and autoimmune disease pathways. Metabolomics revealed the metabolic characteristics of CWP at different stages. These metabolites mainly include changes in amino acid metabolism, unsaturated fatty acid synthesis, and related metabolites. Integrated analysis found that ABC transporters are a shared pathway among the three groups, and ABCD2 is involved in the ABC transporter pathway. In the subsequent independent sample verification analysis, consistent with proteomics experiments, compared to the CM group, FMOD expression level was upregulated in the NIC group. TFR expression level was consistently downregulated in both the IC and NIC groups. Additionally, ABCD2 increased in the IC group but decreased in the NIC group. In summary, this study revealed the metabolic characteristics of CWP at different stages. These findings may provide valuable insights for the early prediction, diagnosis, and treatment of CWP.
PXD058348	40036572	Intact Glycopeptide Analysis of Human Prostate Tissue Reveals Site-Specific Heterogeneity of Protein Glycosylation in Prostate Cancer. 	Intact Glycopeptide Analysis of Human Prostate Tissue Reveals Site-Specific Heterogeneity of Protein Glycosylation in Prostate Cancer	Heterogeneity, N-linked, Prostate Cancer, glycopeptides, glycosylation	Approximately 300,000 American men were diagnosed with prostate cancer in 2024. Existing screening approaches based on measuring levels of prostate-specific antigen in the blood lack specificity for prostate cancer. Studying the glycans attached to proteins has the potential to generate new biomarker candidates and/or increase the specificity of existing protein biomarkers, and studying protein glycosylation changes in prostate cancer could also add new information to our understanding of prostate cancer biology. Here, we present the analysis of N-glycoproteins in clinical prostate cancer tissue and patient-matched, non-cancerous adjacent tissue using LC-MS/MS-based intact N-linked glycopeptide analysis. This analysis allowed us to characterize protein N-linked glycosylation changes in prostate cancer at the glycoprotein, glycopeptide, and glycosite levels. Overall, 1894 unique N-glycosites on 7022 unique N-glycopeptides from 1354 unique glycoproteins were identified. Importantly, we observed an overall increase in glycoprotein, glycopeptide, and glycosite counts in prostate cancer tissue than non-cancerous tissue. We identified biological functions enriched in prostate cancer that relate to cancer development. Additionally, we characterized N-glycosite-specific changes in prostate cancer, demonstrating significant meta- and micro-heterogeneity in N-glycan composition in prostate cancer in comparison to non-cancerous tissue. Our findings support the idea that protein glycosylation is heavily impacted and aberrant in prostate cancer and provide examples of N-glycosite-specific changes that could be exploited for more specific markers of prostate cancer.
PXD056374	40036685	Plasma IgG Glycosylation Profiling Reveals the Biological Features of Early Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease. 	Plasma IgG glycosylation profiling reveals the biological features of early COPD	COPD, IgG, chronic inflammation, glycosylation	Chronic inflammatory and immune dysregulation are critical drivers of the development and progression of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Posttranslational modifications, such as glycosylation of Immunoglobulin G (IgG), are crucial in modulating systemic inflammatory homeostasis. This study aims to profile plasma IgG glycopeptides (IgGPs) in COPD patients to uncover new insights into their pathogenesis and to identify novel biomarkers. An integrated platform that combines Fe3O4@PDA@DETA nanospheres enrichment with high-resolution mass spectrometry measurement was employed to analyze plasma IgG N-glycopeptides from 90 COPD patients, 45 clinically defined early COPD (CECOPD) patients, and 90 healthy individuals. To explore the underlying mechanism of COPD progression, correlations between IgG N-glycoforms and clinical parameters were assessed. Disease-specific IgGPs were identified in both the ECOPD and COPD cohorts. Notably, it was the IgG glycopattern, rather than the IgG levels themselves, that underwent changes as the disease progressed. In early COPD patients, there was a decrease in bisection, accompanied by an increase in site-specific afucosylated galactosylation and fucosylation of IgG, indicating an anti-inflammatory state. Conversely, in COPD patients, an increase in inflammation was observed, which was characterized by reduced galactosylation and sialylation. Interestingly, a subset of healthy controls displayed IgGP patterns similar to those of early COPD, possibly reflecting the impact of smoking and the associated immune responses. We finally identified 6 anti-inflammatory and 2 pro-inflammatory IgGPs as ECOPD-specific IgGP indicators. Collectively, these findings suggest that plasma IgG glycosylation holds great potential as a biomarker for early COPD diagnosis, providing valuable insights into the immune system changes during disease progression. The raw data files are publicly accessible via the ProteomeXchange Consortium with the identifier PXD056374.
PXD046745	40037362	Hepatic stellate cells regulate liver fatty acid utilization via plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein. 	Plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein in hepatic stellate cells is a central regulator of hepatic fatty acid utilization	Fatty liver, NEFA, stellate cells	The liver is essential for normal fatty acid utilization during fasting. Circulating fatty acids are taken up by hepatocytes and esterified as triacylglycerols for either oxidative metabolization and ketogenesis or export. Whereas the regulation of fatty acid oxidation in hepatocytes is well understood, the uptake and retention of non-esterified fatty acids by hepatocytes is not. Here, we show that murine hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and their abundantly expressed plasmalemma vesicle-associated protein (PLVAP) control hepatic substrate preference for fasting energy metabolism. HSC-specific ablation of PLVAP in mice elevated hepatic insulin signaling and improved glucose tolerance. Fasted HSC PLVAP knockout mice showed suppressed hepatic fatty acid esterification into di- and triacylglycerols, shifting fasting metabolism from fatty acid oxidation to reliance on carbohydrates. By super-resolution microscopy, we localized HSC PLVAP to caveolae residing along the sinusoidal lumen, supporting a role for HSCs and PLVAP-diaphragmed caveolae in normal fasting metabolism of the liver.
PXD052753	40037377	Tethering ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase to photosystem I promotes photosynthetic cyclic electron transfer. 	Comparative quantitative proteomic analysis of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii cells from wild-type and chimeric FNR-PSAF mutant cells	CET, CRISPR-Cas9, Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Chloroplast, Cyclic electron transfer, Ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase, LET, Linear electron transfer, PSI subunit PSAF, Photosystem (PS)	Fixing CO2 via photosynthesis requires ATP and NADPH, which can be generated through linear electron transfer (LET). However, depending on the environmental conditions, additional ATP may be required to fix CO2, which can be generated by cyclic electron transfer (CET). How the balance between LET and CET is determined remains largely unknown. Ferredoxin-NADP+ reductase (FNR) may act as the switch between LET and CET, channelling photosynthetic electrons to LET when it is bound to photosystem I (PSI) or to CET when it is bound to cytochrome b6f. The essential role of FNR in LET precludes the use of a direct gene knock-out to test this hypothesis. Nevertheless, we circumvented this problem using clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)/CRISPR-associated nuclease 9 (Cas9)-mediated gene editing in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Through this approach, we created a chimeric form of FNR tethered to PSI via PSAF. Chimeric FNR mutants exhibited impaired photosynthetic growth and LET along with enhanced PSI acceptor side limitation relative to the wild type due to slower NADPH reduction. However, the chimeric FNR mutants also showed enhanced DeltapH production and NPQ resulting from increased CET. Overall, our results suggest that rather than promoting LET, tethering FNR to PSI promotes CET at the expense of LET and CO2 fixation.
PXD059580	40037713	A transcription factor from the cryptic Escherichia coli Rac prophage controls both phage and host operons. 	A transcription factor from the cryptic Escherichia coli Rac prophage controls both phage and host operons	DDA, Escherichia coli, Rac prophage TF, putative transcription factors, ydaT locus	Bacterial genomes are shaped by cryptic prophages, which are viral genomes integrated into the bacterial chromosome. Escherichia coli genomes have 10 prophages on average. Though usually inactive, prophage genes can profoundly impact host cell physiology. Among the phage genes in the E. coli chromosome, there are several putative transcription factors (TFs). These prophage TFs are predicted to control only phage promoters; however, their regulatory functions are not well characterized. The cohabitation of prophages and bacteria has led to conditions under which the majority of prophage genes are unexpressed, at least under normal growth conditions. We characterized a Rac prophage TF, YdaT, expression of which is normally inhibited by Rac TFs and, surprisingly, by the host global regulator OxyR. YdaT, when expressed, leads to a toxic phenotype manifested by drastic cell filamentation and cell death. We determined the binding sites and regulatory action for YdaT, finding two sites within the Rac locus, and one upstream of the host rcsA gene, which codes for the global regulator RcsA. The resulting increase in RcsA strongly impacts the bacterial RcsA/B regulon, which includes operons related to motility, capsule biosynthesis, colanic acid production, biofilm formation, and cell division. Our results provide novel insights into the host's genetic network, which appears to integrate YdaT in a complex manner, favoring its maintenance in the silenced state. The fact that the potentially toxic YdaT locus remains unmutated suggests its importance and potential benefits for the host, which may appear under stress conditions that are not yet known.
PXD059954	40038267	Methionine metabolite spermidine inhibits tumor pyroptosis by enhancing MYO6-mediated endocytosis. 	The analysis of GSDME-NT binding proteins in the presence or absence of methionine	HONE1 cells	The connection between amino acid metabolism and pyroptosis remains elusive. Herein, we screen the effect of individual amino acid on pyroptosis and identify that methionine inhibits GSDME-mediated pyroptosis. Mechanistic analyses unveil that MYO6, a unique actin-based motor protein, bridges the GSDME N-terminus (GSDME-NT) and the endocytic adaptor AP2, mediating endolysosomal degradation of GSDME-NT. This degradation is increased by the methionine-derived metabolite spermidine noncanonically by direct binding to MYO6, which enhances MYO6 selectivity for GSDME-NT. Moreover, combination targeted therapies using dietary or pharmacological inhibition in methionine-to-spermidine metabolism in the tumor promotes pyroptosis and anti-tumor immunity, leading to a stronger tumor-suppressive effect in in vivo models. Clinically, higher levels of tumor spermidine and expression of methionine-to-spermidine metabolism-related gene signature predict poorer survival. Conclusively, our research identifies an unrecognized mechanism of pyroptotic resistance mediated by methionine-spermidine metabolic axis, providing a fresh angle for cancer treatment.
PXD041703	40038279	Integration of multi-omics data accelerates molecular analysis of common wheat traits. 	A proteomic atlas of the common wheat	Function, Fusarium crown rot, common wheat, post-translational modifications, proteomic atlas	Integration of multi-omics data can provide information on biomolecules from different layers to illustrate the complex biology systematically. Here, we build a multi-omics atlas containing 132,570 transcripts, 44,473 proteins, 19,970 phosphoproteins, and 12,427 acetylproteins across wheat vegetative and reproductive phases. Using this atlas, we elucidate transcriptional regulation network, contributions of post-translational modification (PTM) and transcript level to protein abundance, and biased homoeolog expression and PTM in wheat. The genes/proteins related to wheat development and disease resistance are systematically analyzed, thus identifying phosphorylation and/or acetylation modifications for the seed proteins controlling wheat grain quality and the disease resistance-related genes. Lastly, a unique protein module TaHDA9-TaP5CS1, specifying de-acetylation of TaP5CS1 by TaHDA9, is discovered, which regulates wheat resistance to Fusarium crown rot via increasing proline content. Our atlas holds great promise for fast-tracking molecular biology and breeding studies in wheat and related crops.
PXD052573	40038284	Functional optic tract rewiring via subtype- and target-specific axonal regeneration and presynaptic activity enhancement. 	Functional Optic Tract Rewiring via Subtype- and Target-specific Axonal Regeneration and Presynaptic Activity Enhancement	axon regeneration, olivary pretectal nucleus, optic tract	Mechanisms underlying functional axonal rewiring after adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS) injuries remain unclear partially due to limited models. Here we develop a mouse intracranial pre-olivary pretectal nucleus (OPN) optic tract injury model and demonstrate that Pten/Socs3 knockout and CNTF expression in retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) promotes optic tract regeneration and OPN reinnervation. Revealed by transmission electron microscopy, trans-synaptic labeling, and electrophysiology, functional synapses are formed in OPN mainly by intrinsically photosensitive RGCs, thereby partially restoring the pupillary light reflex (PLR). Moreover, combining with Lipin1 knockdown accelerates the recovery and achieves functional reconnection after chronic injury. PLR can be further boosted by increasing RGC photosensitivity with melanopsin overexpression, and it can also be enhanced by treatment of a voltage-gated calcium channel modulator to augment presynaptic release. These findings highlight the importance of neuronal types and presynaptic activity for functional reconnection after CNS injuries.
PXD061113	40038650	Longitudinal multi-omics analysis of convalescent individuals with respiratory sequelae 6-36 months after COVID-19. 	Longitudinal multi-omics analysis of convalescent individuals with respiratory sequelae 6-36 months after COVID-19	Long COVID-19, convalescence, metabolic, respiratory sequelae	BACKGROUND: Approximately 10-30% of individuals continue to experience symptoms classified as post-acute sequelae of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19 (PASC)). PASC is a multisystem condition primarily characterized by respiratory symptoms, such as reduced diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLco). Although many studies have investigated the pathogenesis of acute COVID-19, the long-term molecular changes in COVID-19 convalescents with PASC remain poorly understood. METHODS: We prospectively recruited 70 individuals who had been diagnosed with COVID-19 from 7 January 2020 to 29 May 2020 (i.e., COVID-19 convalescents); we performed follow-up visits at 6 months, 1 year, 2 years, and 3 years after hospital discharge. Thirty-five healthy controls (CONs), recruited from a physical examination center before the COVID-19 pandemic, served as a comparison group. We explored the proteomic and metabolomic profiles of 174 plasma samples from the 70 COVID-19 convalescents and 35 CONs. RESULTS: We performed a comprehensive molecular analysis of COVID-19 convalescents to investigate host changes up to 3 years after hospital discharge. Our multi-omics analysis revealed activation of cytoskeletal organization and glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, as well as suppression of gas transport and adaptive immune responses, in COVID-19 convalescents. Additionally, metabolites involved in glutathione metabolism; alanine, aspartate, and glutamate metabolism; and ascorbate and aldarate metabolism were significantly upregulated in COVID-19 convalescents. Pulmonary and molecular abnormalities persisted for 3 years in COVID-19 convalescents; impaired diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLco) was the most prominent feature. We used this multi-omics profile to develop a model involving one protein (heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (HNRNPK)) and two metabolites (arachidonoyl-EA and 1-O-(2r-hydroxy-pentadecyl)-sn-glycerol)) for identification of COVID-19 convalescents with abnormal DLco. CONCLUSIONS: These data provide insights concerning molecular sequelae among COVID-19 convalescents up to 3 years after hospital discharge, clarify mechanisms driving respiratory sequelae, and support the development of a novel model to predict reduced DLco. This longitudinal multi-omics analysis may illuminate the trajectory of altered lung function in COVID-19 convalescents.
PXD054348	40038668	The proteomic landscape of trophoblasts unravels calcium-dependent syncytialization processes and beta-chorionic gonadotropin (beta-hCG) production. 	Proteome profiling of trophoblasts reveals calcium involvement in syncytialisation and hormone production	calcium, hormone synthesis, placenta, syncytialisation, trophoblast	BACKGROUND: The syncytiotrophoblast (STB) layer of the placenta is formed by cell fusion of cytotrophoblasts, acts as a feto-maternal barrier, is required for the production of pregnancy hormones such as chorionic gonadotropin, estradiol and progesterone and is also responsible for feto-maternal mineral exchange such as calcium. Adequate mineral supply and placental hormone production are essential for the maintenance of pregnancy, and disturbances in trophoblast integrity are associated with pregnancy complications. Since knowledge about the identity and expression levels of proteins in trophoblast and syncytiotrophoblast cells is limited so far, we analyzed the proteomes of trophoblast-like and syncytiotrophoblast-like BeWo cells under different calcium conditions. The investigation of protein expression profiles in combination with hormone assays can provide a better understanding of calcium-dependent cellular processes in trophoblasts and syncytiotrophoblasts. METHODS: Here, we combine human trophoblast model cell cultures, hormone assays, antibody-based detection methods and high-resolution mass spectrometry analyzes to assess changes in cellular processes during syncytialization. RESULTS: We monitored the changes in protein expression profiles during forskolin induced syncytialization of trophoblast-like cells in an unbiased manner and show that the expression of numerous proteins is strongly altered. Among them are enzymes of the glucocorticoid and sex hormones synthesis pathways such as cytochrome P450 (CYP) 19A1, CYP11A1, adrenodoxin (FDX1), hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSD) 11beta2 and HSD17beta1, whose expression is strongly induced by syncytialization. The production of beta human chorionic gonadotropin (beta-hCG), progesterone and estradiol increase during syncytialization, while the secretion and synthesis of beta-hCG and the expression of several protein syncytiotrophoblast markers show a clear calcium dependence. CONCLUSION: The broad applicability of semi-quantitative proteome profiling of cytotrophoblast- and syncytiotrophoblast-like cells provides new insights into signaling processes that occur in cytotrophoblasts /syncytiotrophoblasts during pregnancy.
PXD059467	40038824	Clonorchis sinensis excretory/secretory proteins ameliorate inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis. 	Clonorchis sinensis-Excretory/Secretory Proteins ameliorates Inflammation in Rheumatoid Arthritis and Ankylosing Spondylitis	Clonorchis sinensis, Excretory/Secretory protein (ESP)	BACKGROUND: We aimed to investigate whether substances secreted by Clonorchis sinensis excretory/secretory protein (CS-ESP) have an effect on the inflammation of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and ankylosing spondylitis (AS) and to identify specific peptides through related proteomic analysis to determine which proteins exhibit anti-inflammatory effects more specifically. METHODS: Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) were obtained from healthy controls (HCs), RA and AS patients. Cytotoxicity of CS-ESP at different doses was assessed by MTS and flow cytometry before performing experiments. Inflammatory cytokine producing cells were analyzed using flow cytometry. To determine the effect of CS-ESP in an arthritis mouse model, 8-week-old SKG mice were injected intraperitoneally with curdlan and treated with CS-ESP; body weight and paw swelling were checked twice a week. Inflammation was evaluated using immunohistochemistry. We conducted proteomic analysis on CS-ESP and identified specific Cs-GT and Cs-Severin proteins. In vitro effect of coculture with Cs-GT and Cs-Severin was determined by inflammatory cytokine measurements. RESULT: Treatment with CS-ESP resulted in no reduced cell viability of PBMCs. In experiments culturing PBMCs, the frequencies of IL-17A and GM-CSF producing cells were significantly reduced after CS-ESP treatment. In the SKG mouse model, CS-ESP treatment significantly suppressed clinical score, arthritis and enthesitis. Treatment with Cs-GT and Cs-Severin resulted in no reduced cell viability of HC PBMCs. After Cs-GT and Cs-Severin treatment of HC PBMC, the frequencies of IL-17A and GM-CSF producing cells were significantly reduced. CONCLUSIONS: We provide evidence showing that CS-ESP, Cs-GT and Cs-Severin can ameliorate clinical signs and cytokine derangements in AS.
PXD049401	40040501	Changes in importin levels promote nuclear proteasomal degradation of cell cycle-related proteins during THP-1 monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation. 	Nuclear and total proteins in THP-1 cell differentiation	LFQ, THP-1, macrophage, monocyte, nuclear protein	Importin family nucleocytoplasmic transport receptors share thousands of cargo proteins. To elucidate cell regulatory mechanisms via transport regulation, we analyzed the levels of transport receptors by western blotting and quantified the total cellular and nuclear proteins during monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation of THP-1 cells using mass spectrometry. Importin-alpha1 decreased and importin-alpha5 increased during the differentiation. Cell cycle-related proteins decreased in both whole cells and nuclei, and proteasome-related proteins increased in the nuclei but not in whole cells. During the differentiation with importin-alpha1 overexpression, the nuclear levels of some cell division-related proteins recovered, and with importin-alpha5 knockdown, proteasome assembly factors decreased in the nuclei. In this differentiation, transport receptors reduce unnecessary nuclear proteins by abating import and promoting nuclear proteasomal degradation. This study demonstrates the importance of global nuclear transport control in cell regulation.
PXD051319	40040502	High-resolution proteomic analysis of medulloblastoma clinical samples identifies therapy resistant subgroups and MYC immunohistochemistry as a powerful outcome predictor. 	High-resolution proteomic analysis of medulloblastoma clinical samples identifies therapy resistant subgroups and MYC immunohistochemistry as a powerful outcome predictor	DIA, MYC, immunohistochemistry, medulloblastoma	BACKGROUND: While international consensus and the 2021 WHO classification recognize multiple molecular medulloblastoma subgroups, these are difficult to identify in clinical practice utilizing routine approaches. As a result, biology-driven risk stratification and therapy assignment for medulloblastoma remains a major clinical challenge. Here, we report mass spectrometry-based analysis of clinical samples for medulloblastoma subgroup discovery, highlighting a MYC-driven prognostic signature and MYC immunohistochemistry (IHC) as a clinically tractable method for improved risk stratification. METHODS: We analyzed 56 formalin fixed paraffin embedded (FFPE) medulloblastoma samples by data independent acquisition mass spectrometry identifying a MYC proteome signature in therapy resistant Group 3 medulloblastoma. We validated MYC IHC prognostic and predictive value across two Group 3/4 medulloblastoma clinical cohorts (n=362) treated with standard therapies. RESULTS: After exclusion of WNT tumors, MYC IHC was an independent predictor of therapy resistance and death [HRs 23.6 and 3.23; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.04-536.18 and 1.84-5.66; P = .047 and < .001]. Notably, only ~50% of the MYC IHC positive tumors harbored MYC amplification. Accordingly, cross-validated survival models incorporating MYC IHC outperformed current risk stratification schemes including MYC amplification, and reclassified ~20% of patients into a more appropriate very high-risk category. CONCLUSION: This study provides a high-resolution proteomic dataset that can be used as a reference for future biomarker discovery. Biology-driven clinical trials should consider MYC IHC status in their design. Integration of MYC IHC in classification algorithms for non-WNT tumors could be rapidly adopted on a global scale, independently of advanced but technically challenging molecular profiling techniques.
PXD059206	40042066	Targeting the Galectin-7/TRPM2/Zn(2+)/DRP-1 Signaling Pathway: A Potential Therapeutic Intervention in the Pathogenesis of SJS/TEN. 	Targeting the Galectin-7/TRPM2/Zn2+/DRP-1 Signaling Pathway: A Potential Therapeutic Intervention in the Pathogenesis of SJS/TEN	Galectin-7, TRPM2, apoptosis, mitochondria	BACKGROUND: Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) represent a spectrum of severe drug-induced cutaneous reactions. These conditions are characterized by widespread and confluent keratinocyte apoptosis, which differentiates them from erythema multiforme (EM). Mounting evidence has implicated the mitochondrial-dependent apoptosis pathway in the pathogenesis of SJS/TEN, but the potential roles and specific mechanisms of these pathways in SJS/TEN remain largely unexplored. METHODS: Proteomic analyses were conducted to investigate differential protein expression in blister fluid (BF)-derived exosomes from suction surgery in healthy individuals (Con Exo) or patients with EM (EM Exo) or SJS/TEN (TEN Exo). Further analysis involved glutathione S-transferase (GST) pull-down assay, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis, and validation of MS results through proximity ligation assay (PLA) and coimmunoprecipitation (co-IP). Phenotypic and mechanistic analyses were performed using immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), western blotting, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), co-IP, CCK-8 assay, adenosine triphosphate (ATP) level measurements, and flow cytometry. RESULTS: Galectin-7 was markedly upregulated in BF-derived exosomes from SJS/TEN patients and showed a correlation with disease severity. Further analysis confirmed the interaction between galectin-7 and transient receptor potential (melastatin) 2 (TRPM2). BF-derived exosomes from SJS/TEN patients induced an imbalance in mitochondrial dynamics via galectin-7/TRPM2 upregulation. Activation of TRPM2 led to an elevation in mitochondrial Zn(2+), which facilitated the recruitment of the fission factor dynamin-related protein-1 (DRP-1) to mitochondria to trigger mitochondrial fission in the keratinocyte. In addition, the recruitment of DRP-1-dependent mitochondrial fission via the voltage-dependent anion channel 1 (VDAC1)/hexokinase 2 (HK2)-mediated opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP)-triggered cytochrome c release. These effects ultimately induce activation of the intrinsic mitochondrial apoptotic pathway and contribute to the pathogenesis of SJS/TEN. CONCLUSIONS: Targeting the galectin-7/TRPM2/Zn(2+)/DRP-1 signaling pathway in keratinocytes presents a prospective therapeutic strategy for mitigating SJS/TEN in the future.
PXD046055	40043953	Pseudomonas aeruginosa PfpI is a methylglyoxalase. 	Structural and functional elucidation of four putative PQS-binding proteins in Pseudomonas aeruginosa	Pseudomonas aeruginosa, global stress response, glyoxylase, glyoxylate metabolism	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen, commonly associated with human airway infections. Based on its amino acid sequence similarity with Pyrococcus furiosusprotease I, P. aeruginosa PfpI was originally annotated as an intracellular protease. In this work, we show that PfpI is a methylglyoxalase. The X-ray crystal structure of the purified protein was solved to 1.4 Aa resolution. The structural data indicated that PfpI shares the same constellation of active site residues (including the catalytic Cys112 and His113) as those seen in a well-characterized bacterial methylglyoxalase from Escherichia coli, YhbO. Using NMR, we confirmed that PfpI qualitatively converted methylglyoxal into lactic acid. Quantitation of lactate produced by the methylglyoxalase activity of PfpI yielded a kcat of 102 min(-1) and a KM of 369 muM. Mutation of Cys112 and His113 in PfpI led to complete loss of methylglyoxalase activity. To investigate the functional impact of PfpI in vivo, a DeltapfpI deletion mutant was made. Quantitative proteomic analyses revealed a pattern of changes consistent with perturbation of ribosomal function, Zn(2+) limitation, C1 metabolism, and glutathione metabolism. These findings are consistent with PfpI being a glutathione-independent methylglyoxalase. Previously, transposon insertion (pfpI::Tn) mutants have been reported to exhibit phenotypes associated with antibiotic resistance, motility and the response to oxidative stress. However, the DeltapfpI mutant generated in this study displayed none of these phenotypes. Whole-genome sequencing of the previously described pfpI::Tn mutants revealed that they also contain a variety of other genetic changes that likely account for their observed phenotypes.
PXD059799	40044042	Upregulation of protein O-GlcNAcylation levels promotes zebrafish fin regeneration. 	Upregulation of protein O-GlcNAcylation levels promotes zebrafish fin regeneration	O-GlcNAc, fin regeneration, zebrafish	As one of the most important post-translational modifications, glycosylation participates in various cellular activities in organisms and is closely associated with many pathogeneses. It has been reported that glycosylation affects liver, spinal cord, and heart tissue regeneration. The zebrafish fin has become a valuable model due to its high regenerative capacity. The molecular mechanism of regeneration has been a hot research topic in the field for a long time. However, studies on the influence of glycosylation during limb regeneration in zebrafish are relatively scarce. We discovered that O-GlcNAc expression, identified by WGA, was elevated during the regeneration of the injured fin in zebrafish using lectin microarray. This phenomenon is due to the upregulation of the expression of OGT enzymes and elevated O-GlcNAcylation levels. To investigate the effects on the fin regeneration when O-GlcNAcylation changes, we used OSMI-1 or Alloxan unilateral microinjection to decrease O-GlcNAcylation and observed that it prevented the fin regeneration. Conversely, the O-GlcNAcylation was impressed by a unilateral microinjection of Thiamet-G or Glucose into the fin, leading to a stimulation of the fin regeneration. To further understand the role of O-GlcNAcylation in fin regeneration, LC-MS/MS was performed to identify O-GlcNAc-glycoproteins. The results demonstrated that the O-GlcNAc glycoproteins, such as THBS4 and HSPG, were involved in the regulation of zebrafish fin regeneration process and were closely associated with certain biological processes, such as stem cell differentiation, ECM-receptor interaction pathway, tissue remodeling, etc. We demonstrated that O-GlcNAc glycoproteins are crucial for zebrafish fin regeneration, during which OGT promotes the process by upregulating the O-GlcNAcylation levels in the zebrafish fin.
PXD050687	40044606	Multi-Omics Reveal the Metabolic Changes in Cumulus Cells During Aging. 	Quantitative proteomics analysis of cumulus cells from the young and old mice	TMT, cumulus cells	Maternal age has been reported to impair oocyte quality. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying the age-related decrease in oocyte competence remain poorly understood. Cumulus cells establish direct contact with the oocyte through gap junctions, facilitating the provision of crucial nutrients necessary for oocyte development. In this study, we obtained the proteomic and metabolomic profiles of cumulus cells from both young and old mice. We found that fatty acid beta-oxidation and nucleotide metabolism, markedly active in aged cumulus cells, may serve as a compensatory mechanism for energy provision. Tryptophan undergoes two principal metabolic pathways, including the serotonin (5-HT) synthesis and kynurenine catabolism. Notably, we discovered that kynurenine catabolism is reduced in aged cumulus cells compared to young cells, whereas 5-HT synthesis exhibited a significant decrease. Furthermore, the supplement of 5-HT during cumulus-oocyte complexes (COCs) culture significantly ameliorated the metabolic dysfunction and meiotic defects in old oocytes. In sum, our data provide a comprehensive multiple omics resource, offering potential insights for improving oocyte quality and promoting fertility in aged females.
PXD052634	40044913	The landscape of renal protein S-acylation in mice with lipid-induced nephrotoxicity. 	The landscape of renal protein cysteine acylation in mice with kidney injury induced by a high fat diet	Chow-diet, DIA, HF-diet, Mus Musculus, PALMITOYLATED, Whole Proteome	Excess fat intake is associated with kidney toxicity and dysfunction. Because fatty acids can also be reversibly attached onto cysteine residues and modulate the function of several membrane-bound proteins, we studied the effect of high-fat diet (HFD) on the S-acylated proteome of mouse kidneys to uncover novel biochemical changes that might contribute to lipid-induced nephrotoxicity. We compared the S-acylated proteome of kidneys from mice fed a chow diet (CD) or a HFD. HFD caused albuminuria. The HFD intervention induced a large-scale repression of protein S-acylation as well as of the most abundant ceramides and sphingomyelin species, which are highly suggestive of a reduction in acyl-CoA availability. The HFD-induced S-acylation repression mostly affected proteins involved in endocytosis and intracellular transport. Notably, the kidneys of mice fed a HFD displayed a marked decrease in the total amount and in the S-acylated form of megalin, the main tubular protein retrieval system. Further in vitro experiments indicated that S-acylation inhibition results in a reduction of megalin protein level. We conclude that diet-induced derangement of fatty acid metabolism modifies the renal landscape of the S-acylated proteome during the early stages of the kidney injury, which might reduce the efficiency of protein reabsorption by the proximal tubule.
PXD059774	40047465	The role of indole-3-acetic acid and characterization of PIN transporters in complex streptophyte alga Chara braunii. 	The plant hormone auxin triggers distinct and rapid phosphorylation responses in Chara braunii	algae, auxin, phospho-proteomics	Auxin, indole-3-acetic acid (IAA), is a key phytohormone with diverse morphogenic roles in land plants, but its function and transport mechanisms in algae remain poorly understood. We therefore aimed to explore the role of IAA in a complex, streptophyte algae Chara braunii. Here, we described novel responses of C. braunii to IAA and characterized two homologs of PIN auxin efflux carriers: CbPINa and CbPINc. We determined their localization in C. braunii using epitope-specific antibodies and tested their function in heterologous land plant models. Further, using phosphoproteomic analysis, we identified IAA-induced phosphorylation events. The thallus regeneration assay showed that IAA promotes thallus elongation and side branch development. Immunolocalization of CbPINa and CbPINc confirmed their presence on the plasma membrane of vegetative and generative cells of C. braunii. However, functional assays in tobacco BY-2 cells demonstrated that CbPINa affects auxin transport, whereas CbPINc does not. The IAA is effective in the acceleration of cytoplasmic streaming and the phosphorylation of evolutionary conserved targets such as homolog of RAF-like kinase. These findings suggest that, although canonical PIN-mediated auxin transport mechanisms might not be fully conserved in Chara, IAA is involved in morphogenesis and fast signaling processes.
PXD055265	40048738	DNMT3A regulates murine megakaryocyte-biased hematopoietic stem cell fate decisions. 	DNMT3A regulates megakaryocyte-biased HSC fate decisions	DNA methylation, DNMT3A, Megakaryocytes, platelets	Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are defined by their capacity to regenerate all main components of the peripheral blood, but individual HSCs exhibit a range of preferences for generating downstream cell types. Their propensities are thought to be epigenetically encoded, but few differential regulatory mechanisms have been identified. In this work, we explored the role of the DNA methyltransferase 3A (DNMT3A) in the megakaryocyte-biased HSC population, which is thought to reside at the top of the hematopoietic hierarchy. We demonstrate that heterozygous loss of DNMT3A (Dnmt3a+/-) in these megakaryocyte-biased HSCs has consequences distinct from the rest of the HSC pool. These megakaryocyte-biased HSCs become delayed in their lymphoid-repopulating ability but can ultimately regenerate all lineages. We further demonstrate that Dnmt3a+/- mice have increased numbers of megakaryocytes in the bone marrow. Analysis of DNA methylation differences between WT and Dnmt3a+/- HSC subsets, megakaryocyte-erythroid progenitors (MEP), and megakaryocytes revealed that DNA methylation is eroded in the mutants in a cell type-specific fashion. While transcriptional differences between the WT and Dnmt3a+/- megakaryocyte-biased HSCs are subtle, the pattern of DNA methylation loss in this HSC subset is almost completely different from that in non-megakaryocyte-biased HSCs. Together, our findings establish the role of epigenetic regulation in the fate of megakaryocyte-biased HSCs and their downstream progeny and suggest that the outcomes of DNMT3A loss might vary depending on the identity of the HSC that acquires the mutation.
PXD060610	40048740	Targeting the RBM39-MEK5 axis synergizes with bortezomib to inhibit the malignant growth of multiple myeloma. 	The research of RBM39 in multiple myeloma	RBM39	Aberrant alternative splicing is one of the hallmarks of cancer and is potentially based on upregulated expression of splicing factors in some types of cancer. Our previous study suggested that the splicing factor RBM39 is significantly upregulated in multiple myeloma (MM) and that its upregulation is positively associated with poor prognosis. Here, we further demonstrate that the survival and proliferation of MM cells rely on RBM39 and that RBM39 knockdown inhibits the malignant growth of MM. Indisulam, a "molecular glue" that mediates the proteasomal degradation of RBM39, has potent suppressive effects on MM both in vitro and in vivo. Deletion of RBM39 results in extensively altered splicing, with mis-splicing of MEK5 verified to inhibit the malignant growth of MM. Full-length MEK5 plays a vital role in maintaining MM cell survival, whereas aberrant MEK5 isoforms with exon loss exhibit loss of function and a propensity for proteasomal degradation. Targeting RBM39 or MEK5 synergistically increases the cytotoxicity of bortezomib in MM cells via the inhibition of p65. Our study validates the specific mechanism of RBM39 in MM, providing an approach for broader targeting and optimized therapeutic strategies for MM.
PXD057104	40049367	Sex-specific molecular hallmarks point to increased atherogenesis susceptibility in male senescence-accelerated mice. 	Sex-specific molecular hallmarks of atherogenesis susceptibility in senescence-accelerated mice	Aging, atherosclerosis, calcification, extracellular vesicles, lipid metabolism., senescence	AIMS: The senescence-accelerated mouse (SAM) model has been extensively used to study neurological alterations associated with aging. The SAM model has also proved to be useful in the study of vascular aging, but there is still work to be done to better define its utility as a model of atherosclerosis, since contradictory data have been published and sex seems to play a crucial role in potential divergences. MATERIALS AND METHODS: With this in mind, we aimed to decipher the molecular mechanisms underlying early vascular aging on SAMP8 mice, analyzing the aorta of 10 months-old animals by means of in-depth proteomic analysis, considering sex-specific differences. Validation of the results obtained were performed by western blot in an independent cohort of mice, as well as in human aortic smooth muscle cells (HASMC). Besides, an exhaustive lipoprotein and glycoprotein analysis was performed in blood plasma. KEY FINDINGS: Distinct proteomic, lipoprotein and glycoprotein profiles have been found in SAMP8 mice, according to sex. Male SAMP8 mice showed signs of increased atherogenesis susceptibility due to several sex-specific alterations: 1) increased number of VLDLs, as well as in their cholesterol and TG content; 2) upregulation of inflammatory glycoproteins in plasma; and 3) increased features of SASP and vascular calcification: upregulation of exocytic vesicular transport and downregulation of the protein Gas6. On the contrary, female mice showed a much better proteomic and lipoprotein profile. SIGNIFICANCE: The results obtained suggest that male SAMP8 mice will be more susceptible to develop atherosclerosis under a HFD than female mice.
PXD056305	40050296	Elevated NAD(+) drives Sir2A-mediated GCbeta deacetylation and OES localization for Plasmodium ookinete gliding and mosquito infection. 	Elevated NAD+ drives Sir2A-mediated GCbeta deacetylation and localization for Plasmodium ookinete gliding and mosquito infection	Deacetylation, Malaria, Motility, Ookinete, Plasmodium	cGMP signal-activated ookinete gliding is essential for mosquito midgut infection of Plasmodium in malaria transmission. During ookinete development, cGMP synthesizer GCbeta polarizes to a unique localization "ookinete extrados site" (OES) until ookinete maturation and activates cGMP signaling for initiating parasite motility. However, the mechanism underlying GCbeta translocation from cytosol to OES remains elusive. Here, we use protein proximity labeling to search the GCbeta-interacting proteins in ookinetes of the rodent malaria parasite P. yoelii, and find the top hit Sir2A, a NAD(+)-dependent sirtuin family deacetylase. Sir2A interacts with GCbeta throughout ookinete development. In mature ookinetes, Sir2A co-localizes with GCbeta at OES in a mutually dependent manner. Parasites lacking Sir2A lose GCbeta localization at OES, ookinete gliding, and mosquito infection, phenocopying GCbeta deficiency. GCbeta is acetylated at gametocytes but is deacetylated by Sir2A for OES localization at mature ookinetes. We further demonstrate that the level of NAD(+), an essential co-substrate for sirtuin, increases during the ookinete development. NAD(+) at its maximal level in mature ookinetes promotes Sir2A-catalyzed GCbeta deacetylation, ensuring GCbeta localization at OES. This study highlights the spatiotemporal coordination of cytosolic NAD(+) level and NAD(+)-dependent Sir2A in regulating GCbeta deacetylation and dynamic localization for Plasmodium ookinete gliding.
PXD047177	40050437	Dietary protein restriction elevates FGF21 levels and energy requirements to maintain body weight in lean men. 	Protein-restricted diet increases circulating FGF21 levels and necessitating an increase in energy intake to maintain body weight in healthy human individuals	FGF21, body weight, energy intake, healthy	Dietary protein restriction increases energy expenditure and enhances insulin sensitivity in mice. However, the effects of a eucaloric protein-restricted diet in healthy humans remain unexplored. Here, we show in lean, healthy men that a protein-restricted diet meeting the minimum protein requirements for 5 weeks necessitates an increase in energy intake to uphold body weight, regardless of whether proteins are replaced with fats or carbohydrates. Upon reverting to the customary higher protein intake in the following 5 weeks, energy requirements return to baseline levels, thus preventing weight gain. We also show that fasting plasma FGF21 levels increase during protein restriction. Proteomic analysis of human white adipose tissue and in FGF21-knockout mice reveal alterations in key components of the electron transport chain within white adipose tissue mitochondria. Notably, in male mice, these changes appear to be dependent on FGF21. In conclusion, we demonstrate that maintaining body weight during dietary protein restriction in healthy, lean men requires a higher energy intake, partially driven by FGF21-mediated mitochondrial adaptations in adipose tissue.
PXD056395	40051915	Multi-omics-based phenotyping of AFG3L2-mutant lymphoblasts determines key factors of a pathophysiological interplay between mitochondrial vulnerability and neurodegeneration in spastic ataxia type 5. 	Multi-omics-based phenotyping of AFG3L2-mutant lymphoblasts determines key factors of a pathophysiological interplay between mitochondrial vulnerability and neurodegeneration in spastic ataxia type 5	AFG3 like matrix AAA peptidase subunit 2, MCU, SPAX5, liquid biopsy, multi-omics lymphoblasts	Mitochondrial integrity is fundamental to cellular function, upheld by a network of proteases that regulate proteostasis and mitochondrial dynamics. Among these proteases, AFG3L2 is critical due to its roles in maintaining mitochondrial homeostasis, regulating mitochondrial protein quality, and facilitating mitochondrial biogenesis. Mutations in AFG3L2 are implicated in a spectrum of diseases, including spinocerebellar ataxia type 28 (SCA28) and spastic ataxia 5 (SPAX5), as well as other systemic conditions. This study employs a multi-omics approach to investigate the biochemical impact of AFG3L2 mutations in immortalized lymphoblastoid cell lines derived from a patient with biallelic variants leading to spastic ataxia (SPAX5). Our proteomic analysis revealed AFG3L2 impairment, with significant dysregulation of proteins critical for mitochondrial function, cytoskeletal integrity, and cellular metabolism. Specifically, disruptions were observed in mitochondrial dynamics and calcium homeostasis, alongside downregulation of key proteins like COX11, a copper chaperone for complex IV assembly, and NFU1, an iron-sulfur cluster protein linked to spastic paraparesis and infection-related worsening. Lipidomic analysis highlighted substantial alterations in lipid composition, with significant decreases in sphingomyelins, phosphatidylethanolamine, and phosphatidylcholine, reflecting disruptions in lipid metabolism and membrane integrity. Metabolomic profiling did not reveal any significant findings. Our comprehensive investigation into loss of functional AFG3L2 elucidates a pathophysiology extending beyond mitochondrial proteostasis, implicating a wide array of cellular processes. The findings reveal substantial cellular disturbances at multiple levels, contributing to neurodegeneration through disrupted mitochondrial respiratory chain, calcium homeostasis, cytoskeletal integrity, and altered lipid homeostasis. This study underscores the complexity of SPAX5 pathophysiology and the importance of multi-omics approaches in developing effective strategies to address the impact of loss of functional AFG3L2. Our data also highlight the value of immortalized lymphoblastoid cells as a tool for pre-clinical testing and research, offering a detailed biochemical fingerprint that enhances our understanding of SPAX5 and identifies potential areas for further investigation.
PXD060054	40052672	Plectin-mediated cytoskeletal crosstalk as a target for inhibition of hepatocellular carcinoma growth and metastasis. 	Plectin-mediated cytoskeletal crosstalk as a target for inhibition of hepatocellular carcinoma growth and metastasis - in vivo profiling	Hepatocellular carcinoma, Metastasis, Plecstatin-1, Plectin, Target	The most common primary malignancy of the liver, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), is a heterogeneous tumor entity with high metastatic potential and complex pathophysiology. Increasing evidence suggests that tissue mechanics plays a critical role in tumor onset and progression. Here, we show that plectin, a major cytoskeletal crosslinker protein, plays a crucial role in mechanical homeostasis and mechanosensitive oncogenic signaling that drives hepatocarcinogenesis. Our expression analyses revealed elevated plectin levels in liver tumors, which correlated with poor prognosis for HCC patients. Using autochthonous and orthotopic mouse models we demonstrated that genetic and pharmacological inactivation of plectin potently suppressed the initiation and growth of HCC. Moreover, plectin targeting potently inhibited the invasion potential of human HCC cells and reduced their metastatic outgrowth in the lung. Proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling linked plectin-dependent disruption of cytoskeletal networks to attenuation of oncogenic FAK, MAPK/Erk, and PI3K/Akt signatures. Importantly, by combining cell line-based and murine HCC models, we show that plectin inhibitor plecstatin-1 (PST) is well-tolerated and potently inhibits HCC progression. In conclusion, our study demonstrates that plectin-controlled cytoarchitecture is a key determinant of HCC development and suggests that pharmacologically induced disruption of mechanical homeostasis may represent a new therapeutic strategy for HCC treatment.
PXD061945	40052860	Comprehensive Proteomic Profiling of Exfoliation Glaucoma Via Mass Spectrometry Reveals SVEP1 as a Potential Biomarker. 	Proteomic study of exfoliation syndrome	exfoliation syndrome, plasma proteomics	Purpose: This study investigated the proteomic landscape of exfoliation glaucoma to find potential biomarkers. Methods: The study enrolled 34 patients diagnosed with either exfoliation syndrome with/without glaucoma or age-related cataract. Plasma proteins were analyzed through mass spectrometry and Mendelian randomization (MR) based on data from deCODE, FinnGen, Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC), eQTLGen, and UK Biobank (UKB) cohorts to infer relationships. Results: Among 2025 plasma proteins analyzed, 130 were differentially expressed in the exfoliation glaucoma group, which exhibited elevated intraocular pressure. Our proteomics data suggested that infection, immune responses including intestinal immune network, endocrine hormones, and complement and coagulation cascades are involved in the development of exfoliation glaucoma. Notably, there was a significant correlation between SVEP1 and exfoliation glaucoma (odds ratio [OR] = 1.20, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.10 to 1.31, P = 0.0000428), with findings corroborated in an independent cohort. Further analysis predicted a protective role of LOXL1-AS1 in exfoliation glaucoma through its regulation of SVEP1 expression. In MR phenome-wide association studies, SVEP1 was associated with complications of exfoliation glaucoma. After multiple testing corrections, there was a tendency for SVEP1 to be associated with glaucoma (OR = 1.14, 95% CI = 1.11 to 1.16, P = 0.0000003) and type 2 diabetes (OR = 1.07, 95% CI = 1.05 to 1.08, P = 0.0000067). Conclusions: Plasma proteomic analysis reveals that high expression of SVEP1 is a risk factor for exfoliation glaucoma, which potentially affects diabetes and is affected by estradiol or LOXL1-AS1. However, further research is needed to establish causality.
PXD056720	40052924	SNX10 functions as a modulator of piecemeal mitophagy and mitochondrial bioenergetics. 	SNX10 regulates the clearance of mitochondrial proteins and mitochondrial bioenergetics	SNX10, autophagy, endocytosis, endosomes, mitochondria, mitochondrial homeostasis, mitophagy	We here identify the endosomal protein SNX10 as a negative regulator of piecemeal mitophagy of OXPHOS machinery components. In control conditions, SNX10 localizes to early endocytic compartments in a PtdIns3P-dependent manner and modulates endosomal trafficking but also shows dynamic connections with mitochondria. Upon hypoxia-mimicking conditions, SNX10 localizes to late endosomal structures containing selected mitochondrial proteins, including COX-IV and SAMM50, and the autophagy proteins SQSTM1/p62 and LC3B. The turnover of COX-IV was enhanced in SNX10-depleted cells, with a corresponding reduced mitochondrial respiration and citrate synthase activity. Importantly, zebrafish larvae lacking Snx10 show reduced levels of Cox-IV, as well as elevated ROS levels and ROS-mediated cell death in the brain, demonstrating the in vivo relevance of SNX10-mediated modulation of mitochondrial bioenergetics.
PXD058335	40053521	Redox-inactive CC-type glutaredoxins interfere with TGA transcription factor-dependent repression of target promoters in roots. 	CEPD/ROXY6-9 proteins activate N starvation response genes by interfering with the repressive activity of transcription factors TGA1 and TGA4	CC-type glutaredoxins, N starvation, TGA transcription factors, TurboID-mediated proximity labeling	Changes in nitrogen (N) availability in the soil trigger transcriptional responses in plants to optimize N acquisition, allocation, and remobilization. In roots of N-starved Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) plants, transcriptional activation of genes encoding, for example, low-affinity nitrate transporters, depends on 4 related C-TERMINALLY ENCODED PEPTIDE DOWNSTREAM (CEPD) proteins, also known as ROXY6, ROXY7, ROXY8, and ROXY9. All 21 ROXYs found in A. thaliana interact with members of the TGACG-binding (TGA) family of transcription factors. Here, we demonstrate that 2 Clade I TGAs (TGA1, TGA4) serve as molecular links between CEPDs and their target promoters in roots. In the roxy6 roxy7 roxy8 roxy9 quadruple mutant (named cepd in this manuscript), transcriptional activation of N-starvation-inducible genes is impaired, most likely due to the association of Clade I TGAs with a repressive complex at their target promoters. In wild-type plants, this repressive complex is nonfunctional, and gene expression may be regulated by the N supply-regulated ratio of CEPDs over opposing ROXYs containing the TOPLESS-interacting ALWL motif. Although CEPDs resemble glutaredoxins with glutathione-dependent oxidoreductase activity, a ROXY9 variant with a mutation in the catalytic cysteine in its putative active site can confer wild-type-like regulation of target genes. This finding demonstrates that ROXY9 does not function through redox-dependent mechanisms.
PXD053602	40053579	Key role of Desulfobacteraceae in C/S cycles of marine sediments is based on congeneric catabolic-regulatory networks. 	Shotgun proteomic data of Desulfobacula toluolica Tol2	Desulfobacteraceae, Desulfobacula toluolica Tol2	Marine sediments are highly bioactive habitats, where sulfate-reducing bacteria contribute substantially to seabed carbon cycling by oxidizing ~77 Tmol Corg year(-1). This remarkable activity is largely attributable to the deltaproteobacterial family Desulfobacteraceae of complete oxidizers (to CO2), which our biogeography focused meta-analysis verified as cosmopolitan. However, the catabolic/regulatory networks underlying this ecophysiological feat at the thermodynamic limit are essentially unknown. Integrating cultivation-based (80 conditions) proteogenomics of six representative Desulfobacteraceae spp., we identify molecular commonalities explaining the family's environmental relevance and success. Desulfobacteraceae genomes are specifically enriched in substrate uptake, degradation capacities, and regulatory functions including fine-tuned sulfate uptake. Conserved gene arrangements and shared regulatory patterns translate into strikingly similar (sub-)proteome profiles. From 319 proteins, we constructed a meta-network for catabolizing 35 substrates. Therefrom, we defined a Desulfobacteraceae characteristic gene subset, which we found prevalent in metagenomes of organic-rich, marine sediments. These genes are promising targets to advance our mechanistic understanding of Desulfobacteraceae-driven biogeochemical processes in marine sediments and beyond.
PXD054895	40054721	Effects of a protein kinase C epsilon inhibitor on insulin signalling in lipid-treated HepG2 hepatocytes and glucose tolerance in fat-fed mice. 	Effects of a protein kinase C epsilon inhibitor on insulin signalling in lipid-treated HepG2 hepatocytes and glucose tolerance in fat-fed mice	DIA, LCMS, Liver, SWATH	AIMS: Protein kinase C epsilon (PKCepsilon) plays a causative role in the development of glucose intolerance, and is a potential target for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. Here, we examined the effects of the PKCepsilon inhibitor CIDD-0150612 (CP612) on insulin action in palmitate-treated HepG2 hepatocytes in vitro and on glucose homeostasis in fat-fed mice in vivo. METHODS: HepG2 cells were treated with palmitate and CP612 and stimulated with insulin. Insulin signalling was examined by immunoblotting and glucose incorporation into glycogen was measured using glucose tracer. Mice were fed a high-fat diet and treated with CP612 prior to glucose tolerance tests and tissue harvest. Proteomic analysis of liver was carried out by mass spectrometry. RESULTS: CP612 promoted Akt phosphorylation in a highly insulin-dependent manner and reversed the inhibition of insulin-stimulated Akt phosphorylation and glucose incorporation into glycogen by palmitate. Fat-fed mice treated with CP612 had reduced fat mass, but not lean mass, compared with vehicle-treated littermates. Mice treated acutely with CP612 exhibited elevated fasting blood glucose. However, mice studied 24h after the last dose had lower fasting glucose and improved glucose tolerance with a lower insulin excursion. Proteomic analysis of liver from CP612-treated fat-fed mice indicated a reduction in gluconeogenic gene expression and decreased phosphorylation of the transcription factor Foxk1. CONCLUSIONS: The PKCepsilon inhibitor CP612 had beneficial effects on insulin action in hepatocytes and on fat mass and glucose homeostasis in mice. Because certain effects were not previously observed in genetically PKCepsilon-deficient mice, off-target effects may be partly responsible.
PXD057882	40055327	Urinary extracellular vesicle N-glycomics identifies diagnostic glycosignatures for bladder cancer. 	Comprehensive N-Glycomics Profiling of Urinary Extracellular Vesicles Identifies a Novel Biomarker Panel for Diagnosis of Bladder Cancer	N-glycosylation, biomarker, bladder cancer, urinary extracellular vesicles	Bladder cancer (BC) is the most common urologic malignancy, facing enormous diagnostic challenges. Urinary extracellular vesicles (EVs) are promising source for developing diagnostic markers for bladder cancer because of the direct contact between urine and bladder. This study pioneers urinary EV N-glycomics for bladder cancer diagnosis. We have generated a comprehensive N-glycome landscape of urinary EVs through high-throughput N-glycome analysis, identifying a total of 252 N-glycans from 333 individuals. In bladder cancer patients, urinary EVs exhibit decreased fucosylation and increased sialylation level. An Eight N-glycan diagnostic model demonstrates strong performance in both validation cohorts, achieving ROC AUC values of 0.88 and 0.86, respectively. Furthermore, this model successfully differentiates both non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) and muscle-invasive bladder cancer (MIBC) from healthy individuals, underscoring the model's superiority. Moreover, urinary EVs N-glycoproteomic analysis reveals that the glycoproteins carrying cancer-associated N-glycan signatures are closely associated with immune activities. The N-glycome comparative analysis of EVs and their source cells indicate that the glycosylation profiles of EVs do not completely match the glycosylation backgrounds of their source cells. In summary, our study establishes urinary EV N-glycomics as a non-invasive BC screening tool and provide a framework for EV glycan biomarker discovery across cancers.
PXD051234	40055916	Exosomal integrin alpha 3 promotes epithelial ovarian cancer cell migration via the S100A7/p-ERK signaling pathway. 	Ascites Exosomes from Epithelial Ovarian Cancer Patients Contain ITGA3, Which Promotes the Migration of Epithelial Ovarian Cancer Cell	S100, epithelial ovarian cancer, exosome, integrin, migration	Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) is a highly aggressive malignancy with a poor prognosis due to late-stage diagnosis and the lack of reliable biomarkers for early detection. Exosomes, small vesicles involved in intercellular communication, play a critical role in cancer progression by promoting migration, proliferation, and metastasis. This study investigates the role of exosomal proteins in EOC cell migration and identifies potential biomarkers. Exosomes are isolated from the ascites fluid of EOC patients (C-Exos) and benign ovarian disease patients (B-Exos), and mass spectrometry analysis of clinical samples reveals 185 differentially expressed proteins, with integrin alpha 3 (ITGA3) being strongly associated with poor prognosis. ITGA3 is transported via exosomes to recipient EOC cells, where it is released into the cytoplasm and translocated to the cell membrane. This localization enables ITGA3 to activate the intracellular signaling pathways that drive EOC migration. Immunoprecipitation mass spectrometry of clinical samples reveals that ITGA3 may influence EOC migration through the S100A7/p-ERK signaling pathway. Mechanistically, ITGA3 activates ERK signaling through S100A7, promoting cell migration. In vivo, exosomes enrich with ITGA3 facilitates tumor growth and migration, whereas ITGA3 knockdown reduces these effects. These findings suggest that exosomal ITGA3, via the S100A7/p-ERK signaling pathway, promotes EOC cell migration. ITGA3 could serve as a prognostic biomarker and therapeutic target in EOC. Targeting the ITGA3/S100A7 axis may help suppress migration, suggesting a promising strategy to improve EOC patient outcomes.
PXD056898	40055995	Using MALDI-FTICR Mass Spectrometry to Enhance ZooMS Identifications of Pleistocene Bone Fragments Showing Variable Collagen Preservation. 	Enhancing ZooMS applications with MALDI-FTICR mass spectrometry on Pleistocene material showing variable collagen preservation	CASI, MALDI-MS, PRM, ZooMS, collagen, paleoproteomics	RATIONALE: Recent advances in high-throughput molecular analyses of collagen peptides, especially ZooMS (Zooarchaeology by Mass Spectrometry), have permitted breakthroughs in the analysis of archaeological material that is highly fragmented, a factor that hinders morphological identification. Despite these advances, the challenge of successfully analysing archaeological samples with poorer collagen preservation persists. This paper examines the potential of two mass analysers, TOF (Time of Flight) and FTICR (Fourier-transform ion cyclotron resonance), and addresses how they can be used to optimise the ZooMS workflow. METHODS: Type 1 collagen (COL1) was extracted from 89 archaeological bones from the French Palaeolithic site of Le Piage (37-34 ka cal BP). Three ZooMS extraction protocols were applied, an acid-free buffer method (AmBic), offering rapid and less destructive analysis, and two methods of acid demineralisation (HCl and TFA) that provide higher peptide resolution. After analysing the specimens with MALDI-TOF and MALDI-FTICR, we used bottom-up and PRM (Parallel Reaction Monitoring) LC-MS/MS, and MALDI-CASI-FTICR (Continuous Accumulation of Selected Ions) to verify 26 ambiguous identifications. RESULTS: Overall, 99% of the samples could be identified to at least family level, with the rate of identification and precision varying by method. Despite challenges in detecting specific biomarkers with MALDI-FTICR-especially peptide A (COL1a2 978-990), which tends to be unstable and poorly ionised-the high resolution of this method allowed the successful identification of more degraded specimens, including burnt bones. CONCLUSIONS: Our work highlights the robustness of traditional MALDI-TOF ZooMS for retrieving collagen and for providing taxonomic identifications with low failure rates, features that are critical when processing large numbers of samples. MALDI-FTICR shows better potential when working with precious samples or degraded collagen. This study advances the analytical detection of peptides by optimising the ZooMS workflow and by tailoring it to specific archaeological contexts showing variation in degree of preservation.
PXD055908	40056008	The Influence of Symbiont Identity on the Proteomic and Metabolomic Responses of the Model Cnidarian Aiptasia to Thermal Stress. 	The influence of symbiont identity on the proteomic and metabolomic responses of the model cnidarian Aiptasia to thermal stress	Exaiptasia diaphana, Symbiodiniaceae, cnidaria, coral bleaching, symbiosis	We examined the effects of symbiont identity and heat stress on the host metabolome and proteome in the cnidarian-dinoflagellate symbiosis. Exaiptasia diaphana ('Aiptasia') was inoculated with its homologous (i.e., native) symbiont Breviolum minutum or a heterologous (i.e., non-native) symbiont (Symbiodinium microadriaticum; Durusdinium trenchii) and thermally stressed. Integrated metabolome and proteome analyses characterised host thermal responses between symbioses, with clear evidence of enhanced nutritional deprivation and cellular stress in hosts harbouring heterologous symbionts following temperature stress. Host metabolomes were partially distinct at the control temperature; however, thermal stress caused metabolomes of anemones containing the two heterologous symbionts to become more alike and more distinct from those containing B. minutum. While these patterns could be partly explained by innate symbiont-specific differences, they may also reflect differences in symbiont density, as under control conditions D. trenchii attained 60% and S. microadriaticum 15% of the density attained by B. minutum, and at elevated temperature only D. trenchii-colonised anemones bleached (60% loss). Our findings add to a growing literature that highlights the physiological limits of partner switching as a means of adaptation to global warming. However, we also provide tentative evidence for improved metabolic functioning with a heterologous symbiont (D. trenchii) after sustained symbiosis.
PXD061452	40056653	Self-packed size-exclusion columns enable versatile high-throughput native, top-down, and ion mobility-mass spectrometry studies on proteins and complexes. 	Self-packed size-exclusion columns enable versatile high-throughput native, top-down, and ion-mobility-mass spectrometry studies on proteins and complexes.	PROTAC, Size-exclusion chromatography, ion mobility, ligand screening, native mass spectrometry, top-down proteomics	Native MS (nMS) is a key structural biology technique that makes it possible to study intact proteins and their interactions. Unfortunately, non-volatile salts are incompatible with nMS, which demands a laborious desalting procedure. Non-denaturing size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) allows both rapid desalting and separation and has previously been explored for nMS automation. However, SEC at conventional scale requires rather large sample amounts as well as harsh ESI conditions, which can cause protein unfolding. Capillary LC allows softer conditions; however, the few commercially available SEC columns appropriate for this flow rate are prohibitively expensive for many laboratories. Existing protocols for packing buffer exchange columns rely on specialized equipment and/or result in columns that have limited capacity for size-based protein separation. Here, we present self-packed miniaturized SEC columns with different stationary phases and customizable dimensions. The columns, produced via slurry packing with an ordinary LC pump were used across a range of samples in several applications including nMS, top-down MS (TDMS), ligand screening, and ion mobility (IM)-MS. Native separation allowed acquisition of data from samples containing more than one protein. We acquired native TDMS data of 3 proteins in 12 min, with up to 47 % sequence coverage. IM-MS of alpha-synuclein at different charge states was measured in ca. 60 min (including calibrants), with results that match the literature. Finally, we used SEC-nMS to rapidly screen proteolysis-targeting chimera candidates and performed collision-induced unfolding (CIU) of a PROTAC-induced ternary complex. Through this work, we highlight the potential of SEC to support developments in structural MS.
PXD060326	40056904	LTA4H improves the tumor microenvironment and prevents HCC progression via targeting the HNRNPA1/LTBP1/TGF-beta axis. 	Hepa1-6 cell line overexpressing Flag-LTA4H LC-MS/MS	HCC, HNRNPA1, LTA4H	Leukotriene A4 hydrolase (LTA4H), an inflammatory mediator, has garnered attention for its role in the development of chronic lung diseases and various cancers. Our study highlights the protective role of LTA4H in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) occurrence and progression. LTA4H is downregulated in clinical and mouse HCC tumors. LTA4H deficiency exacerbates hepatocyte damage by restraining JNK activation and promotes CD206(+) macrophage polarization through the upregulation of LTBP1 expression and downstream transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) secretion and activation. Mechanistically, LTA4H induces heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A1 (HNRNPA1) phosphorylation, enhancing their interaction and leading to the functional inhibition of HNRNPA1 in regulating Ltbp1 mRNA maturation and processing in the nucleus. LTA4H-deficient patients exhibit poor prognosis and immunotherapy resistance. Combination therapy targeting TGF-beta and PD-1 significantly improves the immunotherapy resistance of LTA4H-knockout Hepa1-6 tumors. Our findings reveal the previously unreported role of LTA4H in regulating the tumor microenvironment and provide insights into potential diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for patients with LTA4H-deficient HCC.
PXD056233	40057470	An atlas of RNA-dependent proteins in cell division reveals the riboregulation of mitotic protein-protein interactions. 	Unconventional RNA-binding proteins in mitosis	RNA-binding proteins, RNA-dependent protein-protein interactions, mitotic factors	Ribonucleoprotein complexes are dynamic assemblies of RNA with RNA-binding proteins, which modulate the fate of RNA. Inversely, RNA riboregulates the interactions and functions of the associated proteins. Dysregulation of ribonucleoprotein functions is linked to diseases such as cancer and neurological disorders. In dividing cells, RNA and RNA-binding proteins are present in mitotic structures, but their impact on cell division remains unclear. By applying the proteome-wide R-DeeP strategy to cells synchronized in mitosis versus interphase integrated with the RBP2GO knowledge, we provided an atlas of RNA-dependent proteins in cell division, accessible at R-DeeP3.dkfz.de. We uncovered AURKA, KIFC1 and TPX2 as unconventional RNA-binding proteins. KIFC1 was identified as a new substrate of AURKA, and new TPX2-interacting protein. Their pair-wise interactions were RNA dependent. In addition, RNA stimulated AURKA kinase activity and stabilized its conformation. In this work, we highlighted riboregulation of major mitotic factors as an additional complexity level of cell division.
PXD055845	40057493	Oncogenic and microenvironmental signals drive cell type specific apoptosis resistance in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia. 	Oncogenic and microenvironmental signals drive cell type-specific apoptosis resistance in juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia	BCL-XL, BCL2, JMML, Juvenile monocytic leukemia, MCL-1, PTPN11, SHP2, apoptosis, extrinsic and intrinsic SHP2 signalling	Juvenile myelomonocytic leukemia (JMML) is caused by constitutively activated RAS signaling and characterized by increased proliferation and predominant myelomonocytic differentiation of hematopoietic cells. Using MxCre;Ptpn11(D61Y/+) mice, which model human JMML, we show that RAS pathway activation affects apoptosis signaling through cell type-dependent regulation of BCL-2 family members. Apoptosis resistance observed in monocytes and granulocytes was mediated by overexpression of the anti-apoptotic and down-regulation of the pro-apoptotic members of the BCL-2 family. Two anti-apoptotic proteins, BCL-XL and MCL-1, were directly regulated by the oncogenic RAS signaling but, in addition, were influenced by microenvironmental signals. While BCL-XL and BCL-2 were required for the survival of monocytes, MCL-1 was essential for neutrophils. Interestingly, stem and progenitor cells expressing the oncogenic PTPN11 mutant showed no increased apoptosis resistance. BCL-XL inhibition was the most effective in killing myeloid cells in vitro but was insufficient to completely resolve myeloproliferation in vivo.
PXD052430	40057501	A mini-hairpin shaped nascent peptide blocks translation termination by a distinct mechanism. 	A mini-hairpin shaped nascent peptide blocks translation termination by a distinct mechanism	Eschericha coli, Translation, Translational arrest, peptidyl-tRNA, small ORFs	Protein synthesis by ribosomes produces functional proteins but also serves diverse regulatory functions, which depend on the coding amino acid sequences. Certain nascent peptides interact with the ribosome exit tunnel to arrest translation and modulate themselves or the expression of downstream genes. However, a comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms of such ribosome stalling and its regulation remains elusive. In this study, we systematically screen for unidentified ribosome arrest peptides through phenotypic evaluation, proteomics, and mass spectrometry analyses, leading to the discovery of the arrest peptides PepNL and NanCL in E. coli. Our cryo-EM study on PepNL reveals a distinct arrest mechanism, in which the N-terminus of PepNL folds back towards the tunnel entrance to prevent the catalytic GGQ motif of the release factor from accessing the peptidyl transferase center, causing translation arrest at the UGA stop codon. Furthermore, unlike sensory arrest peptides that require an arrest inducer, PepNL uses tryptophan as an arrest inhibitor, where Trp-tRNA(Trp) reads through the stop codon. Our findings illuminate the mechanism and regulatory framework of nascent peptide-induced translation arrest, paving the way for exploring regulatory nascent peptides.
PXD051842	40059196	NONO interacts with nuclear PKM2 and directs histone H3 phosphorylation to promote triple-negative breast cancer metastasis. 	Human triple negative breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231 LC-MSMS	NONO, TBNC	BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence has revealed that PKM2 has oncogenic functions independent of its canonical pyruvate kinase activity, serving as a protein kinase that regulates gene expression. However, the mechanism by which PKM2, as a histone kinase, regulates the transcription of genes involved in triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) metastasis remains poorly understood. METHODS: We integrated cellular analysis, including cell viability, proliferation, colony formation, and migration assays; biochemical assays, including protein interaction studies and ChIP; clinical sample analysis; RNA-Seq and CUT&Tag data; and xenograft or mammary-specific gene knockout mouse models, to investigate the epigenetic modulation of TNBC metastasis via NONO-dependent interactions with nuclear PKM2. RESULTS: We report that the transcription factor NONO directly interacts with nuclear PKM2 and directs PKM2-mediated phosphorylation of histone H3 at threonine 11 (H3T11ph) to promote TNBC metastasis. We show that H3T11ph cooperates with TIP60-mediated acetylation of histone H3 at lysine 27 (H3K27ac) to activate SERPINE1 expression and to increase the proliferative, migratory, and invasive abilities of TNBC cells in a NONO-dependent manner. Conditional mammary loss of NONO or PKM2 markedly suppressed SERPINE1 expression and attenuated the malignant progression of spontaneous mammary tumors in mice. Importantly, elevated expression of NONO or PKM2 in TNBC patients is positively correlated with SERPINE1 expression, enhanced invasiveness, and poor clinical outcomes. CONCLUSION: These findings revealed that the NONO-dependent interaction with nuclear PKM2 is key for the epigenetic modulation of TNBC metastasis, suggesting a novel intervention strategy for treating TNBC.
PXD058697	40066567	Combined Loss of Obsc and Obsl1 in Murine Hearts Results in Diastolic Dysfunction, Altered Metabolism, and Deregulated Mitophagy. 	Combined loss of obscurin and obscurin-like 1 in murine  hearts results in diastolic dysfunction, altered metabolism  and deregulated mitophagy.	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP), mouse heart muscle iTRAQ obscurin	BACKGROUND: Muscle proteins of the obscurin protein family play important roles in sarcomere organization and sarcoplasmic reticulum and T-tubule architecture and function. However, their precise molecular functions and redundancies between protein family members as well as their involvement in cardiac diseases remain to be fully understood. METHODS: To investigate the functional roles of Obsc (obscurin) and its close homolog Obsl1 (obscurin-like 1) in the heart, we generated and analyzed knockout mice for Obsc, Obsl1, as well as Obsc/Obsl1 double knockouts. RESULTS: We show that double-knockout mice are viable but show postnatal deficits in cardiac muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial architecture and function at the microscopic, biochemical, and cellular levels. Altered sarcoplasmic reticulum structure resulted in perturbed calcium cycling, whereas mitochondrial ultrastructure deficits were linked to decreased levels of Chchd3 (coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coil-helix domain containing 3), a Micos (mitochondrial contact site and cristae organizing system) complex protein. Hearts of double-knockout mice also show altered levels of Atg4 proteins, novel Obsl1 interactors, resulting in abnormal mitophagy, and increased unfolded protein response. At the physiological level, loss of obscurin and Obsl1 resulted in a profound delay of cardiac relaxation, associated with metabolic signs of heart failure. CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our data suggest that Obsc and Obsl1 play crucial roles in cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum structure, calcium cycling, mitochondrial function, turnover, and metabolism.
PXD056042	40067889	NBS1 facilitates preribosomal RNA biogenesis. 	NBS1 facilitates pre-ribosomal RNA biogenesis	NBS1, Pre-ribosomal RNA, nucleolus	Mutations in the NBS1 gene result in Nijmegen breakage syndrome (NBS), and the gene encodes NBS1 that forms a complex with MRE11 and RAD50 and participates in DNA damage repair. However, the molecular mechanism by which NBS1 mutations cause clinical phenotypes of NBS, such as craniofacial dysmorphism, is still unclear. Here, we show that NBS1 localizes at the ribosomal DNA (rDNA) loci in nucleoli and interacts with ribosomal RNA (rRNA) transcription machinery including RNA polymerase I (Pol I) and TCOF1. Loss of NBS1 impairs Pol I-dependent transcription of pre-rRNA and induces nucleolar stress. In particular, lacking Nbs1 in mouse neural crest cells not only leads to the reduction of ribosome biogenesis but also craniofacial abnormalities during prenatal development. Moreover, the C-terminus of NBS1 is associated with pre-rRNA and a number of pre-rRNA processing factors, which may also facilitate pre-rRNA maturation. Taken together, our study reveals the functions of NBS1 in rRNA biogenesis.
PXD060416	40069208	Filamentation activates bacterial Avs5 antiviral protein. 	Proteins of T7 phage pulled down with EfAvs5,LC-MSMS		Bacterial antiviral STANDs (Avs) are evolutionarily related to the nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain (NOD)-like receptors widely distributed in immune systems across animals and plants. EfAvs5, a type 5 Avs from Escherichia fergusonii, contains an N-terminal SIR2 effector domain, a NOD, and a C-terminal sensor domain, conferring protection against diverse phage invasions. Despite the established roles of SIR2 and STAND in prokaryotic and eukaryotic immunity, the mechanism underlying their collaboration remains unclear. Here we present cryo-EM structures of EfAvs5 filaments, elucidating the mechanisms of dimerization, filamentation, filament bundling, ATP binding, and NAD(+) hydrolysis, all of which are crucial for anti-phage defense. The SIR2 and NOD domains engage in intra- and inter-dimer interaction to form an individual filament, while the outward C-terminal sensor domains contribute to bundle formation. Filamentation potentially stabilizes the dimeric SIR2 configuration, thereby activating the NADase activity of EfAvs5. Furthermore, we identify the nucleotide kinase gp1.7 of phage T7 as an activator of EfAvs5, demonstrating its ability to induce filamentation and NADase activity. Together, we uncover the filament assembly of Avs5 as a unique mechanism to switch enzyme activities and perform anti-phage defenses.
PXD055742	40069746	Discovery of the antifungal compound ilicicolin K through genetic activation of the ilicicolin biosynthetic pathway in Trichoderma reesei. 	Discovery of a novel antifungal compound, ilicicolin K, through genetic activation of the ilicicolin biosynthetic pathway in Trichoderma reesei	fungi, multi-omics, natural products	BACKGROUND: Given the global rise in antimicrobial resistance, the discovery of novel antimicrobial agents and production processes thereof are of utmost importance. To this end we have activated the gene cluster encoding for the biosynthesis of the potent antifungal compound ilicicolin H in the fungus Trichoderma reesei. While the biosynthetic gene cluster (BGC) is silent under standard cultivation conditions, we achieved BGC activation by genetically overexpressing the transcription factor TriliR. RESULTS: Successful activation was confirmed by RT-qPCR, proteomic and metabolomic analyses. Metabolomic profiling upon BGC expression revealed high-yield production of ilicicolin H. To elucidate the enzymatically highly diverse functionality of this BGC, we employed a combination of overexpression and deletions of individual genes in the BGC. While we hardly observed any of the previously reported side- or shunt products associated with heterologous ilicicolin H expression, we discovered that Trichoderma reesei produces a novel member of the ilicicolin family using a metabolomic molecular networking approach. This new compound, ilicicolin K, is expressed in substantial amounts in the genetically engineered Trichoderma reesei. Ilicicolin K differs from ilicicolin H in its structure by a second hydroxylation of the tyrosine derived phenol and an additional ring formed by an intramolecular ether bridge of the hydroxyl group at the pyridone towards the tyrosine moiety of the molecule. Bioactivity tests of ilicicolin K revealed a strong antifungal activity against Saccharomyces cerevisiae and a moderate activity against the human pathogen Candida auris, an emerging multi-drug resistant fungus. CONCLUSIONS: By activating a silent BGC in T. reesei, we obtained a high-yielding strain for the production of the antifungal compounds ilicicolin H and the novel ilicicolin K. These two compounds share some structural properties and are thus highly likely to act on the fungal cytochrome bc1 complex, a component of the mitochondrial repository chain. However, they possess different bioactive properties, which might suggest that ilicicolin K may overcome certain limitations of ilicicolin H.
PXD051145	40071644	The Aging Substantia Nigra is Characterized by ROS Accumulation Potentially Resulting in Increased Neuroinflammation and Cytoskeletal Remodeling. 	The aging Substantia nigra is characterized by ROS accumulation potentially resulting in a perturbed mitochondrial homeostasis, increased neuroinflammation and cytoskeletal remodelling	DIA, aging, laser microdissection, substantia nigra	Aging is a progressive and irreversible process, serving as the primary risk factor for neurodegenerative disorders. This study aims to identify the molecular mechanisms underlying physiological aging within the substantia nigra, which is primarily affected by Parkinson's disease, and to draw potential conclusions on the earliest events leading to neurodegeneration in this specific brain region. The characterization of essential stages in aging progress can enhance knowledge of the mechanisms that promote the development of Parkinson's disease. To gain a comprehensive overview three study groups are utilized: young individuals (mean age: 28.7 years), middle-aged (mean age: 62.3 years), and elderly individuals (mean age: 83.9 years). Using the proteomic approach, crucial features of physiological aging are able to be identified. These include heightened oxidative stress, enhanced lysosomal degradation, autophagy, remodeling of the cytoskeleton, changes in the structure of the mitochondria, alterations in vesicle transportation, and synaptic plasticity.
PXD058552	40071752	High-Throughput Proteoform Imaging for Revealing Spatial-Resolved Changes in Brain Tissues Associated with Alzheimer's Disease. 	Proteoform Imaging by Combining MALDI MSI and High-sensitivity Top-down Proteomics	mass spectrometry imaging, proteoforms, top-down proteomics	Spatially resolved characterization of proteoforms has substantial potential to significantly advance the understanding of physiological and disease mechanisms. However, challenges remain regarding throughput and coverage. A robust method is developed for high-throughput proteoform imaging (HTPi) by combining matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry imaging (MALDI MSI) and region-specific top-down proteomic analysis. MALDI MSI enables the imaging of proteoforms on tissue sections at a rate of 7 h cm(-2) (100-microm spatial resolution), and the identification sensitivity of the proteoforms is improved by narrow-bore monolithic columns with low adsorption, yielding 366 annotated proteoform images from the mouse brain. The obtained proteoform images reveals differential expression of individual proteoforms across the brain regions, and distinct spatial distribution patterns of various proteoforms generated from a single gene. Given its ability to visualize proteoform, HTPi is further applied to explore spatial pathological changes associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in 5 x FAD mice. 158 annotated proteoform images are obtained in hippocampal regions at 50-microm spatial resolution, illuminating 14 differential proteoforms in the subiculum region and highlighting their significant associations with amyloid-beta pathology in AD. The results highlight the power of HTPi in unraveling the intricate molecular landscape of brain tissues and its potential in elucidating disease mechanisms.
PXD053984	40071814	The Actin-Binding Prolyl-Isomerase Par17 Sustains Its Substrate Selectivity by Interdomain Allostery. 	Cross-Linking MS of Parvulin 14 and 17	cross linking, parvulin, peptidyl-prolyl-cis/trans isomerase	The human peptidyl-prolyl-cis/trans isomerases (PPIases), Parvulin 14 and Parvulin 17, accelerate the cis/trans isomerization of Xaa-Pro moieties within protein sequences. By modulating the respective binding interfaces of their target proteins, they play a crucial role in determining the fate of their substrates within the cell. Although both enzymes share the same amino acid sequence, they have different cellular functions. This difference is due to a 25 residue N-terminal extension present in Par17 but absent in Par14. Using activity assays, NMR spectroscopy, and mass spectrometry, we demonstrate that the N-terminal extension of Par17 determines substrate selectivity by an intramolecular allosteric mechanism and exhibits a target-binding motif that interacts with actin.
PXD052929	40071937	Yeast poly(A)-binding protein (Pab1) controls translation initiation in vivo primarily by blocking mRNA decapping and decay. 	Yeast poly(A)-binding protein (Pab1) controls translation initiation in vivo primarily by blocking mRNA decapping and decay	Pab1, mRNA decay, translation	Poly(A)-binding protein (Pab1 in yeast) is involved in mRNA decay and translation initiation, but its molecular functions are incompletely understood. We found that auxin-induced degradation of Pab1 reduced bulk mRNA and polysome abundance in WT but not in a mutant lacking the catalytic subunit of decapping enzyme (Dcp2), suggesting that enhanced decapping/degradation is a major driver of reduced translation at limiting Pab1. An increased median poly(A) tail length conferred by Pab1 depletion was likewise not observed in the dcp2Delta mutant, suggesting that mRNA isoforms with shorter tails are preferentially decapped/degraded at limiting Pab1. In contrast to findings on mammalian cells, the translational efficiencies (TEs) of many mRNAs were altered by Pab1 depletion; however, these changes were diminished in dcp2Delta cells, suggesting that reduced mRNA abundance is also a major driver of translational reprogramming at limiting Pab1. Thus, assembly of the closed-loop mRNP via PABP-eIF4G interaction appears to be dispensable for wild-type translation of most transcripts at normal mRNA levels. Interestingly, histone mRNAs and proteins were preferentially diminished on Pab1 depletion in DCP2 but not dcp2Delta cells, accompanied by activation of internal cryptic promoters in the manner expected for reduced nucleosome occupancies, implicating Pab1 in post-transcriptional control of histone gene expression.
PXD058833	40073121	Targeting the NPY/NPY1R signaling axis in mutant p53-dependent pancreatic cancer impairs metastasis. 	Targeting the NPY/NPY1R Signaling Axis in Mutant p53-Dependent Pancreatic Cancer Impairs Metastasis	neuropeptide Y, pancreatic cancer	Pancreatic cancer (PC) is a highly metastatic malignancy. More than 80% of patients with PC present with advanced-stage disease, preventing potentially curative surgery. The neuropeptide Y (NPY) system, best known for its role in controlling energy homeostasis, has also been shown to promote tumorigenesis in a range of cancer types, but its role in PC has yet to be explored. We show that expression of NPY and NPY1R are up-regulated in mouse PC models and human patients with PC. Moreover, using the genetically engineered, autochthonous KP(R172H)C mouse model of PC, we demonstrate that pancreas-specific and whole-body knockout of Npy1r significantly decreases metastasis to the liver. We identify that treatment with the NPY1R antagonist BIBO3304 significantly reduces KP(R172H)C migratory capacity on cell-derived matrices. Pharmacological NPY1R inhibition in an intrasplenic model of PC metastasis recapitulated the results of our genetic studies, with BIBO3304 significantly decreasing liver metastasis. Together, our results reveal that NPY/NPY1R signaling is a previously unidentified antimetastatic target in PC.
PXD057275	40073124	Seabirds in crisis: Plastic ingestion induces proteomic signatures of multiorgan failure and neurodegeneration. 	Seabirds in crisis: plastic ingestion induces proteomic signatures of multi-organ failure and neurodegeneration	Microplastics, wildlife	Understanding plastics' harmful impacts on wildlife would benefit from the application of hypothesis agnostic testing commonly used in medical research to detect declines in population health. Adopting a data-driven, proteomic approach, we assessed changes in 745 proteins in a free-living nonmodel organism with differing levels of plastic exposure. Seabird chicks heavily affected by plastic ingestion demonstrated a range of negative health consequences: Intracellular components that should not be found in the blood were frequently detected, indicative of cell lysis. Secreted proteins were less abundant, indicating that the stomach, liver, and kidneys are not functioning as normal. Alarmingly, these signatures included evidence of neurodegeneration in <90-day-old seabird chicks with high levels of ingested plastic. The proteomic signatures reflect the effects of plastic distal to the site of exposure (i.e., the stomach). Notably, metrics commonly used to assess condition in wildlife (such as body mass) do not provide an accurate description of health or the impacts of plastic ingestion.
PXD056126	40073759	A high-resolution N-glycoproteome landscape of aging mouse ovary. 	Quantitative glycoproteomic, proteomic, and phosphoproteomic analysis of aged mouse ovary	aged mouse ovary, glycoproteomic, phosphoproteomic, tissue	Ovarian aging typically precedes the decline of other organ systems, yet its molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Glycosylation as one of the most important protein modifications has been especially unexplored in this context. Here, we present the first high-resolution glycoproteomic landscape of aging mouse ovaries, uncovering site-specific N-glycan signatures across subcellular components such as high proportions of complex glycans, core fucosylation, and LacdiNAc branches at the zone pellucida. We report three major glycosylation alterations in aged ovaries: the frequently changed core-fucosylation associated with cell adhesion and immune responses, the decreased LacdiNAc glycans on zona pellucida (ZP) responsible for fertility decline, and the increased sialylated glycans modified by Neu5Ac and Neu5Gc playing different roles in immune activation and responses. Integrated multi-omic analyses further highlight the unique role of glycosylation, distinct from phosphorylation, in regulating key signaling pathways, antigen processing and presentation, complement coagulation cascades, ROS biosynthetic and metabolic processes, as well as cell death. This study offers a novel glycobiological perspective on ovarian aging, broadening our understanding of its molecular mechanisms beyond traditional multi-omic approaches.
PXD060340	40074079	Dynein light chains 1 and 2 are auxiliary proteins of pH-sensitive Kir4.1 channels. 	Rat Kir4.1 interactome with the particular purpose to identify 10 kDa copurified proteins using LC-MSMS	Full length rat Kir4.1, HEK293 stable cells, LC8 copurification	Inward rectifier Kir4.1 potassium channels are abundantly expressed in cells that are important for electrolyte homeostasis. Dysregulation of Kir4.1 underlies various neurological disorders. Here, through biochemical and structural studies of full-length Kir4.1, we show that dynein light chain 1 and 2 proteins, also as known as LC8, co-purify with Kir4.1 at stoichiometric levels. Direct interaction between Kir4.1 and LC8 is supported by in vitro binding assays and reiterated with native Kir4.1 proteins from mouse brain. Notably, we identify a LC8 binding motif in the unstructured N-terminus of Kir4.1. Among Kir subtypes, the motif is unique to Kir4.1 and is highly conserved between Kir4.1 orthologues. Deletion of the predicted anchoring sequence (DeltaTQT) resulted in loss of LC8 interaction with Kir4.1 N-terminal peptides as well as with full-length Kir4.1, suggesting that the binding site is necessary and sufficient for the interaction. Purified Kir4.1-DeltaTQT mutant proteins exhibited normal channel activity in vitro, whereas WT proteins lost PIP2 activation. Single particle cryo-EM analysis of the full-length proteins revealed extremely heterogeneous particles, indicating deformation from the typical four-fold symmetric conformation. Additional electron density attached to the Kir4.1 tetramer, ascribed to a LC8 dimer, further supports the direct interaction between the two proteins. While the biological implications of this interaction await further elucidation, the strong conservation of the LC8 binding motif suggests its potential importance in the regulation of Kir4.1 channels.
PXD059513	40074836	Proteomic characterization of MET-amplified esophageal adenocarcinomas reveals enrichment of alternative splicing- and androgen signaling-related proteins. 	Proteomic Characterization of MET-Amplified Esophageal Adenocarcinomas Reveals Enrichment of Alternative Splicing- and Androgen Signaling-Related Proteins	Esophageal adenocarcinomas, MET signaling pathway, Oncology, Tumor microenvironment	BACKGROUND: Esophageal adenocarcinomas (EACs) represent an evolving tumor entity with high mortality rates. MET amplification is a recurrent driver in EACs and is associated with decreased patient survival. However, the response to MET inhibitors is limited. Recent studies have identified several mechanisms that lead to resistance against MET inhibitors in different tumor entities. Nonetheless, a characterization of additional vulnerable targets beyond MET has not been conducted in MET-amplified EACs. METHODS: In this study, we determined the MET amplification status in a cohort of more than 900 EACs using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and compared the proteomes of MET-amplified (n = 20) versus non-amplified tumors (n = 39) by mass spectrometry. RESULTS: We identified a phenotype, present in almost all MET-amplified tumors, which shows an enrichment of alternative RNA splicing, and androgen receptor signaling proteins, as well as decreased patient survival. Additionally, our analyses revealed a negative correlation between MET expression and patient survival in MET-amplified EACs, indicating biological heterogeneity with clinical relevance despite the presence of MET amplification as the predominant oncogenic driver. Furthermore, quantitative immunohistochemical analysis of the inflammatory tumor microenvironment showed that an increased percentage of M2 macrophages is associated with lower overall survival in MET-amplified EACs. CONCLUSIONS: Our results provide valuable insights into possible new therapeutic approaches for MET-amplified EACs for further research.
PXD035206	40075679	Proteogenomic Profiling of Treatment-Naive Metastatic Malignant Melanoma. 	Proteogenomics linked to histopathology identifies subtypes and progression biomarkers in malignant melanoma	ProteomeXchange project tag: CPTAC Consortium, cancer, melanoma, metastasis, proteogenomics	BACKGROUND: Melanoma is a highly heterogeneous disease, and a deeper molecular classification is essential for improving patient stratification and treatment approaches. Here, we describe the histopathology-driven proteogenomic landscape of 142 treatment-naive metastatic melanoma samples to uncover molecular subtypes and clinically relevant biomarkers. METHODS: We performed an integrative proteogenomic analysis to identify proteomic subtypes, assess the impact of BRAF V600 mutations, and study the molecular profiles and cellular composition of the tumor microenvironment. Clinical and histopathological data were used to support findings related to tissue morphology, disease progression, and patient outcomes. RESULTS: Our analysis revealed five distinct proteomic subtypes that integrate immune and stromal microenvironment components and correlate with clinical and histopathological parameters. We demonstrated that BRAF V600-mutated melanomas exhibit biological heterogeneity, where an oncogene-induced senescence-like phenotype is associated with improved survival. This led to a proposed mortality risk-based stratification that may contribute to more personalized treatment strategies. Furthermore, tumor microenvironment composition strongly correlated with disease progression and patient outcomes, highlighting a histopathological connective tissue-to-tumor ratio assessment as a potential decision-making tool. We identified a melanoma-associated SAAV signature linked to extracellular matrix remodeling and SAAV-derived neoantigens as potential targets for anti-tumor immune responses. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a comprehensive stratification of metastatic melanoma, integrating proteogenomic insights with histopathological features. The findings may aid in the development of tailored diagnostic and therapeutic strategies, improving patient management and outcomes.
PXD060124	40076448	Transcription Factors Fzc9 and Pdr802 Regulate ATP Levels and Metabolism in Cryptococcus neoformans. 	Alterations in Proteomic and Metabolomic Profiles of Cryptococcus neoformans following Hsl101 and Urk1 Deletion	Cryptococcus neoformans, Hsl101, Kinase, Metabolomics, Urk1	Transcription factors Fzc9 and Pdr802, characterized by their Zn2Cys6 DNA-binding domain, are essential for the virulence of Cryptococcus neoformans in lung and brain infections. Notably, the in vivo roles of Fzc9 and Pdr802 in contributing to the pathogenicity of C. neoformans are not adequately reflected by the phenotypic characteristics observed in vitro. This study investigates the effects of gene deletion of FZC9 or PDR802 on the proteomic and metabolomic profiles of C. neoformans. Using mass spectrometry analysis, we identified significant changes in protein abundance and metabolite levels, particularly in pathways related to ATP synthesis. These findings deepen our understanding of the metabolic roles of Fzc9 and Pdr802, suggesting potential targets for the development of novel therapeutic strategies against C. neoformans infections.
PXD059520	40076480	Retina-Targeted 17beta-Estradiol by the DHED Prodrug Rescues Visual Function and Actuates Neuroprotective Protein Networks After Optic Nerve Crush in a Rat Model of Surgical Menopause. 	Retina-Targeted 17beta-Estradiol by the DHED Prodrug Rescues Visual Function and Actuates Neuroprotective Protein Net-works after Optic Nerve Crush in a Rat Model of Surgical Menopause.  Katalin Prokai-Tatrai, Khadiza Zaman, Ammar Kapic, Kelleigh Hogan , Ga	DHED, bioinformatics, estrogen, glaucoma, menopause, optic nerve crush, optomotor response, protein-protein interaction networks, quantitative label-free retina proteomics	The association between 17beta-estradiol (E2) deprivation, seen in menopause, and a risk for developing glaucoma has been shown. Thus, exogenous supplementation of E2 may protect against retinal ganglion cell (RGC) degradation and vision loss. Here, we investigated the utility of topical 10beta,17beta-dihydroxyestra-1,4-dien-3-one (DHED), a prodrug of E2 that selectively produces the neuroprotective hormone in the retina, on visual function after optic nerve crush (ONC) and ovariectomy (OVX). We used female Brown Norway rats that underwent either Sham or OVX surgeries. After ONC, OVX animals received DHED or vehicle eye drops for 12 weeks. Visual function, via the optomotor reflex, and retinal thickness, via optical coherence tomography, were followed longitudinally. Afterward, we performed mass spectrometry-based label-free retina proteomics to survey retinal protein interaction networks in our selected animal model and to identify E2-responsive proteins after OVX on neurodegeneration. We found that ONC with OVX caused a significant decline in visual functions that were ameliorated by DHED treatments. Discovery-driven retina proteomics identified numerous proteins associated with neurodegenerative processes due to ONC that were remediated by DHED eye drops. Altogether, our three-pronged phenotypic preclinical evaluation of the topical DHED in the OVX + ONC model of glaucoma reveals the therapeutic potential of the prodrug to prevent visual deficits after glaucomatous retinal injury.
PXD058796	40076608	Evaluation of Salt-Tolerant Germplasms and Identification of Salt Tolerance-Related Proteins in Upland Cotton at the Seedling Stage. 	TMT Proteomics in Z9 and E9 under Salt Stress	Salt stress, TMT, Upland cotton	Currently, developing cotton cultivation in saline-alkali soils is a vital focus for restructuring the cotton industry in China. The seedling stage, specifically the three-leaf stage, is a crucial period for assessing the salt tolerance of cotton. This research examined 430 natural populations of upland cotton, including 45 semi-wild germlines of Gossypium purpurascens. We measured the phenotypic responses of salt stress injury on seedlings as well as potassium (K), calcium (Ca), sodium (Na), and magnesium (Mg) concentrations in the roots, stems, and leaves following a 72 h exposure. The comprehensive salt tolerance index (CSTI) was determined using a membership function, principal component analysis, and cluster analysis based on 48 phenotypic traits related to salt tolerance. The results revealed significant variations in the phenotypic traits of the ion group under salt stress. Salt stress greatly affected the relative contents of Mg, K, and Ca ions in the aboveground parts of cotton, and correlations were observed among the 48 indices. The CSTI was calculated using seven principal component indexes, identifying 30 salt-tolerant, 114 weakly salt-tolerant, 39 salt-sensitive, and 4 highly sensitive materials based on cluster analysis. Among the 45 G. purpurascens cotton resources, 28 were weakly salt-tolerant, while 17 were salt-sensitive. Through TMT (Tandem Mass Tag)-based quantitative analysis, we identified 3107 unique peptides among 28,642 detected peptides, resulting in 203,869 secondary mass spectra, with 50,039 spectra successfully matched to peptides. Additionally, we identified several salt tolerance-related pathways (carbon metabolism; glutathione metabolism; the biosynthesis of amino acids, etc.) and proteins classified within the CAZy (Carbohydrate-Active EnZYme) family and expansin proteins. The results of this study concerning salt-tolerant materials provide a crucial theoretical foundation for the identification and evaluation of salt-tolerant breeding parents in cultivated cotton.
PXD058049	40076651	DIA/SWATH-Mass Spectrometry Revealing Melanoma Cell Proteome Transformations with Silver Nanoparticles: An Innovative Comparative Study. 	Revealing Melanoma Cell Proteome Transformations with Silver Nanoparticles: An Innovative Comparative Study	Anti-cancer, DIA MS, Green Nanoparticles, Melanoma, Nanomedicine, SWATH MS, Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs)	Melanoma is an aggressive cancer with rising incidence and high mortality rates, largely due to chemotherapy resistance and molecular dysregulation. Nanotechnology, particularly silver nanoparticles (AgNPs), has emerged as a promising therapeutic avenue because of the nanoparticles' ability to induce oxidative stress and apoptosis in cancer cells. However, conventional colloidal AgNPs lack selectivity, often causing significant damage to healthy cells. In this study, we introduce a green synthesis of AgNPs using plant extracts, providing an eco-friendly alternative with improved antitumor selectivity compared to traditional colloidal AgNPs. Leveraging label-free Data-Independent Acquisition/Sequential Window Acquisition of All Theoretical Mass Spectrometry (DIA/SWATH MS) quantitative proteomics, we investigated the antitumor effects of green-synthesized versus traditional AgNPs on A375 melanoma cells at 24 and 48 h. Our findings reveal that green AgNPs selectively reduced melanoma cell viability while sparing healthy keratinocytes (HaCaT), a benefit not observed with colloidal AgNPs. Proteomic analysis highlighted that green AgNPs significantly downregulated oncogenes, enhanced carbohydrate metabolism, and disrupted copper homeostasis in melanoma cells. This marks the first study to explore the differential effects of green and traditional AgNPs on melanoma using an integrated proteomic approach, underscoring the molecular potential of green AgNPs as a targeted and sustainable option for cancer therapy.
PXD041052	40076796	Vagus Nerve Mediated Liver-Brain-Axis Is a Major Regulator of the Metabolic Landscape in the Liver. 	The role of vagus nerve in liver physiology	Liver, vagus nerve	The liver serves as a major energetic reservoir for other tissues and its metabolic function is controlled by humoral and neural factors. The vagus nerve innervating the gastrointestinal tract plays an important role in regulating peripheral metabolism and energy expenditure. Although the liver receives vagus nerve fibers, the impact of this circuitry in the regulation of hepatic metabolism is still poorly understood. Herein, we used a combination of quantitative proteomics and in vivo imaging techniques to investigate the impact of the vagus nerve on liver metabolism in male mice. Liver-brain axis was impaired by vagotomy (VNX) or knocking down of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT-KD). Mice were challenged with high carbohydrate or high-fat feeding. The vagus nerve shapes the metabolic framework of the liver, as vagotomy led to a significant alteration of the hepatic proteome landscape. Differential protein expression and pathway enrichment analyses showed that glycolytic and fatty acid biosynthesis were increased following VNX, whereas beta-oxidation was decreased. These results were corroborated in VAChT-KD mice. This metabolic shift facilitated lipid accumulation in hepatocytes in mice fed with a standard commercial diet. Furthermore, VNX worsened liver steatosis following high-carbohydrate or high-fat dietary challenges. This study describes the liver-brain axis mediated by the vagus nerve as an important regulator of the hepatic metabolic landscape.
PXD056713	40077452	Integrated Analysis of Transcriptomics and Proteomics Provides Insights into the Accumulation Mechanism of Ascorbic Acid in Rosa roxburghii Tratt. 	Transcriptomic and Proteomic Analysis  Reveal the Accumulation Mechanism of Ascorbic Acid in Rosa roxburghii Tratt	transcriptomic analysis ,proteomic analysis,rosa roxburghii tratt, ascorbic acid	Rosa roxburghii Tratt (RRT) is widely cultivated in Guizhou Province, China. In recent years, RRT has emerged as one of the most promising new fruit crops in China, primarily because of its remarkably high levels of ascorbic acid (AsA). In this research, we assessed the AsA levels in RRT across various growth phases. The findings demonstrate that the AsA concentration in RRT fruits progressively increased in a linear fashion throughout development, peaking at 2274.60 mg/(100 g FW) when the fruit reached maturity (84 DAA). Furthermore, we conducted an integrated analysis of transcriptomic and proteomic data for the first time to investigate the mechanisms responsible for AsA accumulation in RRT. Our results show that differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were primarily associated with the ascorbate and aldarate metabolism pathway, suggesting that this pathway plays a crucial role in regulating AsA accumulation in RRT. This study elucidates the molecular mechanism underlying AsA accumulation in RRT and provides a robust scientific foundation for subsequent research on AsA accumulation in RRT.
PXD058802	40077831	Discovery of RNA-Protein Molecular Clamps Using Proteome-Wide Stability Assays. 	Discovery of RNA-Protein Molecular Clamps Using Proteome-Wide Stability Assays	CETSA, LCMSMS, LiP-MS, PISA, TMTpro	Uncompetitive inhibition is an effective strategy for suppressing dysregulated enzymes and their substrates, but discovery of suitable ligands depends on often-unavailable structural knowledge and serendipity. Hence, despite surging interest in mass spectrometry-based target identification, proteomic studies of substrate-dependent target engagement remain sparse. Herein, we describe a strategy for the discovery of substrate-dependent ligand binding. Using proteome integral solubility alteration (PISA) assays, we show that simple biochemical additives can enable detection of RNA-protein-small molecule complexes in native cell lysates. We apply our approach to rocaglates, molecules that specifically clamp RNA to eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A (eIF4A), DEAD-box helicase 3X (DDX3X), and potentially other members of the DEAD-box (DDX) helicase family. To identify unexpected interactions, we used a target class-specific thermal window and compared ATP analog and RNA base dependencies for key rocaglate-DDX interactions. We report novel DDX targets of high-profile rocaglates-including the clinical candidate Zotatifin-and validate our findings using limited proteolysis-mass spectrometry and fluorescence polarization (FP) experiments. We also provide structural insight into divergent DDX3X affinities between synthetic rocaglates. Taken together, our study provides a model for screening uncompetitive inhibitors using a chemical proteomics approach and uncovers actionable DDX clamping targets, clearing a path toward characterization of novel molecular clamps and associated RNA helicases.
PXD045677	40079330	Myocardial Proteome in Human Heart Failure With Preserved Ejection Fraction. 	Human HFpEF Myocardial Proteomics	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, heart disease, molecular medicine, myocardium, obesity	BACKGROUND: Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) constitutes more than half of all HF but has few effective therapies. Recent human myocardial transcriptomics and metabolomics have identified major differences between HFpEF and controls. How this translates at the protein level is unknown. METHODS AND RESULTS: Myocardial tissue from patients with HFpEF and nonfailing donor controls was analyzed by data-dependent acquisition (n=10 HFpEF, n=10 controls) and data-independent acquisition (n=44 HFpEF, n=5 controls) mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Differential protein expression analysis, pathway overrepresentation, weighted coexpression network analysis, and machine learning were integrated with clinical characteristics and previously reported transcriptomics. Principal component analysis (data-dependent acquisition-mass spectrometry) found HFpEF separated into 2 subgroups: one similar to controls and the other disparate. Downregulated proteins in HFpEF versus controls were enriched in mitochondrial transport/organization, translation, and metabolism including oxidative phosphorylation. Proteins upregulated in HFpEF were related to immune activation, reactive oxygen species, and inflammatory response. Ingenuity pathway analysis predicted downregulation of protein translation, mitochondrial function, and glucose and fat metabolism in HFpEF. Expression of oxidative phosphorylation and metabolism genes (higher) versus proteins (lower) was discordant in HFpEF versus controls. Data-independent acquisition-mass spectrometry proteomics also yielded 2 HFpEF subgroups; the one most different from controls had a higher proportion of patients with severe obesity and exhibited lower proteins related to fuel metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, and protein translation. Three modules of correlated proteins in HFpEF that correlated with left ventricular hypertrophy and right ventricular load related to (1) proteasome; (2) fuel metabolism; and (3) protein translation, oxidative phosphorylation, and sarcomere organization. CONCLUSIONS: Integrative proteomics, transcriptomics, and pathway analysis supports a defect in both metabolism and translation in HFpEF. Patients with HFpEF with more distinct proteomic signatures from control more often had severe obesity, supporting therapeutic efforts targeting metabolism and translation, particularly in this subgroup.
PXD058526	40080546	Structure of human PINK1 at a mitochondrial TOM-VDAC array. 	PINK1-TOM-TIM23 complex SDA XL-MS	PINK1, SDA XL-MS	Mutations in the ubiquitin kinase PINK1 cause early onset Parkinson's Disease, but how PINK1 is stabilized at depolarized mitochondrial translocase complexes has remained poorly understood. We determined a 3.1-Aa resolution cryo-electron microscopy structure of dimeric human PINK1 stabilized at an endogenous array of mitochondrial TOM and VDAC complexes. Symmetric arrangement of two TOM core complexes around a central VDAC2 dimer is facilitated by TOM5 and TOM20, both of which also bind PINK1 kinase C-lobes. PINK1 enters mitochondria through the proximal TOM40 barrel of the TOM core complex, guided by TOM7 and TOM22. Our structure explains how human PINK1 is stabilized at the TOM complex and regulated by oxidation, uncovers a previously unknown TOM-VDAC assembly, and reveals how a physiological substrate traverses TOM40 during translocation.
PXD057373	40081260	Morpholino nicotinamide analogs of ponatinib, dual MNK, p70S6K inhibitors, display efficacy against lung and breast cancers. 	Morpholino nicotinamide analogs of ponatinib, dual MNK, p70S6K inhibitors, display efficacy against lung and breast cancers	MNKi, NSCLC, TNBC, anticancer, kinase inhibitor, p70S6Ki, small molecules	Therapeutic options for aggressive cancer types such as breast and lung remain limited; disease relapse and death occur in 30-60% of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients, whereas in triple-negative breast cancer or TNBC, recurrence-free survival occurs in less than 30% patients. The kinases, MNK and p70S6K have been proposed as targets for the potential treatment of breast cancer (BC) and lung cancer but currently, no drug that was purposely designed to inhibit these kinases have been approved by the FDA for the treatment of BC or NSCLC. In this study, we have identified HSND80 (a morpholino nicotinamide analog of ponatinib) as a potent MNK/p70S6K inhibitor that has excellent activity against TNBC and NSCLC cell lines. HSND80 has a longer target residence time (tau) of 45 mins and 58 mins against MNK1 and MNK2 respectively, compared to tau of eFT508 (tomivosertib) against MNK1 and MNK2 (tau = 1 min and 5 min, respectively). Molecular dynamics simulation was used to provide some insights into the binding of HSND80 to MNK and p70S6K kinases. Western blotting analysis and phosphoproteomics analysis of the TNBC cell line, MDA-MB-231, revealed that phosphorylations of elF4E (MNK target) and elF4B and S6 (p70S6K targets) were reduced upon compound treatment, which is in line with the proposed mechanism of action; dual MNK/p70S6K targeting. HSND80 could be dosed orally at 15 and 30 mg/kg and at such doses, could reduce tumor volume in a syngeneic NSCLC mouse model.
PXD060211	40081538	Proteomics analysis of porcine endometrial cell-derived extracellular vesicles involved in embryo attachment. 	analysis of porcine endometrial cell-derived extracellular vesicles involved in embryo attachment	EV, embryo, pig	Maternal-embryo interactions play a critical role in early mammalian development, with extracellular vesicles (EVs) playing a key role in intercellular communication. Recent studies have focused on the mechanisms by which maternal-derived factors, such as RNA, proteins, and metabolites influence gap junctions, EVs, and direct cell-to-cell interactions, contributing to embryonic development. In this study, using a proteomics approach, we investigated the impact of EVs secreted from porcine endometrial cells (pEECs) and their protein cargoes on embryonic development. We characterized EVs isolated from pEECs (pEEC-EVs) during the diestrus stage using a nanoparticle tracking analysis and cryo-transmission electron microscopy. Furthermore, the effects of pEEC-EVs with or without hormone treatment on the in vitro attachment of hatched blastocysts were evaluated. The attachment rate of porcine embryos was significantly higher for pEEC-EVs in the hormone treatment group than the control group (23.0 +/- 1.7% vs. 36.9 +/- 1.9% for control and pEEC-EVs, respectively). Furthermore, hormone treatment altered the expression of proteins involved in cellular organization, protein transport, and immunity. Proteomic analysis revealed distinct biological processes between groups: control EVs supported cytoskeletal organization and adhesion, while hormone-treated EVs were enriched in protein transport, immune regulation, and stress response pathways. Key signaling pathways, including VEGFA-VEGFR2, focal adhesion, and TGF-beta, were modulated, influencing implantation and embryogenesis. EVs play a crucial role in maternal-embryo interactions, optimizing implantation conditions and supporting embryo-derived stem cell establishment. These findings enhance our understanding of EV-mediated communication and suggest potential applications for improving reproductive health and assisted reproductive technologies.
PXD055964	40081573	Declining activity of serum response factor in aging aorta in relation to aneurysm progression. 	Declining activity of serum response factor in aging arteries in relation to aortic aneurysm initiation and progression	angiotensin, hypertension, leiomodin, myocardin, myosin light chain kinase, smooth muscle gamma-actin	Age is a critical determinant of arterial disease, including aneurysm formation. Here, to understand the impact of aging on the arterial transcriptome, we leveraged RNA-sequencing data to define transcripts that change with advancing age in human arteries. Among the most repressed transcripts in aged individuals were those that are relevant for actomyosin structure and organization, including both myosin light chain kinase (MYLK) and smooth muscle gamma-actin (ACTG2). This was associated with a reduction of serum response factor (SRF), which controls these transcripts via defined promoter elements. To determine the consequences of isolated Srf depletion, we conditionally deleted Srf in vascular smooth muscle of young mice (i8-SRF-KO mice). This led to a reduction of the SRF regulon, including Mylk and Actg2, and impaired arterial contractility, but left endothelial-dependent dilatation unaffected. Srf-depletion also increased aortic diameter and Alcian blue staining of the aortic media, which are cardinal features of aortopathy, such as aortic aneurysmal disease. Despite this, i8-SRF-KO mice were protected from aortic lesions elicited by angiotensin II (AngII). Proteomics demonstrated that Srf-depletion mimicked a protein signature of AngII treatment involving increases of the mechanoresponsive transcriptional co-activators YAP and TAZ and reduction of the Hippo kinase Lats2. Protection from aortopathy could be overcome by changing the order of knockout induction and AngII administration resulting in advanced aneurysms in both i8-SRF-KO and control mice. Our work provides important insights into the molecular underpinnings of age-dependent changes in aortic function and mechanisms of adaptation in hypertension.
PXD060593	40082595	Structural basis for the asymmetric binding of coactivator SRC1 to FXR-RXRalpha and allosteric communication within the complex. 	Structural basis for the asymmetric binding of coactivator SRC1 to FXR-RXRalpha and allosteric communication within the complex	FXR, SRC1, integrative structural biology, nuclear receptors, transcription factors	Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) is a promising target for treatment of metabolic associated fatty liver disease (MAFLD). In this study, we employed an integrative approach to investigate the interaction between FXR-RXRalpha-DNA complex and the entire coactivator SRC1-NRID (nuclear receptor interaction domain). We constructed a multi-domain model of FXR-RXRalpha-DNA, highlighting the interface between FXR-DBD and LBD. Using HDX-MS, XL-MS, and biochemical assays, we revealed the allosteric communications in FXR-RXRalpha-DNA upon agonist and DNA binding. We then demonstrated that SRC1 binds only to the coactivator binding surface of FXR within the FXR-RXRalpha heterodimer, with the NR-box2 and NR-box3 of SRC1 as the key binding motifs. Our findings, which provide the first model of SRC1-NRID in complex with FXR-RXRalpha-DNA, shed light on the molecular mechanism through which the coactivator asymmetrically interacts with nuclear receptors and provide structural basis for further understanding the function of FXR and its implications in diseases.
PXD056514	40082888	Phosphoproteomics identifies determinants of PAK inhibitor sensitivity in leukaemia cells. 	Phosphoproteomics identifies determinants of PAK inhibitor sensitivity in AML cells	Acute Myeloid Leukaemia, Biomarkers, Cancer, Machine Learning, PAK inhibitors, PF-3758309, Phosphoproteomics, kinase inhibitors, target therapy	BACKGROUND: The P21 activated kinases (PAK) are frequently dysregulated in cancer and have central roles in oncogenic signalling, prompting the development of PAK inhibitors (PAKi) as anticancer agents. However, such compounds have not reached clinical use because, at least partially, there is a limited mechanistic understanding of their mode of action. Here, we aimed to characterize functional and molecular responses to PAKi (PF-3758309, FRAX-486 and IPA-3) in multiple acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) models to gain insights on the biochemical pathways affected by these inhibitors in this disease and identify determinants of response in patient samples. METHODS: We mined phosphoproteomic datasets of primary AML, and used proteomics and phosphoproteomics to profile PAKi impact in immortalized (P31/Fuj and MV4-11), and primary AML cells from 8 AML patients. These omics datasets were integrated with gene dependency data to identify which proteins targeted by PAKi are necessary for the proliferation of AML. We studied the effect PAKi on cell cycle progression, proliferation, differentiation and apoptosis. Finally, we used phosphoproteomics data as input for machine learning models that predicted ex vivo response in two independent datasets of primary AML cells (with 36 and 50 cases, respectively) to PF-3758309 and identify markers of response. RESULTS: We found that PAK1 activation- measured from phosphoproteomics data- was predictive of poor prognosis in primary AML cases. PF-3758309 was the most effective PAKi in reducing proliferation and inducing apoptosis in AML cell lines. In cell lines and primary cells, PF-3758309 inhibited PAK, AMPK and PKCA activities, reduced c-MYC transcriptional activity and the expression of ribosomal proteins, and targeted the FLT3 pathway in FLT3-ITD mutated cells. In primary cells, PF-3758309 reduced STAT5 phosphorylation at Tyr699. Functionally, PF-3758309 reduced cell-growth, induced apoptosis, blocked cell cycle progression and promoted differentiation in a model-dependent manner. ML modelling accurately classified primary AML samples as sensitive or resistant to PF-3758309 ex vivo treatment, and highlighted PHF2 phosphorylation at Ser705 as a robust response biomarker. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, our data define the proteomic, molecular and functional responses of primary and immortalised AML cells to PF-3758309 and suggest a route to personalise AML treatments based on PAK inhibitors.
PXD051379	40083683	Dysregulation of N-glycosylation by Rpn1 knockout in spermatocytes induces male infertility via endoplasmic reticulum stress in mice. 	Dysregulation of N-glycosylation by RPN1 knockout in spermatocytes induces male infertility via impaired mitochondrial function in mice	Fertility, Meiosis, N-glycosylation, RPN1, Spermatogenesis	N-glycosylation protein modification plays a crucial regulatory role in numerous biological processes, although their contribution to male reproduction in mammals remains largely undefined. Here, we found that Ribophorin I (RPN1), a subunit of oligosaccharyltransferase complex, is indispensable for spermatogenesis in male germ cells. Germ cell-specific Rpn1 knockout results in significant inhibition of the progression of meiosis, consequently disrupting homologous chromosome pairing, meiotic recombination, and DNA double strand breaks repair during meiosis. N-glycoproteomic profiling revealed that glycosylation levels are reduced in endoplasmic reticulum-associated proteins, while functional analyses showed that Rpn1 deficiency could inhibit endoplasmic reticulum function and trigger endoplasmic reticulum stress during meiosis and increasing apoptosis levels in mice. These findings highlight the essential physiological functions of N-glycosylation modification in male spermatogenesis and expand our understanding of its role in male fertility.
PXD054900	40085221	Long-term CSF responses in adult patients with spinal muscular atrophy type 2 or 3 on treatment with nusinersen. 	Longitudinal Proteomic Fingerprinting in CSF of Nusinersen-Treated Patients with 5q-Associated Spinal Muscular Atrophy	CSF, SMA, TMT, cerebrospinal fluid, nusinersen, spinal muscle atrophy	BACKGROUND: 5q-associated spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a monogenic disease causing progressive alpha motor neuron degeneration, muscle atrophy, and weakness. Intrathecal therapy with the antisense oligonucleotide nusinersen modifies the disease course. However, biomarkers for understanding underlying molecular pathomechanisms and monitoring therapy are not yet known. METHODS: A total of 130 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from 24 adult patients with SMA type 2 or 3 were collected over 3.5 years, and CSF proteome was analyzed using mass spectrometry (MS). By applying two complementary MS protein quantification methods, label-free quantification (LFQ) and tandem mass tag (TMT) isotopic labeling, specific protein patterns reflecting changes in the CSF in response to nusinersen therapy were identified. These results were combined with cellular and metabolic profiles. RESULTS: Nusinersen therapy led to a median motor function improvement of 2.2 Hammersmith Functional Motor Scale-Expanded points after 10 months and 2.6 points after 34 months. CSF macrophages increased in number and showed an altered morphology. Albumin quotient (qAlb), glucose, and lactate concentrations were inversely correlated with clinical improvement. MS analysis of CSF identified 1,674 (TMT) and 441 (LFQ) proteins. Protein profiles reflected reduced inhibition of "nervous system development" and "axogenesis" pathways under therapy. In addition, clinical improvement was associated with upregulation of the interacting proteins alpha-dystroglycan and beta-1,4-glucuronyltransferase 1, reduction of complement factors, negative correlation in immunoglobulin- and B cell-related pathways, and reduction of cellular mediators such as lymphocytes. CONCLUSION: The present multi-proteomic analysis contributes to the understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying nusinersen's therapeutic effects and offers potential biomarkers for monitoring treatment response in SMA.
PXD053582	40085700	Protein misfolding involving entanglements providesa structural explanation for the origin of stretched-exponential refolding kinetics. 	Protein misfolding involving entanglements provides a structural explanation for the origin of stretched-exponential refolding kinetics	crosslinking mass spectrometry, folding, stretched-exponential  kinetics	Stretched-exponential protein refolding kinetics, first observed decades ago, were attributed to a nonnative ensemble of structures with parallel, non-interconverting folding pathways. However, the structural origin of the large energy barriers preventing interconversion between these folding pathways is unknown. Here, we combine simulations with limited proteolysis (LiP) and cross-linking (XL) mass spectrometry (MS) to study the protein phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK). Simulations recapitulate its stretched-exponential folding kinetics and reveal that misfolded states involving changes of entanglement underlie this behavior: either formation of a nonnative, noncovalent lasso entanglement or failure to form a native entanglement. These misfolded states act as kinetic traps, requiring extensive unfolding to escape, which results in a distribution of free energy barriers and pathway partitioning. Using LiP-MS and XL-MS, we propose heterogeneous structural ensembles consistent with these data that represent the potential long-lived misfolded states PGK populates. This structural and energetic heterogeneity creates a hierarchy of refolding timescales, explaining stretched-exponential kinetics.
PXD058785	40086445	Metabolic remodeling in hiPSC-derived myofibers carrying the m.3243A>G mutation. 	Metabolic remodelling in hiPSC-derived myofibres carrying the m.3243A>G mutation	iPSC-derived myofibres, mitochondria, mtDNA, mtDNA mutations	Mutations in mitochondrial DNA cause severe multisystem disease frequently associated with muscle weakness. The m.3243A>G mutation is the major cause of mitochondrial encephalomyopathy lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS). Experimental models that recapitulate the disease phenotype in vitro for disease modeling or drug screening are very limited. We have therefore generated hiPSC-derived muscle fibers with variable heteroplasmic mtDNA mutation load without significantly affecting muscle differentiation potential. The cells exhibit physiological characteristics of muscle fibers and show a well-organized myofibrillar structure. In cells carrying the m.3243A>G mutation, the mitochondrial membrane potential and oxygen consumption were reduced in relation to the mutant load. We have shown through proteomic, phosphoproteomic, and metabolomic analyses that the m.3243A>G mutation variably affects the cell phenotype in relation to the mutant load. This variation is reflected by an increase in the NADH/NAD(+) ratio, which in turn influences key nutrient-sensing pathways in the myofibers. This model enables a detailed study of the impact of the mutation on cellular bioenergetics and on muscle physiology with the potential to provide a platform for drug screening.
PXD051727	40086876	Developmentally regulated proteolysis by MdfA and ClpCP mediates metabolic differentiation during Bacillus subtilis sporulation. 	Proteomics of mature Bacillus subtilis spores in wild-type and mdfA deletion strains	acillus subtilis, metabolic differentiation, sporulation	Bacillus subtilis sporulation entails a dramatic transformation of the two cells required to assemble a dormant spore, with the larger mother cell engulfing the smaller forespore to produce the "cell within a cell" structure that is a hallmark of endospore formation. Sporulation also entails metabolic differentiation, whereby key metabolic enzymes are depleted from the forespore but maintained in the mother cell. This reduces the metabolic potential of the forespore, which becomes dependent on mother cell metabolism and the SpoIIQ-SpoIIIA channel to obtain metabolic building blocks necessary for development. We demonstrate that metabolic differentiation depends on the ClpCP protease and a forespore-produced protein encoded by the yjbA gene, which we have renamed MdfA (metabolic differentiation factor A). MdfA is conserved in aerobic endospore formers and required for spore resistance to hypochlorite. Using mass spectrometry and quantitative fluorescence microscopy, we show that MdfA mediates the depletion of dozens of metabolic enzymes and key transcription factors from the forespore. An accompanying study by Massoni and colleagues demonstrates that MdfA is a ClpC adaptor protein that directly interacts with and stimulates ClpCP activity. Together, these results document a developmentally regulated proteolytic pathway that reshapes forespore metabolism, reinforces differentiation, and enhances spore resistance to the oxidant hypochlorite.
PXD057407	40087212	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic signatures of aging mouse liver. 	Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Signatures of Aging Mouse Liver	Aging, Kinases, Liver, Oxidative Phosphorylation, Phosphoproteomics, Phosphosites	The liver is a metabolic powerhouse, crucial for regulating carbohydrates, fats, and protein metabolism. In this study, we conducted a comparative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analysis of aging mouse livers from young adults (3-4 months) and old (19-21 months) mice to identify age-related changes in liver proteins and phosphosites, which were linked to various metabolic pathways. In old mice, proteins associated with the "complement and coagulation cascade," "age-rage signaling in diabetic complications," and "biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids" were increased, while those linked to "oxidative phosphorylation," "steroid hormone biosynthesis," and "tryptophan metabolism" were decreased. Interestingly, aging was marked by a significant decrease in liver protein phosphorylation, with nearly 90% of significant phosphosites being downregulated. Pathway analysis of the downregulated phosphosites highlighted connections to "non-small cell lung cancer," "lysine degradation," "cell differentiation," and "glycerophospholipid metabolism." Decreased phosphorylation of several kinases that are linked to cell proliferation, particularly those in the MAPK signaling pathway, including Erk1, EGFR, RAF1, and BRAF was also observed highlighting their important role in the liver. This study identified an important relationship between proteins, phosphosites, and their connections to known as well as new pathways, expanding upon our current knowledge and providing a basis for future studies focused on age-related metabolic traits.
PXD058215	40087613	Transcriptomic and proteomic-based analysis of the mechanisms by which drought and salt stresses affect the quality of Isatidis Folium. 	TMT-based Quantitative analysis of Isatis indigotica leaf tissue	Isatis indigotica, LC-MS, TMT, leaf tissue	Isatidis Folium, derived from the dried leaves of Isatis indigotica Fort., has been used for centuries as a traditional Chinese herb with antibacterial and antiviral properties. However, heterogeneity in cultivation conditions and climatic variations poses challenges to accurately and effectively evaluate its quality. Current quality control methods cannot provide a comprehensive and effective identification of herbal quality and preparation efficacy. This study aimed to investigate the impact of different environmental factors on the biosynthesis and accumulation of medicinal components and identify biomarker genes and functional proteins associated with abiotic stress responses of Isatis indigotica Fort. We proposed evaluating the quality of Isatidis Folium based on multi-component quantitative analysis and integrating transcriptomic, proteomic, and physiological indicators to elucidate the mechanisms of herbal quality variation. The results revealed that abiotic stress conditions significantly altered the levels of bioactive constituents, physiological indices, and specific genes and proteins. Notably, biological pathways such as porphyrin metabolism, photosynthesis, and carbon fixation by photosynthetic organisms were implicated in phototoxicity within the photosystem under abiotic stresses. Biological pathways related to indole metabolism, specifically phenylalanine, tyrosine, and tryptophan synthesis, tryptophan metabolism, and indole alkaloid synthesis, were recognized as critical regulatory networks modulating indole alkaloid content. Candidate biomarkers such as HemB, PsbB, RBS2, RIBA2, TRPA, and TRPB were identified as potential factors of quality deterioration under adverse conditions. Based on the integration of chemical analysis and multi-omics techniques, a new hierarchical quality control scenario for Isatidis Folium was finally proposed, providing a research foundation for the innovation-driven development of traditional Chinese medicine.
PXD058364	40088196	Impact of intermittent high-dose radon exposures on lung epithelial cells: proteomic analysis and biomarker identification. 	The proteomic analysis of human lung epithelial cells exposed with or without radon	A549 cells, radon	Lung cancer is the most prevalent cancer worldwide, and radon exposure is ranked as the second risk factor after cigarette smoking. It has been reported that radon induces deoxyribonucleic acid damage and oxidative stress in cells. However, the protein profile and potential biomarkers for early detection of radon-induced lung cancer remain unknown. In this study, we aimed to investigate the effects of intermittent high-dose radon exposure on lung epithelial cells, analyze protein profiles and identify potential biomarkers for diagnosis of radon-related lung cancer. Human lung epithelial cells (A549) were exposed to radon (1000 Bq/m3) for 30 min daily for 7 days. Cell viability was measured using the WST-1 assay, and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry proteomic analysis was performed. Differentially expressed proteins and gene ontology (GO) enrichment were analyzed. Our findings showed that intermittent high-radon exposure reduced A549 cell viability over time. Proteomic analysis identified proteins associated with stressed-induced apoptosis, mitochondrial adaptation, nuclear integrity and lysosomal degradation. These proteins are related to catabolism, stress response, gene expression and metabolic processes in the biological process of GO analysis. We highlighted specific proteins, including AKR1B1, CDK2, DAPK1, PRDX1 and ALHD2 with potential as biomarkers for radon-related lung cancer. In summary, intermittent high-dose radon exposure affects cellular adaptions of lung epithelial cells including stress-induced apoptosis, mitochondrial dysfunctions and immune regulation. The identified proteins may serve as diagnostic biomarkers or therapeutic targets for radon-related lung cancer.
PXD053470	40089065	Ca(2+)-triggered (de)ubiquitination events in synapses. 	Calcium-triggered (de)ubiquitination events in synapses	CaMKIIalpha, phosphorylation, synapse, ubiquitination	Neuronal communication relies on neurotransmitter release from synaptic vesicles (SVs), whose dynamics are controlled by Ca(2+)-dependent pathways, as many thoroughly studied phosphorylation cascades. However, little is known about other post-translational modifications, as ubiquitination. To address this, we analysed resting and stimulated synaptosomes (isolated synapses) by quantitative mass spectrometry. We identified more than 5,000 ubiquitination sites on ~2,000 proteins, the majority of which participate in SV recycling processes. Several proteins showed significant changes in ubiquitination in response to Ca(2+) influx, with the most pronounced changes in CaMKIIalpha and the clathrin adaptor protein AP180. To validate this finding, we generated a CaMKIIalpha mutant lacking the ubiquitination target site (K291) and analysed it both in neurons and non-neuronal cells. K291 ubiquitination, close to an important site for CaMKIIalpha autophosphorylation (T286), influences the synaptic function of this kinase. We suggest that ubiquitination in response to synaptic activity is an important regulator of synaptic function.
PXD057053	40089459	CKMT1 deficiency contributes to mitochondrial dysfunction and promotes intestinal epithelial cell apoptosis via reverse electron transfer-derived ROS in colitis. 	proteome sequencing for the colon tissues of mice with ckmt1 knockout	DSS-induced model, IBD, colon, mice, proteome sequencing	Mitochondrial dysfunction contributes to the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis (UC). As a mitochondrial isozyme of creatine kinases, which control energy metabolism, CKMT1 is thought to be a critical molecule in biological processes. However, the specific role of CKMT1 in intestinal inflammation remains largely unknown. Here, we observed markedly decreased CKMT1 expression in the colon tissues of UC patients and dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis mice. We generated intestinal epithelial-specific CKMT1 knockout mice and demonstrated the key role of CKMT1 in mitochondrial homeostasis, intestinal epithelial barrier function, oxidative stress, and apoptosis. In the in vitro experiments, CKMT1 expression limited the activation of the intrinsic and extrinsic apoptotic pathways in IECs. Mechanistically, the loss of CKMT1 expression in IECs increased TNF-alpha-induced mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation via reverse electron transfer (RET). RET-ROS promoted mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) opening, ultimately resulting in cell apoptosis during intestinal inflammation. In conclusion, our data demonstrated that CKMT1 is important in maintaining intestinal homeostasis and mitochondrial function. This study provides a promising basis for future research and a potential therapeutic target for inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
PXD055994	40089460	Superior preclinical efficacy of co-treatment with BRG1/BRM and FLT3 inhibitor against AML cells with FLT3 mutations. 	Project title: Effect of FHD-286 or BRG1/BRM degrader AU15330 on protein expressions in MLL1-rearranged AML cells	AU15330, Chromatin, FHD-286, PROTAC	Although treatment with standard frontline therapies, including a FLT3 inhibitor (FLT3i) reduces AML burden and achieves clinical remissions, most patients with AML with FLT3 mutation relapse due to therapy-resistant stem/progenitor cells. The core ATPases, BRG1 (SMARCA4) and BRM (SMARCA2) of the canonical (c) BAF (BRG1/BRM-associated factor) complex is a dependency in AML cells, including those harboring FLT3 mutations. We have previously reported that treatment with FHD-286, a BRG1/BRM ATPases inhibitor, induces differentiation and loss of viability of AML stem/progenitor cells. Findings of present studies demonstrate that treatment with FHD-286 induces lethality in AML cells, regardless of sensitivity or resistance to FLT3i. This efficacy is associated with the induction of gene-expression perturbations responsible for growth inhibition, differentiation, as well as a reduced AML-initiating potential of the AML cells. Additionally, co-treatment with FHD-286 and FLT3i exerts superior pre-clinical efficacy against AML cells and patient-derived (PD) xenograft (PDX) models of AML with FLT3 mutations.
PXD056926	40089477	Aggregation induced emission luminogen bacteria hybrid bionic robot for multimodal phototheranostics and immunotherapy. 	Fusing Engineered Bacterial Strains with NIR-II AIEgen for Multimodal Image-guided Phototherapy and Immunotherapy	Aggregation-induced emission, Bacteria, Bionic Robot, Immunotherapy, Phototheranostics	Multimodal phototheranostics utilizing single molecules offer a "one-and-done" approach, presenting a convenient and effective strategy for cancer therapy. However, therapies based on conventional photosensitizers often suffer from limitations such as a single photosensitizing mechanism, restricted tumor penetration and retention, and the requirement for multiple irradiations, which significantly constrain their application. In this report, we present an aggregation-induced emission luminogen (AIEgen) bacteria hybrid bionic robot to address above issues. This bionic robot is composed of multifunctional AIEgen (INX-2) and Escherichia coli Nissle 1917 (EcN), i.e., EcN@INX-2. The EcN@INX-2 bionic robot exhibits near-infrared II (NIR-II) fluorescence emission and demonstrates efficient photodynamic and photothermal effects, as well as tumor-targeting capabilities. These features are facilitated by the complementary roles of INX-2 and EcN. The robot successfully enables in vivo multimodal imaging and therapy of colon cancer models in female mice through various mechanisms, including the activation of anti-tumor immunity, as well as photodynamic and photothermal therapy. Our study paves an avenue for designing multifunctional diagnostic agents for targeted colon cancer therapy through image-guided combinational immunotherapy.
PXD058390	40089509	Regulation of acetyl-CoA biosynthesis via an intertwined acetyl-CoA synthetase/acetyltransferase complex. 	Pausing protein acetylation by an Ac-CoA synthetase/acetyltransferase complex.	AcsA, AcuA, HDX-MS, Protein acetylation, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), cryo-EM	Acetyl-CoA synthetase (Acs) generates acetyl-coenzyme A (Ac-CoA) but its excessive activity can deplete ATP and lead to a growth arrest. To prevent this, Acs is regulated through Ac-CoA-dependent feedback inhibition executed by Ac-CoA-dependent acetyltransferases such as AcuA in Bacillus subtilis. AcuA acetylates the catalytic lysine of AcsA turning the synthetase inactive. Here, we report that AcuA and AcsA form a tightly intertwined complex - the C-terminal domain binds to acetyltransferase domain of AcuA, while the C-terminus of AcuA occupies the CoA-binding site in the N-terminal domain of AcsA. Formation of the complex reduces AcsA activity in addition to the well-established acetylation of the catalytic lysine 549 in AcsA which we show can disrupt the complex. Thus, different modes of regulation accomplished through AcuA adjust AcsA activity to the concentrations of the different substrates of the reaction. In summary, our study provides detailed mechanistic insights into the regulatory framework underlying acetyl-CoA biosynthesis from acetate.
PXD058799	40089621	Structural basis of thymidine-rich DNA recognition by Drosophila P75 PWWP domain. 	Cross-link of Drosophila P75 dimer	Drosophila P75, PWWP, cross-link, dimer, protein-DNA complex	Drosophila P75 (dP75), a homolog of the human LEDGF/p75, is crucial for oogenesis by recruiting the histone kinase Jil-1 to euchromatin and impeding H3K9me2 spreading. Like LEDGF, dP75 binds transcriptionally active chromatin, but its precise mechanism remains unclear. Here we show that its PWWP domain prefers binding to thymidine-rich DNA over GC-rich sequences. Crystal structures both in apo and ssDNA-bound states, reveal a domain-swapped homodimer. The aromatic cage, known to recognize histone methyllysine, also engages thymine. Mutations in this cage mimic dP75 knockout phenotypes, including impaired chromatin binding, transposon upregulation, and female sterility. Although dP75 maintains chromatin-bound in H3K36A mutant flies, alterations in the aromatic cage disrupt this localization, underscoring its role in DNA binding. These findings reveal how dP75 targets euchromatin through a PWWP domain that integrates histone reading and nucleotide recognition, advancing our understanding of PWWP domains.
PXD054072	40090003	The neutrophil antigen 3a/b polymorphism in SLC44A2 unexpectedly encodes Csa/Csb red cell antigens. 	Proteomic analysis of Red blood cells membrane	Red blood cells, label free, membrane proteins, nLC-MS/MS	The Csa blood group antigen was identified more than 50 years ago but its genetic basis has yet to be elucidated. All our recent genomic investigation has failed to resolve the genetic basis of this enigmatic antigen. By investigating the association of the HNA-3a/b polymorphism (rs2288904-G/A) in SLC44A2 with clinical features of Sickle Cell Disease (SCD), we incidentally discovered that rare subjects with the homozygous HNA-3b/b genotype also carry the uncommon Cs(a-) phenotype. We genotyped this SNP in a cohort of 25 Cs(a-) subjects and found that all of them showed a HNA-3b/b genotype. This result suggests that the high-prevalence allele with rs2288904 (HNA-3a; 455G) encoding Arg152 encodes the high-prevalence Csa. Accordingly, anti-Csa does not react with SLC44A2null RBCs, SLC44A2 knockout K562 cells, and K562 cells expressing HNA-3b, confirming that the Csa and Csb antigens are carried on this protein. Furthermore, mass spectrometry analysis of SLC44A2 from neutrophils and RBCs, along with serological investigation, showed that, despite HNA-3a and Csa having the same genetic basis, anti-HNA-3a and anti-Csa recognize different epitopes on the SLC44A2 protein. Overall, our data resolve the genetic bases of the Cs(a-) and Cs(b-) blood phenotypes, with new insights on the anti-HNA-3a specificity.
PXD049048	40090586	A conserved phosphorylation mechanism for regulating the interaction between the CMG replicative helicase and its forked DNA substrate. 	Conserved phosphorylation mechanism regulates the interaction between the Cdc45-MCM2-7-GINS (CMG) replicative helicase complex and its forked DNA substrate	CMG, Chk1, MCM2-7	The CMG helicase is a crucial enzyme complex that plays a vital role in the replication of genomic DNA in eukaryotes. Besides unwinding the DNA template and coordinating the replisome's structure, it is also a key target for signaling pathways that regulate the replication process. We show that a specific serine/threonine residue in the MCM3 subunit of CMG, which has been previously linked to phosphorylation-dependent control mechanisms of genomic DNA replication in human cells, is a conserved phosphorylation site for Chk1 and potentially other protein kinases. This suggests a conserved regulatory mechanism associated with it in metazoans and several other eukaryotes, including budding yeast. Our in vitro analysis links this mechanism directly to the modulation of the CMG helicase activity by impacting its interactions with the forked DNA substrate. Further supporting its conserved role in regulation, we found that phosphomimetic substitution with aspartic acid and alanine knock-out of this conserved residue lead to opposite phenotypic defects in the growth of budding yeast cells. These findings outline a candidate conserved phosphorylation pathway for regulating genomic DNA replication in eukaryotes, which adjusts the interactions between the replicative helicase complex and its DNA substrate according to the specific needs of various physiological conditions.
PXD059275	40090947	Targeting tumor-intrinsic S100 calcium-binding protein A1 augments antitumor immunity and potentiates immunotherapy efficacy. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of S100A1-interacting proteins	S100A1, Tumor	Immune checkpoint blockade (ICB) has revolutionized cancer treatment, but the therapeutic response is highly heterogeneous, which highlights the necessity for developing predictive biomarkers and overcoming ICB resistance. Cancer cell-intrinsic features, especially those that can be dynamically monitored via liquid biopsy, represent a broader scope for biomarker development. In addition, a potential mode of ICB resistance is tumor-intrinsic mechanisms leading to an immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment (TME). However, the underlying interactive network remains elusive, and the generalizable biomarkers and targeting strategies are still lacking. Here, we uncovered the potential of plasma S100 calcium-binding protein A1 (S100A1) for determining ICB efficacy via liquid biopsy of patients with lung cancer. Multiomics and functional studies have suggested that tumor-intrinsic S100A1 expression correlated with an immunologically "cold" TME and resistance to ICB in multiple syngeneic murine tumors and tissue samples from patients with lung cancer. Mechanistic investigations demonstrated that interfering with the tumor-intrinsic S100A1/ubiquitin-specific protease 7/p65/granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) modulatory axis could potentiate an inflamed TME by promoting M1-like macrophage polarization and T cell function. GM-CSF priming was sufficient to enhance the ICB response in tumors with high S100A1 expression in preclinical models. These findings define S100A1 as a potential blood-based biomarker and a novel synergistic target for cancer immunotherapy.
PXD054120	40091075	Investigating synthetic lethality and PARP inhibitor resistance in pancreatic cancer through enantiomer differential activity. 	Investigating Synthetic Lethality and PARP Inhibitor Resistance in Pancreatic Cancer Through Enantiomer Differential Activity	Anticancer drugs, Homologous recombination, PARP inhibitors, PARPi resistance, Protein-protein small molecule inhibitors, within-pathway synthetic lethality (wpSL)	The RAD51-BRCA2 interaction is central to DNA repair through homologous recombination. Emerging evidence indicates RAD51 overexpression and its correlation with chemoresistance in various cancers, suggesting RAD51-BRCA2 inhibition as a compelling avenue for intervention. We previously showed that combining olaparib (a PARP inhibitor (PARPi)) with RS-35d (a BRCA2-RAD51 inhibitor) was efficient in killing pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) cells. However, RS-35d impaired cell viability even when administered alone, suggesting potential off-target effects. Here, through multiple, integrated orthogonal biological approaches in different 2D and 3D PDAC cultures, we characterised RS-35d enantiomers, in terms of mode of action and single contributions. By differentially inhibiting both RAD51-BRCA2 interaction and sensor kinases ATM, ATR and DNA-PK, RS-35d enantiomers exhibit a 'within-pathway synthetic lethality' profile. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first reported proof-of-concept single small molecule capable of demonstrating this built-in synergism. In addition, RS-35d effect on BRCA2-mutated, olaparib-resistant PDAC cells suggests that this compound may be effective as an anticancer agent possibly capable of overcoming PARPi resistance. Our results demonstrate the potential of synthetic lethality, with its diversified applications, to propose new and concrete opportunities to effectively kill cancer cells while limiting side effects and potentially overcoming emerging drug resistance.
PXD056224	40091299	Development and Validation of a Capillary Electrophoresis Coupled to Mass Spectrometry Pipeline for Comparable Assessment of the Plasma Peptidome. 	Development of a capillary electrophoresis coupled to mass spectrometry pipeline for comparable assessment of the plasma peptidome	CE-MS/MS, biomarkers, cardiovascular diseases, chronic kidney disease, peptidome, plasma	Although capillary electrophoresis coupled to mass spectrometry (CE-MS) holds promise for urinary peptide profiling, only a limited number of studies have used CE-MS to study plasma peptides. Here we describe the establishment of a workflow, including sample preparation, CE-MS analysis, data processing and normalization optimized for the analysis of plasma peptides. Using 291 plasma samples from 136 patients with end stage kidney failure (including pre- and post-dialysis samples) and 20 patients with chronic kidney disease, we identified and quantified the abundance of 3920 unique plasma peptides. The repeatability and intermediate precision of the analysis were high (with a coefficient of variation of 5% on average for all peptides). Six hundred sixty-one out of 3920 peptides were sequenced by CE-MS/MS. These peptide fragments belonged to 135 parent proteins. Using the pipeline, we identified 169 sequenced plasma peptides with different plasma abundance pre- and post-dialysis. These peptides combined in a support vector machine (SVM) classifier successfully discriminated between pre- and post-dialysis samples in a blinded validation cohort of 45 dialysis patients. Enriched peptides post-dialyses were for the major part associated to inflammation and the coagulation contact systems that may serve as signatures for optimizing dialysis materials. In conclusion, this high-throughput strategy focuses on the plasma peptidome, an understudied component of the plasma, as a promising area for further exploration. Due to their close proximity to the vascular bed, plasma peptides hold significant potential to serve as reliable biomarkers for systemic complications associated with kidney disease.
PXD042633	40091361	Mitofusin 1 Drives Preimplantation Development by Enhancing Chromatin Incorporation of Histone H3.3. 	Mass spectrometry of clinically-discarded preimplantation embryos	Homo sapiens, embryo	Mitofusin 1 (MFN1) plays a crucial role in mitochondrial fusion and oocyte development. However, its function in preimplantation embryonic development and its potential involvement in epigenetic regulation remain poorly understood. In this study, it is shown that MFN1 interacts with PADI6, a key component of the cytoplasmic lattice in oocytes and early embryos. MFN1 deficiency in mice results in reduced PADI6 levels and decreased expression of translational machinery components, which suppress protein synthesis activity and lower histone H3.3 abundance. These disruptions lead to the failure of male pronucleus formation, aberrant zygotic genome activation, and impaired embryonic development. It is further demonstrated that the MFN1 activator S89 promotes H3.3 incorporation and rescues early development in maternally aged embryos with low MFN1 levels. Additionally, a positive correlation between MFN1 and H3.3 protein levels in early human embryos is observed. Together, these findings provide new insights into MFN1's role in regulating epigenetic reprogramming during preimplantation embryo development.
PXD042101	40091455	Potential Role of Menstrual Fluid-Derived Small Extracellular Vesicle Proteins in Endometriosis Pathogenesiss. 	Menstrual fluid-derived extracellular vesicles as a non-invasive diagnostic tool for endometriosis	Menstrual fluid, endometriosis, extracellular vesicles, non-invasive diagnosis	Endometriosis, a chronic debilitating disease affects 1 in 7-10 girls and women, who have symptoms of severe chronic pain and subfertility and significantly impacts the overall quality of life. Currently, no effective early diagnostic methods are available for early stages of endometriosis. We used menstrual fluid-derived small extracellular vesicles (MF-sEVs) from women with self-reported endometriosis (laparoscopically diagnosed, n = 8) and self-reported without endometriosis and no painful periods (n = 9). MF-sEVs were separated using differential ultracentrifugation and characterised using nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), Western Blot, flow cytometry, mass-proteomics analysis and functional assays. Spherical-shaped sEVs were identified with a median diameter of ~120 nm, expressing sEV marker proteins. The MF-sEV proteins were classified as endometrial origin. Over 5000 proteins were identified, ~77% of which were decreased whilst only 22 proteins (largely comprising immunoglobulins) were increased in endometriosis/MF-sEVs compared to control/MF-sEVs. Decreased proteins were involved in nitrogen compound metabolism, immune response, intracellular signal transduction, regulation of programmed cell death, maintenance of cell polarity and actin cytoskeleton organisation. Flow cytometry demonstrated a significant increase in CD86 expression (immune activation marker) in endometriosis/MF-sEVs. Mesothelial cells showed a significant decrease in cellular resistance and junctional protein expression. MF-sEVs are possible contributors to the pathogenesis of endometriosis and may have the potential for early detection of the disease.
PXD059364	40091835	Targeting ubiquitin-independent proteasome with small molecule increases susceptibility in pan-KRAS-mutant cancer models. 	Targeting ubiquitin-independent proteasome with small molecule increases susceptibility in pan-KRAS mutant cancers	NRF2, REGgamma-proteasome, drug resistance, pan-KRAS mutant cancers, small molecule inhibitor, the ubiquitin-independent proteasome inhibition, therapeutic target	Despite advances in the development of direct KRAS inhibitors, KRAS-mutant cancers continue to exhibit resistance to the currently available therapies. Here, we identified REGgamma as a mutant KRAS-associated factor that enhanced REGgamma transcription through the KRAS intermediate NRF2, suggesting that the REGgamma-proteasome is a potential target for pan-KRAS inhibitor development. We elucidated a mechanism involving the KRAS/NRF2/REGgamma regulatory axis, which links activated KRAS to the ATP- and ubiquitin-independent proteasome. We subsequently developed RLY01, a REGgamma-proteasome inhibitor that effectively suppressed tumor growth in KRAS-mutant cancer models and lung cancer organoids. Notably, the combination of RLY01 and the KRASG12C inhibitor AMG510 exhibited enhanced antitumor efficacy in KRASG12C cancer cells. Collectively, our data support the hypothesis that KRAS mutations enhance the capacity of the REGgamma-proteasome by increasing REGgamma expression, highlighting the potential of ubiquitin-independent proteasome inhibition as a therapeutic approach for pan-KRAS-mutant cancers.
PXD056630	40092809	Integrated Proteomics and Lipidomics Analysis of Hippocampus to Reveal the Metabolic Landscape of Epilepsy. 	Integrated proteomics and lipidomics analysis of hippocampus to reveal the metabolic landscape of epilepsy	epilepsy, hippocampal tissue, lipidomics, rats	Epilepsy encompasses a spectrum of chronic brain disorders characterized by transient central nervous system dysfunctions induced by recurrent, aberrant, synchronized neuronal discharges. Hippocampal sclerosis (HS) is identified as the predominant pathological alteration in epilepsy, particularly in temporal lobe epilepsy. This study investigates the metabolic profiles of epileptic hippocampal tissues using proteomics and lipidomics techniques. An epilepsy model was established in Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats via intraperitoneal injection of pentylenetetrazole (PTZ), with hippocampal tissue samples subsequently extracted for histopathological examination. Proteomics analysis was conducted using isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantitation (iTRAQ) combined with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), while lipidomics analysis employed ultrahigh-performance liquid chromatography quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UHPLC Q-TOF/MS). Proteomic analysis identified 144 proteins with significant differential expression in acute epileptic hippocampal tissue and 83 proteins in chronic epileptic hippocampal tissue. Key proteins, including neurofilament heavy (Nefh), vimentin (Vim), gelsolin (Gsn), NAD-dependent protein deacetylase (Sirt2), 2',3'-cyclic-nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase (Cnp), myocyte enhancer factor 2D (Mef2d), and Cathepsin D (Ctsd), were pivotal in epileptic hippocampal tissue injury and validated through parallel reaction monitoring (PRM). Concurrently, lipid metabolomics analysis identified 32 metabolites with significant differential expression in acute epileptic hippocampal tissue and 61 metabolites in chronic epileptic hippocampal tissue. Bioinformatics analysis indicated that glycerophospholipid (GP) metabolism, glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchor biosynthesis, and glycerolipid (GL) metabolism were crucial in epileptic hippocampal tissue injury. Integrated proteomics and lipidomics analysis revealed key protein-lipid interactions in acute and chronic epilepsy and identified critical pathways such as sphingolipid signaling, autophagy, and calcium signaling. These findings provide deeper insights into the pathophysiological mechanisms of epileptic hippocampal tissue damage, potentially unveiling novel therapeutic avenues for clinicians.
PXD060969	40093001	Identification and validation of protective glycoproteins in Haemonchus contortus H11. 	Identification and validation of protective glycoproteins in Haemonchus contortus H11	H11, Haemonchus contortus, N-glycan, glycoprotein, immunoprotection, insect cells, recombinant antigen, vaccine	Barbervax is the first and only available vaccine to protect animals against Haemonchus contortus - one of the most pathogenic parasites of small ruminants. This vaccine contains a kind of native antigen called H11, a glycoprotein complex derived from integral gut of this parasite. Native H11 has been shown to induce high levels (72-95%) of protection, but single or two recombinant molecules of H11 are consistently unsuccessful. An increasing number of aminopeptidases related to H11 have been characterized in the past three decades, but little is known about which ones are the key contributors to protective immunity. Our recent work has revealed that the immunoprotective effect of H11 is primarily associated with its N-glycan moieties. To identify key immunoprotective glycoproteins derived from H11 antigen, we employed glycan-related protective IgG antibodies combined with LC-MS/MS analysis and identified five glycosylated H11 proteins: H11, H11-1, H11-2, H11-4, and H11-5. Subsequently, we utilized the baculovirus-insect cell expression system and successfully expressed four H11 recombinant proteins including rH11, rH11-1, rH11-2 and rH11-4, which demonstrated similar aminopeptidase activity and comparable high-mannose and di-fucosylated N-glycan structures to those found on native H11. Immunization of goats with a cocktail of four rH11s induced a 66.29% reduction (p > 0.05) in total worm burden and cumulative fecal egg counts. High level of anti-rH11s IgG which could inhibit H. contortus intestinal aminopeptidase activity and larval development. Collectively, our study identified glycoprotein antigens from H11 and assessed their protective efficacy of a recombinant cocktail expressed in insect cells. This work will provide valuable insights into further development of recombinant vaccines against parasitic nematodes.
PXD056306	40096184	A poxvirus ankyrin protein LSDV012 inhibits IFIT1 in a host-species-specific manner by compromising its RNA binding ability. 	LSDV012 interacts with IFIT1/5 coip data	COIP, IFIT1, IFIT5, LSDV012	Poxviruses are large DNA viruses with an arsenal of immune-modulatory genes, many of which remain uncharacterized. Proteins with ankyrin repeats are distinct features of poxviruses, although the biological functions of ankyrin proteins are not fully understood. Lumpy skin disease virus (LSDV) encodes five proteins with ankyrin repeats. Here, we reveal the role of LSDV012, an ankyrin protein, in conferring resistance to type I interferon (IFN) in cells. Deletion of LSDV012 from LSDV significantly impacted viral replication in the presence of type I IFN, highlighting the importance of LSDV012 in antagonizing type I IFN responses. Further investigation revealed that LSDV012 interacted with interferon-induced proteins with tetratricopeptide repeats (IFITs), particularly IFIT1, altering its subcellular localization, interacting with its C-terminus and inhibiting its RNA-binding ability without inducing its degradation. Phylogenetic analysis demonstrated that LSDV012 orthologs are conserved in capripoxviruses and cervidpoxviruses, and exhibit host species-specific interactions with IFIT1. Notably, LSDV012 was able to rescue the degradation of IFIT1 mediated by VACV C9. These findings provide novel insights into the viral strategies employed by LSDV to subvert host antiviral defenses and underscore the evolutionary adaptations of poxvirus ankyrin proteins in host species-specific immune evasion.
PXD045107	40097401	Cortico-striatal circuit mechanisms drive the effects of D1 dopamine agonists on memory capacity in mice through cAMP/PKA signalling. 	Serial recruitment of protein kinase A in the striatum and in the prefrontal cortex mediates the inverted-U shaped dose-response curve of D1 agonists on memory capacity.	Human Proteome Project, PKA, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), dopamine, receptor D1	Working memory capacity (WMC), the number of items remembered in a short-time interval, is regulated by fronto-striatal dopamine (DA) and is reduced in schizophrenia. We investigated how excessive and insufficient D1 dopamine receptor stimulation impairs and expands WMC, focusing on the cAMP/PKA pathway in the fronto-striatal circuit. Low doses of the D1 agonist SKF 38393 enhance WMC by activating the striatum (mice remember more objects), while high doses, paradoxically, impair WMC, activating the same pathway in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) but inhibiting it in the striatum. This impairment, arising from mPFC-driven recruitment of inhibitory striatal parvalbumin interneurons, can be prevented by optogenetic inhibition of the mPFC-striatal pathway. Low doses of SKF 38393 also rescue WMC deficits in a schizophrenia mouse model. These results highlight the need for a systems pharmacology approach that considers complex brain interactions and intracellular signalling pathways, rather than isolated drug-receptor interactions, to develop memory-enhancing treatments.
PXD053002	40097441	Asgard Arf GTPases can act as membrane-associating molecular switches with the potential to function in organelle biogenesis. 	ZJ5 and 025 interact protein LC-MS	025, ZJ5	Inward membrane budding, i.e., the bending of membrane towards the cytosol, is essential for forming and maintaining eukaryotic organelles. In eukaryotes, Arf GTPases initiate this inward budding. Our research shows that Asgard archaea genomes encode putative Arf proteins (AArfs). AArfs possess structural elements characteristic of their eukaryotic counterparts. When expressed in yeast and mammalian cells, some AArfs displayed GTP-dependent membrane targeting. In vitro, AArf associated with both eukaryotic and archaeal membranes. In yeast, AArfs interacted with and were regulated by key organelle biogenesis players. Expressing an AArf led to a massive proliferation of endomembrane organelles including the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi. This AArf interacted with Sec23, a COPII vesicle coat component, in a GTP-dependent manner. These findings suggest certain AArfs are membrane-associating molecular switches with the functional potential to initiate organelle biogenesis, and the evolution of a functional coat could be the next critical step towards establishing eukaryotic cell architecture.
PXD055901	40097479	The gain-of-function UBE3A(Q588E) variant causes Angelman-like neurodevelopmental phenotypes in mice. 	Hyperactive UBE3A Variants Cause Neomorphic Neurodevelopmental Phenotypes	Autism, UBE3A	Mutations in the E3 ubiquitin ligase UBE3A that cause enzymatic gain-of-function result in disease phenotypes which differ from classic Angelman syndrome. However, these phenotypes are highly heterogeneous raising questions about the mechanistic basis of such phenotypic diversity. Here, we characterize a mouse model harboring a Ube3a(Q606E) gain of function variant (UBE3A(Q588E) in humans). Extensive behavioral phenotyping showed that animals possessing a maternally inherited mutation (Ube3a(mQ606E)) paradoxically show many behavioral deficits indicative of overall UBE3A loss-of-function. These included pronounced motor deficits, hypoactivity, and reduced stereotypic behaviors. Moreover, brain weights and MRI analysis revealed global microcephaly with a postnatal onset, consistent with phenotypes described in Angelman syndrome model mice. Additional biochemical analyses demonstrated an increased abundance of UBE3A substrates in brain tissue and immunofluorescence analyses showed that microcephaly is not caused by increased apoptotic cell death. Together, our results strongly suggest a novel mechanism by which the Ube3a(mQ606E) mutation leads to enhanced self-targeted degradation of UBE3A, leading to an overall loss of enzyme activity, resulting in Angelman-like phenotypes in vivo.
PXD059326	40097562	Characterizing the variation in safflower seed viability under different storage conditions through lipidomic and proteomic analyses. 	Characterizing the Variation in Safflower Seed Viability under Different Storage Conditions through Lipidomic and Proteomic Analyses	Proteome analysis data file	The aging of seeds seriously affects their yield. Vacuum and low temperatures have been shown to prolong seed life and delay seed senescence. However, the underlying mechanisms that control these processes in safflower have yet to be explored. Therefore, this study aimed to study the structural, physiological and biochemical changes that occur in safflower seeds stored for one year at different temperatures and sealing conditions. X-ray imaging, germination percentage determination, determination of water content, and TTC staining were utilized to analyze seed structure and viability. The structure of its outer surface was observed by scanning electron microscope, and the changes of catalase activity and malondialdehyde content were determined to understand its physiological and biochemical status. In addition, lipidomic and proteomic analyses were performed. The results showed that the germination percentage was improved under vacuum and low temperature conditions. Compared with high-temperature storage, low-temperature storage not only reduces the level of reactive oxygen species, but also facilitates the preservation of intact seed structure. Lipidomic analysis indicated the levels of PA reduced at low temperatures, while the content of PC, PE, PS, and PG exhibited an inverse correlation, increasing as temperatures decreased. Proteomic analysis identified two proteins (HH-013791-RA, HH-017308-RA) that may be involved in fatty acid metabolism and carbon metabolism respectively. Expression levels of these proteins were found to be lower at -18 degreesC, but increased with increasing storage temperatures. Storing safflower seeds under low-temperature and vacuum conditions significantly enhances germination rates and preserves seed structure by reducing reactive oxygen species levels. Two proteins (HH-013791-RA, HH-017308-RA) in the fatty acid metabolism and carbon metabolism pathways are temperature-regulated, and are involved in lipid metabolism, affecting seed structure and vitality.
PXD061082	40098313	Enhancing therapeutic efficacy through degradation of endogenous extracellular matrix in primary breast tumor spheroids. 	Enhancing therapeutic efficacy through degradation of endogenous extracellular matrix in primary breast tumor spheroids.	3D Spheroids, Breast Cancer, Collagen, Drug Penetration, Extracellular Matrix (ECM), Tumor Microenvironment (TME)	Solid tumors have a complex extracellular matrix (ECM) that significantly affects tumor behavior and response to therapy. Understanding the ECM's role is crucial for advancing cancer research and treatment. This study established an in vitro model using primary cells isolated from a rat breast tumor to generate three-dimensional spheroids. Monolayer cells and spheroid cultures exhibited different protein expression patterns, with primary tumor spheroids presenting an increased level of ECM-related proteins and a more complex extracellular environment. Furthermore, spheroids produce endogenous collagen type I matrix, which is the main component of the tumoral ECM. This matrix is arranged predominantly around the 3D structure, mimicking the conditions of solid tumors. Treatments with recombinant collagenases class II (acting on the linear collagen region) and class I (acting on the 3D-helix region) completely degrade collagen within the spheroid structure. Collagenase pretreatment enhances the accessibility of the anticancer drug doxorubicin to penetrate the core of spheroids and sensitize them to doxorubicin-induced cytotoxicity. Our findings highlight the importance of overcoming drug resistance in breast cancer by targeting the ECM and proposing a novel strategy for improving therapeutic outcomes in solid tumors. By employing a three-dimensional spheroid model, with an endogenous ECM, we can offer more relevant insights into tumor biology and treatment responses.
PXD037679	40100226	Monitoring Functional Posttranslational Modifications Using a Data-Driven Proteome Informatic Pipeline. 	A PTM-centric Proteome Informatic Pipeline for Monitoring Post-Translational Modifications by PEIMAN2	PTM, bioinformatics	Posttranslational modifications (PTMs) are of significant interest in molecular biomedicine due to their crucial role in signal transduction across various cellular and organismal processes. Characterizing PTMs, distinguishing between functional and inert modifications, quantifying their occupancies, and understanding PTM crosstalk are challenging tasks in any biosystem. Studying each PTM often requires a specific, labor-intensive experimental design. Here, we present a PTM-centric proteome informatic pipeline for predicting relevant PTMs in mass spectrometry-based proteomics data without prior information. Once predicted, these in silico identified PTMs can be incorporated into a refined database search and compared to measured data. As a practical application, we demonstrate how this pipeline can be used to study glycoproteomics in oral squamous cell carcinoma based on the proteome profile of primary tumors. Subsequently, we experimentally identified cellular proteins that are differentially expressed in cells treated with multikinase inhibitors dasatinib and staurosporine using mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Computational enrichment analysis was then employed to determine the potential PTMs of differentially expressed proteins induced by both drugs. Finally, we conducted an additional round of database search with the predicted PTMs. Our pipeline successfully analyzed the enriched PTMs, and detected proteins not identified in the initial search. Our findings support the effectiveness of PTM-centric searching of MS data in proteomics based on computational enrichment analysis, and we propose integrating this approach into future proteomics search engines.
PXD043873	40103729	A general approach for activity-based protein profiling of oxidoreductases with redox-differentiated diarylhalonium warheads. 	A General Approach for Activity-based Protein Profiling of Oxidoreductases with Redox-differentiated Diarylhalonium Warheads	Activity-based Protein Profiling, Oxidoreductase probe, mouse liver	Activity-based protein profiling (ABPP) is a unique proteomic tool for measuring the activity of enzymes in their cellular context, which has been well established for enzyme classes exhibiting a characteristic nucleophilic residue (e.g., hydrolases). In contrast, the enzyme class of oxidoreductases has received less attention, as its members rely mainly on cofactors instead of nucleophilic amino acid residues for catalysis. ABPP probes have been designed for specific oxidoreductase subclasses, which rely on the oxidative conversion of the probes into strong electrophiles. Here we describe the development of ABPP probes for the simultaneous labeling of various subclasses of oxidoreductases. The probe warheads are based on hypervalent diarylhalonium salts, which show unique reactivity as their activation proceeds via a reductive mechanism resulting in aryl radicals leading to covalent labeling of liver proteins at several different amino acids in close proximity to the active sites. The redox potential of the probes can be tuned by isosteric replacement varying the halonium central atom. ABPP experiments with liver using 16 probes differing in warhead, linker, and structure revealed distinct overlapping profiles and broad substrate specificities of several probes. With their capability of multi oxidoreductase subclass labeling - including rare examples for the class of reductases - and their unique design, the herein reported probes offer new opportunities for the investigation of the "oxidoreductome" of microorganisms, plants, animal and human tissues.
PXD044582	40104050	A CHD8-TRRAP axis facilitates MYC and E2F target gene regulation in human neural stem cells. 	A CHD8-TRRAP axis facilitates MYC- and E2F-target gene regulation in human neural stem cells.	CHD8, EZ2F, MYC, gene regulation, neural stem cells	Mutations in ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler CHD8 cause one of the most frequent monogenetic forms of autism and are associated with brain overgrowth. Nevertheless, the activities of CHD8 in autism-relevant cell types are still poorly understood. Here, we purify the CHD8 protein from human neural stem cells and determine its interaction partners using mass spectrometry. We identify the TRRAP complex, a coactivator of MYC and E2F transcription factors, as a prominent CHD8 interaction partner. CHD8 colocalizes genome-wide with TRRAP and binds together at MYC and E2F target gene promoters in human neural stem cells. Depletion of CHD8 or TRRAP in human neural stem cells shows downregulation of MYC and E2F target genes as the most prominent gene-regulatory events. Depletion of CHD8 diminishes cell-cycle entry into S-phase. MYC and E2F transcription factors are established oncogenes and regulate cell growth. Our results link CHD8 to TRRAP in facilitating the regulation of MYC and E2F target genes in human neural stem cells.
PXD013469	40105243	DNA damage response regulator ATR licenses PINK1-mediated mitophagy. 	Role of ATR in mitochondrial functions and metabolism	ATR, metabolism, mitochondrial function	Defective DNA damage response (DDR) and mitochondrial dysfunction are a major etiology of tissue impairment and aging. Mitochondrial autophagy (mitophagy) is a mitochondrial quality control (MQC) mechanism to selectively eliminate dysfunctional mitochondria. ATR (ataxia-telangiectasia and Rad3-related) is a key DDR regulator playing a pivotal role in DNA replication stress response and genomic stability. Paradoxically, the human Seckel syndrome caused by ATR mutations exhibits premature aging and neuropathies, suggesting a role of ATR in nonreplicating tissues. Here, we report a previously unknown yet direct role of ATR at mitochondria. We find that ATR and PINK1 (PTEN-induced kinase 1) dock at the mitochondrial translocase TOM/TIM complex, where ATR interacts directly with and thereby stabilizes PINK1. ATR deletion silences mitophagy initiation thereby altering oxidative phosphorylation functionality resulting in reactive oxygen species overproduction that attack cytosolic macromolecules, in both cells and brain tissues, prior to nuclear DNA. This study discloses ATR as an integrated component of the PINK1-mediated MQC program to ensure mitochondrial fitness. Together with its DDR function, ATR safeguards mitochondrial and genomic integrity under physiological and genotoxic conditions.
PXD056814	40105417	HRaDeX: R Package and Web Server for Computing High-Resolution Deuterium Uptake Rates for HDX-MS Data. 	Dynamics and Structural Features of eEF1A1 and eEF1A2 Paralogs	HDX-MS, elogation factors, protein dynamics, protein structure, split isotopic envelope	Hydrogen-deuterium exchange monitored by mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) is a well-established and powerful technique used to study protein dynamics and stability by capturing local and global unfolding events in protein structures. However, in this technique, obtaining region-specific information requires proteolytic digestion that breaks the protein into peptide fragments, causing the HDX data to reflect averages over these fragments rather than individual amino acids. We propose a new computational method that provides deuterium uptake kinetic parameters with high resolution, considering deuterium uptake trajectories of superimposed peptides. Our algorithm, HRaDeX, is available as a web server and an R package capable of processing data from single-state and comparative HDX-MS studies. Utilizing eight benchmark data sets, we demonstrate that HRaDeX reaches an average root-mean-square error of 7.15% in the reconstitution of experimental normalized deuterium uptake curves.
PXD052409	40105698	Structural characterization and inhibition of the interaction between ch-TOG and TACC3. 	Characterisation of TACC3 affimer interactions by HDX-MS	HDX, TAAC3, affimer	The mitotic spindle is a bipolar array of microtubules, radiating from the poles which each contain a centrosome, embedded in pericentriolar material. Two proteins, ch-TOG and TACC3, have multiple functions at the mitotic spindle due to operating either alone, together, or in complex with other proteins. To distinguish these activities, we need new molecular tools to dissect their function. Here, we present the structure of the alpha-helical bundle domain of ch-TOG that mediates its interaction with TACC3 and a structural model describing the interaction, supported by biophysical and biochemical data. We have isolated Affimer tools to precisely target the ch-TOG-binding site on TACC3 in live cells, which displace ch-TOG without affecting the spindle localization of other protein complex components. Inhibition of the TACC3-ch-TOG interaction led unexpectedly to fragmentation of the pericentriolar material in metaphase cells and delayed mitotic progression, uncovering a novel role of TACC3-ch-TOG in maintaining pericentriolar material integrity during mitosis to ensure timely cell division.
PXD053886	40106438	Lactylation orchestrates ubiquitin-independent degradation of cGAS and promotes tumor growth. 	Interaction proteins of cGAS and PSMA4 with lactate treatment	Lactate, PSMA4, cGAS	Lactate extensively associates with metabolic reprogramming, signal transduction, and immune modulation. Nevertheless, the regulatory role of lactate in immune sensing of cytosolic DNA remains uncertain. Here, we report that lactate serves as an initiator to facilitate proteasomal degradation of cyclic GMP-AMP synthase (cGAS) independent of ubiquitin, thus repressing the production of interferon and contributing to tumor growth. Mechanistically, lactylation of K21 stimulates cGAS translocation from the nucleus to the proteasome for degradation, which is compromised by phosphorylation of PSMA4 S188 via disrupting its association with cGAS. Concurrently, lactylation of K415 rewires PIK3CB activity and impairs ULK1-driven phosphorylation of PSMA4 S188. Physiologically, lactylation of cGAS sustains tumor growth. Expression of cGAS correlates with the antitumor effect of the LDHA inhibitor FX11. Finally, the lactate-cGAS axis indicates a prognostic outcome of lung adenocarcinoma. Collectively, these findings not only put forth a mechanism of cGAS degradation but also unravel the clinical relevance of cGAS lactylation.
PXD041584	40108677	Plasma N-Glycoproteomics in monozygotic twin pairs discordant for body mass index reveals an obesity signature related to inflammation and iron metabolism. 	Plasma N-Glycoproteomics for BMI-discordant monozygotic twin pairs	N-Glycopeptidomics, monozygotic twins, obesity, plasma	BACKGROUND: N-glycosylation is a complex, post-translational modification which influences protein function and is sensitive to physiological changes. Obesity is associated with alterations in protein function; however, little is known about the glycoproteome in obesity beyond observations of association with types and structures of selected glycopeptides. Most often, due to technical challenges, glycan composition and structure information are missing. Here, we combined label-free data-independent proteomics and targeted quantitative glycoproteomics to study N-glycosylation of plasma proteins in obesity. Using a monozygotic twin study design, we controlled for genetic variation and focused only on the acquired effects of obesity. METHODS: Using plasma samples of 48 monozygotic twin pairs discordant for BMI (intrapair difference > 2.5 kg/m(2)), we identified using mass spectrometry, differential protein and glycopeptide levels between heavier and leaner co-twins. We used a within-twin paired analysis model and considered p < 0.05 as significant. RESULTS: We identified 48 protein and 33 N-glycosylation expression differences (p < 0.05) between co-twins. These differences occurred either both in the protein expression and glycoprotein (sometimes in opposing directions) or independently from each other. Haptoglobin protein was upregulated (Fold Change = 1.10, p = 0.001) in heavier co-twins along with seven upregulated glycan compositions at N-glycosylation site Asn241. The complement protein C3 was upregulated (Fold Change = 1.08, p = 0.014) along with one upregulated glycopeptide at Asn85. Additionally, many glycopeptides were upregulated despite non-significant differences in protein-backbone plasma levels. CONCLUSION: Differential protein expression related to cholesterol biosynthesis and acute phase signalling as well as N-glycosylation of proteins related to iron metabolism and inflammation can be linked to acquired obesity.
PXD058205	40111564	Elevated VRK1 levels after androgen deprivation therapy promote prostate cancer progression by upregulating YAP1 expression. 	Study of biological function of VRK1 in the development and progress of prostate cancer	PC3, VRK1, prostate cancer	PURPOSE: Vaccinia-related kinase 1 (VRK1) is a serine-threonine kinase involved in the proliferation and migration of various cancer cells. However, its role in prostate cancer (PCa), particularly in the development of therapeutic resistance, remains unclear. METHODS: We established an androgen-independent PCa cell line derived from LNCaP prostate cancer cells and conducted transcriptome and proteome sequencing together with bioinformatic analyses of large clinical sample databases to investigate the potential role of VRK1 in PCa progression. The correlation between VRK1 and androgen receptor (AR) signaling was evaluated under simulated clinical treatment conditions. The effects of VRK1 on cell proliferation were assessed in vitro and in vivo using Cell Counting Kit-8 and colony formation assays. Additionally, proteome and transcriptome sequencing, combined with rescue experiments were performed to explore VRK1-regulated signaling pathways related to cell proliferation and therapeutic resistance. RESULTS: VRK1 expression was elevated during the progression of androgen-dependent prostate cancer to castration-resistant prostate cancer under therapeutic conditions, and high VRK1 expression was associated with a poor prognosis in patients with PCa. VRK1 was regulated by AR signaling, and its silencing suppressed PCa cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. VRK1 drove cell proliferation and therapeutic resistance in PCa by modulating yes-associated protein 1 (YAP1). CONCLUSIONS: VRK1 serves as a prognostic marker in PCa, regulated by AR signaling. VRK1 depletion inhibited cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo, while elevated VRK1 upregulated YAP1, promoting cell proliferation and therapeutic resistance.
PXD060125	40112106	ANGPTL3/8 is an atypical unfoldase that regulates intravascular lipolysis by catalyzing unfolding of lipoprotein lipase. 	ANGPTL3/8 is an atypical unfoldase that regulates intravascular lipolysis by catalyzing unfolding of lipoprotein lipase as measured by hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS)	ANGPTL3/8, GPIHBP1, HDX-MS, intravascular lipolysis, lipoprotein lipase	Lipoprotein lipase (LPL) carries out the lipolytic processing of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins (TRL) along the luminal surface of capillaries. LPL activity is regulated by the angiopoietin-like proteins (ANGPTL3, ANGPTL4, ANGPTL8), which control the delivery of TRL-derived lipid nutrients to tissues in a temporal and spatial fashion. This regulation of LPL mediates the partitioning of lipid delivery to adipose tissue and striated muscle according to nutritional status. A complex between ANGPTL3 and ANGPTL8 (ANGPTL3/8) inhibits LPL activity in oxidative tissues, but its mode of action has remained unknown. Here, we used biophysical techniques to define how ANGPTL3/8 and ANGPTL3 interact with LPL and how they drive LPL inactivation. We demonstrate, by mass photometry, that ANGPTL3/8 is a heterotrimer with a 2:1 ANGPTL3:ANGPTL8 stoichiometry and that ANGPTL3 is a homotrimer. Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS) studies revealed that ANGPTL3/8 and ANGPTL3 use the proximal portion of their N-terminal alpha-helices to interact with sequences surrounding the catalytic pocket in LPL. That binding event triggers unfolding of LPL's alpha/beta-hydrolase domain and irreversible loss of LPL catalytic activity. The binding of LPL to its endothelial transporter protein (GPIHBP1) or to heparan-sulfate proteoglycans protects LPL from unfolding and inactivation, particularly against the unfolding triggered by ANGPTL3. Pulse-labeling HDX-MS studies revealed that ANGPTL3/8 and ANGPTL3 catalyze LPL unfolding in an ATP-independent fashion, which categorizes these LPL inhibitors as atypical unfoldases. The catalytic nature of LPL unfolding by ANGPTL3/8 explains why low plasma concentrations of ANGPTL3/8 are effective in inhibiting a molar excess of LPL in capillaries.
PXD052338	40112800	Jumbo phage killer immune system targets early infection of nucleus-forming phages. 	The jumbo phage killer immune system targets early infection of nucleus-forming jumbo phages	Jumbo bacteriophages, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, TMT10plex	Jumbo bacteriophages of the phiKZ-like family assemble a lipid-based early phage infection (EPI) vesicle and a proteinaceous nucleus-like structure during infection. These structures protect the phage from nucleases and may create selective pressure for immunity mechanisms targeting this specific phage family. Here, we identify "jumbo phage killer" (Juk), a two-component immune system that terminates infection of phiKZ-like phages, suppressing the expression of early phage genes and preventing phage DNA replication and phage nucleus assembly while saving the cell. JukA (formerly YaaW) rapidly senses the EPI vesicle by binding to an early-expressed phage protein, gp241, and then directly recruits JukB. The JukB effector structurally resembles a pore-forming toxin and destabilizes the EPI vesicle. Functional anti-phiKZ JukA homologs are found across bacterial phyla, associated with diverse effectors. These findings reveal a widespread defense system that specifically targets early events executed by phiKZ-like jumbo phages prior to phage nucleus assembly.
PXD058506	40113745	MAGL targeted PROTAC degrader simultaneously enhances P53 for synergistic treatment of glioblastoma stem cell. 	MAGL Targeted PROTAC Degrader Simultaneously Enhances P53 for Synergistic Treatment of Glioblastoma Stem Cell	Glioblastoma, Glioblastoma Stem Cell, MAGL, MDM2, Proteolysis-targeting chimeras	Glioblastoma (GBM) stands as the most fatal brain tumor due to limited therapeutic options and high rates of drug resistance. Current surgical and pharmacological interventions usually fail to eradicate the aggressive GBM stem cells (GSCs), which leads to the deadly GBM occurrence. Although proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs) are prosperous in drug development for tumors, their application in GBM, particularly for GSC-sensitive drug candidates remains in its nascent stages. In this regard, we designed a monoacylglycerol lipase (MAGL) targeting PROTAC, where MAGL was identified as a novel target for GSCs in our previous study. The MAGL inhibitor JZL184 was redesigned by leveraging computational chemistry analysis, and an active unit was engaged for conjugation. E3 ligand for MAGL targeted warhead conjugation was screened with bioinformatics analyses, which revealed heightened activity of the E3 ligase MDM2 in GBM, a classic negative regulator of the tumor suppressor P53, which correlates with patient prognosis. Then the PROTAC was conjugated with JZL184 analog and the MDM2 inhibitor Nutlin-3 analog. Experimental results validated that the designed JN-PROTAC effectively induced MAGL targeted degradation and concomitantly enhanced P53 activation via MDM2 inhibition and is capable of inhibiting the progression of patient-derived GSCs in vivo. This work presents a proof-of-concept PROTAC design tailored for GSCs, potentially addressing the occurrence challenges for GBM.
PXD061090	40113833	Low intensity pulsed ultrasound alleviates synovial fibrosis in osteoarthritis via the PI3K/AKT pathway. 	Data-independent acquisition proteomics of rat serum between LIPUS and OA	Data-independent acquisition proteomics, rat, serum	Previous studies have reported that low-intensity pulsed ultrasound (LIPUS) can alleviate cartilage degradation in osteoarthritis (OA). However, the functions and mechanisms of LIPUS in synovial fibrosis with OA require further study. To investigate the role of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway in synovial fibrosis and in LIPUS treatment in synovial fibrosis, a TGF-beta stimulated rat FLS cell model and a rat OA animal model based on anterior cruciate ligament transection (ACLT) and partial medial meniscectomy (MMx) were used. The results revealed that LIPUS delayed the progression of OA. Masson staining revealed that LIPUS reduced the collagen deposition of synovial tissue in OA rats. Correspondingly, immunofluorescence demonstrated that LIPUS significantly downregulated the expression of alpha-SMA, Col1a1 and Col3a1 in OA rats. Moreover, TGF-beta stimulation upregulated fibrosis markers at the mRNA and protein levels in FLS, as well as increased phosphorylation-dependent activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway. 740Y-P was found to promote the fibrotic change of FLS induced by TGF-beta, but LY294002 reduced its expression. However, LIPUS inhibits the fibrotic change and activation of the PI3K/Akt pathway in FLS under stimulation of TGF-beta. In conclusion, LIPUS alleviates synovial fibrosis by blocking the PI3K/AKT pathway.
PXD058081	40115185	Affinity-based protein profiling of MDM2 inhibitor Navtemadlin. 	Comparison of SJSA-1 and MCF-7 whole proteome after Navtemadlin treatment	MCF-7, Navtemadlin, SJSA-1, whole proteome	Navtemadlin is a potent inhibitor of the p53-MDM2 protein-protein interaction, which plays a critical role in the proliferation of p53-wildtype tumours. Whilst Navtemadlin has progressed to multiple Phase III clinical trials in oncology, little has been disclosed regarding its selectivity for MDM2 in cells. Here, we report the synthesis and validation of photoactivatable clickable probes of Navtemadlin, and their application to de novo target discovery for Navtemadlin through affinity-based protein profiling. MDM2 was robustly identified as the main target, across two cell lines, using two distinct probe designs. While off-targets were identified, these were not consistent across cell lines and probe designs, consistent with a high degree of selectivity for the target protein. Whole proteome profiling experiments across different time points confirmed p53-mediated phenotypic activity and revealed novel expression patterns for key proteins in the p53 pathway.
PXD055550	40115634	ADAMTS7, a target in atherosclerosis, cooperates with its homolog ADAMTS12 to protect against myxomatous valve degeneration. 	ADAMTS7, a target in atherosclerosis, cooperates with homolog ADAMTS12 to protect against myxomatous valve degeneration	ADAMTS, chondroitin sulfate, extracellular matrix, fibrosis, heart valve, hypertrophy, metalloproteinase, myxomatous valve, regurgitation	The physiological roles of the metalloprotease-proteoglycan ADAMTS7, a drug target in atherosclerosis and vascular restenosis, and its homolog ADAMTS12, are undefined in the cardiovascular system. The objective of the present work was to investigate their roles in mice with genetic inactivation of both proteases and in relation to the resulting valve defects, to define their proteolytic activities in the matrisome. Here, we demonstrate that Adamts7 and Adamts12 are co-expressed in heart valves and each buffers inactivation of the other by compensatory upregulation. Leaflets of Adamts7 (-/-);Adamts12 (-/-) aortic valves, but not the respective single mutants, were abnormally shaped at birth, with progressively severe disorganization and enlargement occurring thereafter. Doppler echocardiography showed that Adamts7 (-/-);Adamts12 (-/-) mice had stenotic and regurgitant aortic valves. We investigated ADAMTS7 and ADAMTS12 substrates relevant to the valve matrisome in secretome libraries from Adamts7 (-/-);Adamts12 (-/-) cells using the N-terminomics technique Terminal Amine Isotopic Labeling of Substrates (TAILS). Although ADAMTS7 and ADAMTS12 shared several extracellular matrix (ECM) substrates, cleavage sites and sequence preference for each protease were distinct. Adamts7 (-/-);Adamts12 (-/-) valve leaflets showed accumulation of several of the identified ECM substrates, including periostin, a matricellular protein crucial for cardiac valve homeostasis. We conclude that the myxomatous degeneration in Adamts7 (-/-);Adamts12 (-/-) valve leaflets reflects a complex disturbance of ECM proteostasis with accumulation of multiple ADAMTS7 and ADAMTS12 ECM substrates, and perturbation of regulatory pathways with roots in ECM, such as TGFbeta signaling, which was increased in the mutant valves.
PXD059574	40116125	Downregulating FGGY carbohydrate kinase domain containing promotes cell senescence by activating the p53/p21 signaling pathway in colorectal cancer. 	Proteomics analysis of silencing of FGGY gene on colorectal cancer cells	FGGY, colorectal cancer, proteomic analysis	Carbohydrate kinases serve an oncogenic role in several types of cancer; however, the function of FGGY carbohydrate kinase domain containing (FGGY) in colorectal cancer (CRC) remains unknown. The present study investigated the function and possible molecular mechanisms of FGGY in CRC. The results showed that elevated levels of FGGY mRNA and protein were observed in CRC tissues, and a higher expression of FGGY was associated with advanced N stage and reduced overall survival time in patients with CRC. Silencing FGGY inhibited the viability of CRC cells by inducing cell cycle arrest and promoting apoptosis in vitro, thereby attenuating tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model. FGGY knockdown also enriched the senescence-associated heterochromatin foci (SAHF) pathway and p53 pathway, as further confirmed by enhancing senescence-associated beta-galactosidase (SA-beta-gal) activity, with increased levels of SAHF-associated proteins HP1gamma and trimethylation of H3K9 (H3k9me3) in CRC cells, as well as upregulation of p53 and its downstream protein p21. Furthermore, p53 knockout rescued FGGY knockdown-mediated reductions in cell viability, SA-beta-gal activity, and the levels of HP1gamma and H3k9me3 in CRC cells. These findings indicated that FGGY could act as a newly identified potential oncogene in CRC, partially through regulating the p53/p21 signaling pathway and altering cell senescence.
PXD058102	40116843	Membranous translation platforms in the chloroplast of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. 	Membranous translation platforms in the chloroplast of Chlamydomonas reinhardtii	chloroplast, membrane, photosynthesis, ribosome, thylakoid, translation	A small genome in chloroplasts encodes many of the polypeptide subunits of the photosynthetic electron transport complexes embedded in the membranes of thylakoid vesicles in the chloroplast stroma and synthesized by ribosomes of the bacterial-like genetic system of this semiautonomous organelle. While thylakoid membranes are sites of translation, evidence in the unicellular alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii supports translation on non-canonical membranes in a discrete translation-zone in the chloroplast. To characterize the membranous platforms for translation and the biogenesis of thylakoid membranes, we profiled membranes during chloroplast development, using the yellow-in-the-dark1 mutant, and carried out proteomic analyses on two membrane types proposed previously to support translation in the chloroplast of C. reinhardtii: "low-density membrane" (LDM) and "chloroplast translation membrane" (CTM). The results support roles of LDM and CTM in preliminary and ongoing stages of translation, respectively. Proteomics, immunoprecipitation and transmission electron microscopy results support connections of these membranous platforms and a chloroplast envelope domain bound by cytoplasmic ribosomes. Our results contribute to a model of photosynthesis complex biogenesis in a spatiotemporal "assembly line" involving LDM and CTM as sequential stages leading to photosynthetic thylakoid membranes.
PXD057811	40117000	DUBR non-coding RNA regulates gene expression by affecting AP-1 enhancer accessibility. 	ncRNA DUBR RAP-MS in HCT116 cells	DUBR, HCT116, RAP-MS, ncRNA	Non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) are finely tuned cellular regulators important for human cell growth and cancer progression. DUBR (Dppa2 upstream binding RNA, also known as linc00883) is a nuclear ncRNA first discovered in mice for its role in regulating myoblast differentiation through interactions with chromatin and DNA methyltransferases. High expression levels of this ncRNA are predictive of poor patient outcome in colon adenocarcinoma, suggesting that DUBR may be involved in controlling cancer growth. To elucidate its function, we used RAP-MS and RNA immunoprecipitation techniques which revealed its interaction with epigenetic maintenance proteins in the human colon cancer cell line HCT116. Further, ATAC-seq and RNA-seq were used to address its function in regulating the epigenome and transcriptome of HCT116 cells. Here we report that DUBR is a regulator of human colon cancer cell line HCT116 survival. Additionally, we find that the ncRNA DUBR regulates AP-1 transcription factor binding site accessibility at enhancers of genes involved in differentiation and morphogenesis through interactions with epigenetic proteins such as NuRD complex members HDAC1 and CHD4.
PXD054767	40117458	Protein Carrier Adeno-Associated Virus. 	Analysis of Protein Carrier AAV by LC-MS/MS	Adeno-associated virus, DIA, MaxQuant	Adeno-associated virus (AAV) has emerged as a leading platform for gene therapy, enabling the delivery of therapeutic DNA to target cells. However, the potential of AAV to deliver protein payloads has been unexplored. In this study, we engineered a protein carrier AAV (pcAAV) to package and deliver proteins by inserting binding domains on the interior capsid surface. These binding domains mediate the packaging of specific target proteins through interaction with cognate peptides or protein tags during the capsid assembly process. We demonstrate the packaging of multiple proteins, including green fluorescent protein, Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9, Cre recombinase, and the engineered peroxidase APEX2. Packaging efficiency is modulated by the binding domain insertion site, the viral protein isoform containing the binding domain, and the subcellular localization of the target protein. We show that pcAAV can enter cells and deliver the protein payload and that enzymes retain their activity after packaging. Importantly, this protein packaging capability can be translated to multiple AAV serotypes. Our work establishes AAV as a protein delivery vehicle, significantly expanding the utility of this viral vector for biomedical applications.
PXD050512	40119256	Seminal plasma proteomics of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients reveals disruption of male reproductive function. 	COVID-19 infection on human semen quality	COVID-19, semen	BACKGROUND: A considerable proportion of males suffer from asymptomatic SARS-CoV-2 infection, while the effect on reproductive function and underlying pathomechanisms remain unclear. RESULTS: The total sperm count decreased evidently after asymptomatic infection, yet all semen samples were tested to be SARS-CoV-2 RNA negative. Through label-free quantitative proteomic profiling, a total of 733 proteins were further identified in seminal plasma from 11 COVID-19 patients and seven uninfected controls. Of the 37 differentially expressed proteins, 23 were upregulated and 14 were downregulated in the COVID-19 group compared with control. Functional annotations in Gene Ontology (GO), Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG), and Reactome showed that these proteins were highly enriched in infection, inflammation, and immunity-related pathways as well as spermatogenesis-associated biological process. Four proteins were significantly correlated with one or more semen parameters in Spearman's coefficient analysis, and seven were filtered as potential hub proteins from the interaction network by MCODE and Cytohubba algorithms. Furthermore, we verified the proteomic results by Western blot analysis of three representative proteins (ITLN1, GSTM2, and PSAP) in the validation cohort. CONCLUSIONS: In summary, our study showed that acute asymptomatic COVID-19 could alter the seminal plasma protein profile without direct testicular infection and consequently lead to impaired semen quality. These novel findings should enlighten the physicians about the adverse effects of SARS-CoV-2 infection on male fertility, and provide valuable resources for reproductive biologists to further decipher the molecular functions.
PXD055639	40119417	Proteomic profiling and functional analysis of extracellular vesicles from metastasis-competent circulating tumor cells in colon cancer. 	Colorectal cancer Circulating tumor cells released Extracelluar Vesicles proteome cargo analysis	Circulating tumor cells, Colorectal cancer, extracellular vesicles	BACKGROUND: Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) are pivotal in cancer progression, and in vitro CTC models are crucial for understanding their biological mechanisms. This study focused on the characterization of extracellular vesicles (EVs) from CTC lines derived from a patient with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) at different stages of progression who progressed despite therapy (thus mirroring the clonal evolution of cancer). METHODS AND RESULTS: Morphological and size analyses revealed variations among EVs derived from different CTC lines. Compared with the Vesiclepedia database, proteomic profiling of these EVs revealed enrichment of proteins related to stemness, endosomal biogenesis, and mCRC prognosis. Integrin family proteins were significantly enriched in EVs from CTC lines derived after therapy failure. The role of these EVs in cancer progression was analyzed by assessing their in vivo distribution, particularly in the liver, lungs, kidneys, and bones. EVs accumulate significantly in the liver, followed by the lungs, kidneys and femurs. CONCLUSIONS: This study is a pioneering effort in highlighting therapy progression-associated changes in EVs from mCRC patients via an in vitro CTC model. The results offer insights into the role of metastasis initiator CTC-derived EVs in cancer spread, suggesting their utility for studying cancer tissue distribution mechanisms. However, these findings must be confirmed and extended to patients with mCRC. This work underscores the potential of CTC-derived EVs as tools for understanding cancer dissemination.
PXD057432	40122519	Obese adipose tissue extracellular vesicles activate mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation to drive colonic stemness. 	Proteomics on mouse obese and non-obese visceral adipose tissue derived extracellular vesicles	Adipose tissue, extracellular vesicles	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Patients with obesity and mouse models of obesity exhibit abnormalities in intestinal epithelial cells, including enhanced stemness. Adipose tissue (AT) is the largest endocrine organ secreting cytokines, hormones, and extracellular vesicles (EVs). Here, we characterized EV protein cargo from obese and non-obese AT and demonstrate the role of obese adipose-derived EVs in enhancing colonic stemness. METHODS: EVs were isolated from visceral AT from mice fed high-fat diet to induce obesity or control matched-diet. EV cargo was characterized by unbiased proteomics. Mouse colonoids were treated with EVs and analyzed for fatty acid beta-oxidation (FAO), expression of stem marker genes, stem function, and beta-catenin expression and acetylation. Mice deficient in adipocyte-specific Tsg101 expression were generated to alter adipocyte EV protein cargo and colonic stemness was measured. RESULTS: EVs secreted from obese visceral AT (Ob EVs) were significantly enriched with acyl-CoA dehydrogenase long chain (ACADL), an initiator enzyme of FAO. Compared to non-obese EVs, colonoids treated with Ob EVs exhibited increased exogenous ACADL protein expression, FAO, growth, persistence of stem/progenitor function, and increased beta-catenin protein expression and acetylation that was abolished by FAO inhibition. Mice deficient in adipocyte-specific Tsg101 expression exhibited Ob EVs with altered protein expression profiles and were protected from obesity-induced enhanced colonic stemness. CONCLUSIONS: The contents of Ob EVs are poised to fuel FAO and to promote obesity-induced stemness in the colon. Alteration of metabolism is a key mechanism of adipose-to-intestinal tissue communication elicited by EVs, thereby influencing basal colonic stem cell homeostasis during obesity.
PXD053109	40122595	Longitudinal paired liver biopsies and transcriptome profiling in alcohol-associated hepatitis reveal dynamic changes in cellular senescence. 	Alcohol-associated hepatitis induces hepatocyte senescence which is reduced following disease resolution	Liver, alcohol, hepatocyte	BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Alcohol-associated hepatitis (AH) is an acute form of alcohol-related liver disease (ALD) with high mortality rate. AH is histologically characterised by cellular processes, including steatosis, inflammation and cell death. Apoptosis is the most studied form of cell death in AH; however, the role of cellular senescence, another response to cellular injury, in AH is unknown. Here, we explore the mechanisms of ALD pathophysiology and describe the role of senescence in AH. METHODS: We performed RNA sequencing and bioinformatics analysis of 0- and 28-day transjugular liver biopsies (n=65) from patients with AH participating in the IL-1 Signal Inhibition In Alcoholic Hepatitis (ISAIAH) clinical trial. Additional bioinformatics reanalysis of existing AH transcriptomic datasets was conducted to confirm our findings. We also performed multiomic analysis of an in vitro model of AH with ethanol-treated hepatocytes overexpressing ethanol-metabolising enzymes. RESULTS: Our longitudinal analysis revealed that senescence and inflammation were reduced at transcriptomic level following AH resolution; the expression of hepatocyte markers was increased. We identified two senescence-associated protein complexes, cytochrome c oxidase and the proteasome, which may act as senescence-induction mechanisms. We confirmed that senescence markers and pathways were increasingly expressed in hepatocytes as ALD progressed towards AH; this was partially reversed following AH resolution. Our in vitro model revealed that ethanol directly induces senescence and was dependent on ethanol metabolism. CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest a possible pathogenic role for senescence in AH and indicate cellular senescence as a potential therapeutic target in early ALD to limit AH severity.
PXD052973	40122809	Blood-based detection of MMP11 as a marker of prostate cancer progression regulated by the ALDH1A1-TGF-beta1 signaling mechanism. 	Blood-based detection of MMP11 as a marker of prostate cancer progression regulated by the ALDH1A1-TGF-1 signaling mechanism	ALDH1A1, Liquid biopsy, MMP11, Metastasis, Prostate cancer, TGF-1	BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer (PCa) is the second most common type of tumor diagnosed in men and the fifth leading cause of cancer-related death in male patients. The response of metastatic disease to standard treatment is heterogeneous. As for now, there is no curative treatment option available for metastatic PCa, and the clinical tests capable of predicting metastatic dissemination and metastatic response to the therapies are lacking. Our recent study identified aldehyde dehydrogenases ALDH1A1 and ALDH1A3 as critical regulators of PCa metastases. Still, the exact mechanisms mediating the role of these proteins in PCa metastatic dissemination remain not fully understood, and plasma-based biomarkers of these metastatic mechanisms are not available. METHODS: Genetic silencing, gene overexpression, or treatment with different concentrations of the retinoic acid (RA) isomers, which are the products of ALDH catalytic activity, were used to modulate the interplay between retinoic acid receptors (RARs) and androgen receptor (AR). RNA sequencing (RNAseq), reporter gene assays, and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) analysis were employed to validate the role of RARs and AR in the regulation of the transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGFB1) expression. Gene expression levels of ALDH1A1, ALDH1A3, and the matrix metalloproteinase 11 (MMP11) and their correlation with pathological parameters and clinical outcomes were analysed by mining several publicly available patient datasets as well as our multi-center transcriptomic dataset from patients with high-risk and locally advanced PCa. The level of MMP11 protein was analysed by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in independent cohorts of plasma samples from patients with primary or metastatic PCa and healthy donors, while plasma proteome profiles were obtained for selected subsets of PCa patients. RESULTS: We could show that ALDH1A1 and ALDH1A3 genes differently regulate TGFB1 expression in a RAR- and AR-dependent manner. We further observed that the TGF-beta1 pathway contributes to the regulation of the MMPs, including MMP11. We have confirmed the relevance of MMP11 as a promising clinical marker for PCa using several independent gene expression datasets. Further, we have validated plasma MMP11 level as a prognostic biomarker in patients with metastatic PCa. Finally, we proposed a hypothetical ALDH1A1/MMP11-related plasma proteome-based prognostic signature. CONCLUSIONS: TGFB1/MMP11 signaling contributes to the ALDH1A1-driven PCa metastases. MMP11 is a promising blood-based biomarker of PCa progression.
PXD055305	40122840	Proximity proteomics reveals unique and shared pathological features between multiple system atrophy and Parkinson's disease. 	Comparison of MSA with PD/DLB alpha-synuclein pathology using proximity proteomics	alpha-synuclein, interactome	Synucleinopathies such as Parkinson's disease (PD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), and multiple system atrophy (MSA) are neurodegenerative diseases with shared clinical and pathological features. Aggregates of alpha-synuclein (alphasyn) phosphorylated at serine 129 (PSER129) are hallmarks of synucleinopathies, which, for PD/DLB, are found predominantly in neurons, whereas in MSA, aggregates are primarily found in oligodendroglia. It remains unclear whether the distinct pathological presentations of PD/DLB and MSA are manifestations of unique or shared pathological processes. Using the in-situ proximity labeling technique of biotinylation by antibody recognition (BAR), we compared aggregated alphasyn-interactomes (BAR-PSER129) and total alphasyn-interactomes (BAR-MJFR1) between MSA (n = 5) and PD/DLB (n = 10) in forebrain and midbrain structures. Comparison between MSA and PD/DLB-enriched proteins revealed 79 PD/DLB-differentially abundant proteins and only three MSA-differentially abundant proteins (CBR1, CRYAB, and GFAP). Pathway enrichment analysis revealed that vesicle/SNARE-associated pathways dominated PD/DLB interactions, whereas MSA was strongly enriched for metabolic/catabolic, iron, and cellular oxidant detoxification pathways. A subnetwork of cytosolic antioxidant enzymes called peroxiredoxins drove cellular detoxification pathway enrichment in MSA. A network of 26 proteins, including neuronal-specific proteins (e.g., SYNGR3) with HSPA8 at the core, was shared between MSA and DLB/PD. Extracellular exosome pathways were universally enriched regardless of the disease or BAR target protein. In conclusion, synucleinopathies have divergent and convergent alphasyn-aggregate interactions, indicating unique and shared pathogenic mechanisms. MSA uniquely involves oxidant detoxification processes in glial cells, while vesicular processes in neurons dominate PD/DLB. Shared interactions, specifically SYNGR3, between MSA and PD/DLB suggest that neuronal axons are the origin of both diseases. In conclusion, we provide alphasyn protein interaction maps for two distinct synucleinopathies.
PXD060495	40122897	Astrocyte-secreted cues promote neural maturation and augment activity in human forebrain organoids. 	Proteome of human and mouse astrocytes and astrocyte-conditioned medium	Astrocyte-conditioned medium, Astrocytes	Brain organoids have been proposed as suitable human brain model candidates for a variety of applications. However, the lack of appropriate maturation limits the transferability of such functional tools. Here, we present a method to facilitate neuronal maturation by integrating astrocyte-secreted factors into hPSC-derived 2D and 3D neural culture systems. We demonstrate that protein- and nutrient-enriched astrocyte-conditioned medium (ACM) accelerates neuronal differentiation with enlarged neuronal layer and the overproduction of deep-layer cortical neurons. We captured the elevated changes in the functional activity of neuronal networks within ACM-treated organoids using comprehensive electrophysiological recordings. Furthermore, astrocyte-secreted cues can induce lipid droplet accumulation in neural cultures, offering protective effects in neural differentiation to withstand cellular stress. Together, these data indicate the potential of astrocyte secretions to promote neural maturation.
PXD045023	40123592	Participation of gut microbiota and bacterial translocation in chronic systemic inflammation in recently diagnosed rheumatoid arthritis patients. 	Gut Microbiota and Bacterial Translocation participate in Chronic Systemic Inflammation in Rheumatoid Arthritis patients	bioinformatics, biomass, metaproteomics, microbiota	The objective of this study was to investigate the link between gut microbiota (GM) dysbiosis, gut inflammation, and bacterial translocation (BT) in recently diagnosed rheumatoid arthritis (RA). This case-control, observational study prospectively recruited recently diagnosed (<12 months) RA patients and age-matched healthy controls (HC) from two French hospitals between July 2014 to March 2018. The primary objective was to investigate GM composition in each group using 16S rRNA sequencing and metaproteomics approaches. Three plasmatic BT markers (sCD14, LPS-binding protein, and number of 16S rRNA gene copies) and one intestinal permeability marker (I-FABP) were quantified in blood samples. Twenty-five were included in each group, and 50 stools and blood samples were analyzed. 16S rRNA gene analysis showed an decrease in Coprococcus in RA patients after Body Mass Index and HLA status. Circulating bacterial DNA (number of copies of the 16S rRNA gene) and plasmatic I-FABP were higher in RA patients compared to HCs (p < 0.01), indicating increased BT and intestinal permeability in these patients. Metaproteomics from stool samples highlighted an increased host humoral immune response in RA, with elevated levels of inflammatory proteins (azurocidin, cathepsin G, neutrophil defensing 1). Gut inflammation may contribute to increased intestinal permeability, leading to BT into the systemic circulation and thus chronic inflammation.
PXD057450	40123831	Integrated Analysis of the Anoikis-Related Signature Identifies Rac Family Small GTPase 3 as a Novel Tumor-Promoter Gene in Hepatocellular Carcinoma. 	Integrated analysis of the anoikis-related signature identifies RAC3 as a novel therapeutic target in hepatocellular carcinoma	HCC, RAC3, anoikis	Anoikis resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) cells boosts survival and metastasis. This study aimed to establish an anoikis-related genes (ARGs)-based model for predicting HCC patients' outcomes and investigate the clinicopathological significance and function of crucial ARGs. The transcriptional expression patterns for HCC cohorts were compiled from TCGA, GEO and ICGC. Univariate and LASSO multivariate analyses were performed to screen for prognostic ARGs. Gain- and loss-of-function studies, RNA sequencing, and mass spectrometry were employed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms of ARGs in HCC. We established a five-gene ARGs risk model for HCC prognosis, with an AUC value of 0.812 for 1-year survival. Among the five genes, Rac family small GTPase 3 (RAC3) was upregulated in HCC relative to adjacent normal tissues and negatively correlated to overall survival and disease-free survival of patients with HCC. Silence of RAC3 in HCC cells resulted in an increased cell apoptosis and diminished cell proliferation and invasion. Mechanistically, we uncovered that RAC3 binding with SOX6 propelled the advancement of HCC cells through NNMT-mediated stimulation of the cAMP/MAPK/Rap1 signaling. In particular, EHop-016, a small molecule inhibitor targeting RAC3, significantly suppressed HCC progression.
PXD046700	40123976	Dual CARM1-and IKZF3-targeting: A novel approach to multiple myeloma therapy synergy between CARM1 inhibition and IMiDs. 	CARM1 targeting potentiates IMiD activity: a novel approach to multiple myeloma therapy	Aiolos, EZM2302, IKZF1, IKZF3, IMiD, Ikaros, multiple myeloma, synergy	Advancements in the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM) have resulted in an improvement in the survival rate. However, there continues to be an urgent need for improved therapies. The protein arginine methyltransferase, CARM1 (coactivator associated arginine methyltransferase 1), is emerging as a potential cancer therapy target and inhibitors have been developed. MM cell lines are particularly dependent on CARM1 for cell survival. Here, we show that targeting of CARM1 through small molecule inhibition potentiates the activity of immunomodulatory drugs (IMiDs) in cell line models of MM. This likely occurs through synergistic targeting of Aiolos (IKZF3) and MYC expression. Rational design of a new molecule, 074, which consists of a CARM1 inhibitor linked to the IMiD pomalidomide, was carried out and treatment with this agent led to more potent killing of MM cells than either the CARM1 inhibitor or the IMiD as single agents. Importantly, 074 was able to override IMiD resistance. Taken together, our results demonstrate that dual CARM1/IKZF3-targeting agents represent a promising novel therapeutic strategy for MM and IMiD-resistant disease.
PXD051709	40124510	Chronic low-dose rate irradiation induces transient hormesis effect on cyanobacterium Limnospira indica. 	Transit to Mars: low-dose gamma-irradiation (Co60) induces small hormesis effect on Limnospira indica, a component of the MELiSSA life support system for space exploration	arthrospira, cyanobacteria, irradiation	Cultures of Limnospira indica were exposed to low-dose rate gamma-irradiation for 8 weeks to simulate 2 months of a Mars transit irradiation. Two experiments were conducted: in the first, 5% v/v inoculations were used over 2-week batches; in the second, 25% v/v inoculations over 1-week batches. The cultures were continuously illuminated (45 mumol photons m(-2) s(-1), LEDs). A transient hormesis effect was observed in experiment 1, with irradiated cultures showing higher dry weight (1.88 +/- 0.05 g L(-1)) than controls (1.70 +/- 0.06 g L(-1)) on day 14. Irradiated cultures also had fewer pigments. Experiment 2 showed similar, though less pronounced, results. These findings suggest that Limnospira indica would not be negatively affected by cosmic radiation during Mars transit, though further validation under space flight conditions is needed. The resilience of Limnospira indica to chronic low-dose radiation supports its potential for oxygen and food production in life support systems for manned space missions.
PXD055987	40124935	Drosera rotundifolia L. as E. coli biofilm inhibitor: Insights into the mechanism of action using proteomics/metabolomics and toxicity studies. 	Sustainable Utilization of Rewetted Peatlands: Drosera rotundifolia L. as a Traditional Medicinal Plant for Developing New Phytopharmaceuticals Against Biofilm-Forming Multidrug-Resistant E. coli	3D cell culture model, cytotoxicity, drosera rotundifolia, flavonoids, iron, mode of action, naphthoquinones, polyamines	The successful sustainable cultivation of the well-known medicinal plant sundew on rewetted peatlands not only leads to the preservation of natural populations, but also provides a basis for the sustainable pharmaceutical use of the plant. The bioactive compounds of sundew, flavonoids and naphthoquinones, show biofilm-inhibiting properties against multidrug-resistant, ESBL-producing E. coli strains and open up new therapeutic possibilities. This study investigates the molecular mechanisms of these compounds in biofilm inhibition through proteomic analyses. Specific fractions of flavonoids and naphthoquinones, as well as individual substances like 7-methyljuglone and 2"-O-galloylhyperoside, are analyzed. Results show that naphthoquinones appear to act via central regulatory proteins such as OmpR and alter the stress response while flavonoids likely affect biofilm formation by creating an iron-poor environment through iron complexation and additionally influence polyamine balance, reducing intracellular spermidine levels. Further investigations including assays for iron complexation and analysis of polyamines confirmed the proteomic data. Safety evaluations through cytotoxicity tests in 3D cell cultures and the Galleria mellonella in vivo model confirm the safety of the extracts used. These findings highlight sundew as a promising candidate for new phytopharmaceuticals.
PXD057724	40126137	Vessel-On-A-Chip Coupled Proteomics Reveal Pressure-Overload-Induced Vascular Remodeling. 	Vessel-on-a-Chip Coupled Proteomics Reveal Pressure-Overload-Induced Vascular Remodeling	MOVAS cells, Vessel-on-a-chip, mouse vessel	Hypertension, the leading cause of cardiovascular disease and premature mortality, is characterized by increased vessel stretch and alterations in vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs). In this study, a vessel-on-a-chip model is developed to simulate both physiological and pathological stretch conditions alongside a mouse model of hypertension. Proteomics analysis is applied to investigate changes in VSMCs using the vessel-on-a-chip system and compared these findings with data from the mouse model. The results demonstrates that physiological stretch enhances the expression of contractile markers in VSMCs. Additionally, the chip effectively replicates cellular responses to pathological stretch and stress, including the upregulation of ERK signaling, calcium ion transport pathway, integrin signaling pathway, endoplasmic reticulum stress, toll-like receptor activation, oxidative stress, and synthesis of sphingolipids and ceramides. These findings indicate that the vessel chip successfully mimics in vivo biological events associated with hypertension. The vessel-on-a-chip system holds promise for advancing the study of vessel-related diseases and facilitating the development of novel hypertension therapeutics.
PXD055531	40126530	A Genome-Wide Synthetic Lethal Screen Identifies Spermidine Synthase as a Target to Enhance Erdafitinib Efficacy in FGFR-Mutant Bladder Cancer. 	Genome-wide synthetic lethal screen identifies SRM as a target that enhances erdafitinib efficacy in FGFR-mutant bladder cancer	Bladder cancer, erdafitinib resistance, polyamine metabolism	Mutations of the fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) family members are frequently observed in metastatic bladder cancer. The development of erdafitinib, a pan-FGFR inhibitor, provided a significant therapeutic advance in bladder cancer, but resistance still limits its efficacy. In this study, we performed an unbiased whole-genome CRISPR-Cas9 synthetic lethal screen on FGFR-mutant bladder cancer cell lines treated with erdafitinib and identified spermidine synthase (SRM) as a critical contributor to erdafitinib resistance. Moreover, hypusinated eIF5A, catalyzed by SRM-mediated spermidine production, facilitated the efficient translation of HMGA2, which in turn promoted the expression of EGFR. Notably, pharmacologic inhibition of SRM enhanced the efficacy of erdafitinib both in vitro and in vivo. Together, these results offer evidence that targeting SRM could attenuate the translation of HMGA2 and subsequently reduce EGFR transcription, thus enhancing the sensitivity of FGFR-mutant bladder cancer cells to erdafitinib treatment.
PXD059551	40127101	Optimal functioning of the Lpt bridge depends on a ternary complex between the lipocalin YedD and the LptDE translocon. 	 Optimal Functioning of the Lipopolysaccharide Transport Bridge Depends on a Ternary Complex Between the Lipocalin YedD and the LptDE Translocon	LPS, bacteria, lipocalin, outer membrane, translocon	The outer membrane is an efficient permeability barrier that protects gram-negative bacteria against external assaults, including many antibiotics. The unique permeability features of the outer membrane are due to the presence of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) molecules in its outer leaflet. LPS transport relies on the essential lipopolysaccharide transport (Lpt) pathway, which forms a bridge from the inner to the outer membrane. The LptDE translocon inserts LPS into the outer leaflet. Here, we identify the lipocalin YedD as a component of the translocon. Cryoelectron microscopy of the YedD-LptDE complex reveals that YedD binds LptD at a critical interface between its beta-barrel and periplasmic beta-taco domain. The YedD-LptDE complex is functionally relevant: under conditions where the connectivity of the beta-taco and Lpt bridge is compromised, the absence of YedD decreases cell viability and causes LPS accumulation in the inner membrane. Our findings establish YedD as an Lpt component required for optimal LPS transport.
PXD054004	40128225	Molecular basis for human respiratory syncytial virus transcriptional regulator NS1 interactions with MED25. 	Bottom-up mapping of RSV nonstructural protein 1 (NS1) for HDX-MS data analysis	HDX-MS, NS1, RSV	The Mediator complex facilitates interactions between transcription factors and RNA polymerase II, a process that is required for host gene transcription, including in response to viral infections. Among the many subunits in the Mediator complex, the MED25 subunit has been shown to be a target for viral activators during infection. Here we provide the molecular basis for the interaction between human respiratory syncytial virus (hRSV) nonstructural 1 protein (NS1) and the activator interaction domain (ACID) of MED25. The X-ray crystal structure of the complex revealed that NS1 straddles and binds two faces of MED25 ACID. This interaction is distinct from previously known viral activators. Importantly, our data support the conformational flexibility of viral transcriptional regulators. Furthermore, ChIP-seq and RNA-seq analysis identified the ATF3 transcription factor and a role for NS1/Mediator/ATF3 interaction in host gene regulation in hRSV infections. Our findings provide a molecular basis for hRSV NS1-based regulation of host gene transcription and reveal how viruses exploit the conformational heterogeneity at fuzzy transcription activator interfaces.
PXD055974	40128715	The olfactory receptor OR51E2 regulates prostate cancer aggressiveness and modulates STAT3 in prostate cancer cells and in xenograft tumors. 	Proteomic analysis of LNCaP wildtype (WT) and LNCaP OR51E2-knock out xenograft mouse tumor tissue	OR51E2, Prostate Cancer, STAT3, Xenograft.	BACKGROUND: Despite advancements in the detection and treatment of prostate cancer, the molecular mechanisms underlying its progression remain unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of the receptor OR51E2, which is commonly upregulated in prostate cancer, in the progression of this disease. METHODS: We investigated the physiological effects of OR51E2 through CRISPR-Cas9-induced monoclonal OR51E2 knockout. We assessed in vitro and in vivo tumorigenicity and conducted transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of xenograft tumors derived from these knockout cells. Furthermore, we analyzed the effects of differences in OR51E2-expression levels in patients from a TCGA cohort. RESULTS: OR51E2-knockout cells exhibited increased proliferation, migration, adhesion, anchorage-independent colony formation, and tumor growth rates, resulting in a more aggressive cancer phenotype. Omics analyses revealed several potential pathways associated with significant molecular changes, notably an aberration in the STAT3 pathway linked to IL-6 signaling, highlighting a connection to inflammatory pathways. TCGA cohort analysis revealed that prostate cancer patients with low tumor OR51E2 expression had a worse prognosis and a higher average Gleason grade than those with higher expression levels. Additionally, this analysis supported the putative OR51E2-related modulation of the STAT3 pathway. CONCLUSIONS: OR51E2 is regulated throughout prostate cancer progression and actively influences cancer cell physiology affecting cancer aggressiveness. Reduced OR51E2 expression may adversely affect patient outcomes, potentially through alterations in the STAT3 pathway that impact cellular responses to inflammatory signaling.
PXD005997	40129242	Tonic signaling of the B-cell antigen-specific receptor is a common functional hallmark in chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell phosphoproteomes at early disease stages. 	Analysis of phosphorylation sites in CLL samples	B cells, CLL, PTM	B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL) is characterized by highly heterogeneous genomic alterations and altered signaling pathways, with limited studies on its proteome. Our study presents a comprehensive analysis of the proteome and phosphoproteome in B-CLL and CLL-like monoclonal B-cell lymphocytosis (MBL) primary cells. Using high-resolution mass spectrometry, we identified 2970 proteins and 316 phosphoproteins across five tumor samples, including 55 newly identified phosphopeptides (ProteomeXchange-PXD005997). Our multifaceted approach also integrated protein microarrays and western blotting for further data validation in a new patient cohort of 14 patients. Despite sharing 73% of their proteomes, the phosphoproteomes varied significantly among samples, independent of cytogenetic alterations and immunoglobulin heavy variable cluster (IGHV) mutational status. We identified common functional hallmarks in B-CLL and MBL phosphoproteomes, notably tonic signaling (low-level, constitutive signaling) of the B-cell antigen-specific receptor (BCR) and nuclear factor NF-kappa-B (NF-kbeta)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathways. Nine phosphoproteins involved in BCR signaling were further validated, showing a high correlation with early disease stages. Our study advances the field by providing a detailed perspective on the proteome and phosphoproteome of B-CLL cells, revealing signaling pathways crucial for disease development and progression. Integrating diverse proteomics techniques and identifying novel phosphopeptides offers new insights into CLL biology, potentially informing future therapeutic strategies and biomarker development for early diagnosis and personalized treatment.
PXD054001	40129297	Targeting the AKT/mTOR pathway attenuates the metastatic potential of colorectal carcinoma circulating tumor cells in a murine xenotransplantation model. 	Targeting the AKT/mTOR pathway attenuates the metastatic potential of colorectal carcinoma circulating tumor cells in a murine xenotransplantation model	AKT isoforms, CTCs, MK2206, PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, RAD001, colorectal carcinoma, drug sensitivity assays, dual targeting, personalized medicine, targeted therapy, xenotransplantation model	Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) play an important role in metastasis formation. Aberrant signaling of oncogenic pathways (e.g., PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway) drives tumor progression. In this work, the susceptibility of the colon cancer CTC-derived cell line CTC-MCC-41 to AKT and mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitors was evaluated. Additionally, the functional role of the expressed AKT isoforms was characterized in this cell line. The efficacy of the AKT inhibitor MK2206, the mTOR inhibitor RAD001, and the combination was examined in CTC-MCC-41 cells in a murine intracardiac xenotransplantation model. Furthermore, stable isoform-specific AKT1 or AKT2 knockdowns (KDs) as well as AKT1/AKT2 double-KD cells were generated. Differentially regulated proteins and phospho-peptides were identified using liquid chromatography coupled mass spectrometry (LC-MS). CTC-MCC-41 cells showed a high susceptibility for dual targeting of AKT and mTOR in vivo, indicating that selective eradication of CTCs by AKT/mTOR inhibitors may be considered a new treatment option in cancer. KD of AKT1 or AKT2 significantly reduced the proliferation of CTC-MCC-41 cells. AKT KDs share commonly regulated proteins and phospho-proteins, but also regulate a large number uniquely. AKT1/AKT2 double-KD cells show a strongly dysregulated replication machinery, as well as a decrease in cell cycle activity and stem-cell-associated processes, underlining the non-redundant role of AKT isoforms.
PXD050157	40131933	KRAS G12V mutation-selective requirement for ACSS2 in colorectal adenoma formation. 	KRAS mutation-selective requirement for ACSS2 in colorectal adenoma formation	ACSS2, Colorectal Cancer, KRAS	Oncogenic KRAS mutations are prevalent in colorectal cancer (CRC) and linked to poor prognosis and therapeutic resistance. Emerging evidence suggests that specific KRAS mutations differentially influence treatment responses. In this study, we generate isogenic Apc-null mouse colon epithelial cells with four common KRAS mutations. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses reveal significant enrichment of cholesterol and lipid metabolism pathways in KRAS G12V cells, driven by increased SREBP1 expression and mTORC1 activation. Furthermore, KRAS G12V cells exhibit elevated ACSS2 expression and greater dependence on ACSS2 for proliferative advantage compared to other mutants. Inhibition of ACSS2 uniquely sensitizes KRAS G12V cells to MEK inhibition, highlighting a distinct therapeutic vulnerability. Finally, ACSS2 plays a critical role in early KRAS G12V adenoma development, unlike in KRAS G12D adenomas. These findings highlight mutation-specific metabolic reprogramming in KRAS-driven CRC and identify ACSS2 as a potential therapeutic target.
PXD060731	40132582	UbiREAD deciphers proteasomal degradation code of homotypic and branched K48 and K63 ubiquitin chains. 	UbiREAD deciphers proteasomal degradation code of homotypic and branched K48 and K63 ubiquitin chains	K48, K63, Ubiquitin, branched ubiquitin chains, deubiquitination, electroporation, proteasome, protein degradation, proteostasis, ubiquitin code	Ubiquitin chains define the fates of their modified proteins, often mediating proteasomal degradation in eukaryotes. Yet heterogeneity of intracellular ubiquitination has precluded systematically comparing the degradation capacities of different ubiquitin chains. We developed ubiquitinated reporter evaluation after intracellular delivery (UbiREAD), a technology that monitors cellular degradation and deubiquitination at high temporal resolution after bespoke ubiquitinated proteins are delivered into human cells. Comparing the degradation of a model substrate modified with various K48, K63, or K48/K63-branched ubiquitin chains revealed fundamental differences in their intracellular degradation capacities. K48 chains with three or more ubiquitins triggered degradation within minutes. K63-ubiquitinated substrate was rapidly deubiquitinated rather than degraded. Surprisingly, in K48/K63-branched chains, substrate-anchored chain identity determined the degradation and deubiquitination behavior, establishing that branched chains are not the sum of their parts. UbiREAD reveals a degradation code for ubiquitin chains varying by linkage, length, and topology and a functional hierarchy within branched ubiquitin chains.
PXD057272	40132644	C-terminal glycosylation of type IX secretion system cargo proteins in Prevotella intermedia with both short and long secretion signals. 	C-terminal glycosylation of type IX secretion system cargo proteins in Prevotella intermedia bearing both short and long secretion signals	Prevotella intermedia, alaninamide, glycosylation, protein secretion, secretion signal, surface proteins	Prevotella intermedia is a Gram-negative bacterium that is associated with periodontitis and acute necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis. P. intermedia utilizes the type IX secretion system (T9SS) to secrete and anchor virulence factors to the cell surface, presumably via C-terminal glycosylation. The identity of the linking sugar and the sites of modification on the cargo are unknown. Here, we employed hidden Markov models to predict cargo proteins in P. intermedia and conducted LC-MS/MS analyses of partially deglycosylated fractions to characterize the C-terminal glycosylation. A total of 80 cargo proteins were predicted based on the presence of a T9SS C-terminal domain (CTD) signal, and these were divided into 48 short CTDs and 32 long CTDs. Cleavage sites for five short and four long CTDs were experimentally determined, and glycosylation was observed at the mature C-terminus of six cargo. Two glycans were identified of delta masses 419.198 and 433.185 Da, corresponding to novel C-terminal amide linkages to N-alanyl dHex-HexNAc and N-alanyl (Me-dHex)-HexNAc, respectively. This indicated that both short and long CTDs supported cleavage and glycosylation. AlphaFold multimer modelling predicted that both kinds of CTDs could bind to the PorV shuttle protein in the same manner, with the conserved CTD motifs interacting with the same sites in PorV.
PXD055337	40132675	CCR1 inhibition sensitizes multiple myeloma cells to glucocorticoid therapy. 	CCR1 inhibition sensitizes multiple myeloma cells to glucocorticoid therapy	BX471, CCR1, Dexamethasone, Glucocorticoids, Myeloma	Glucocorticoids (GC) are cornerstone drugs in the treatment of multiple myeloma (MM). Because MM cells exploit the bone marrow microenvironment to obtain growth and survival signals, resistance to glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis emerges, yet the underlying mechanisms remain poorly characterized. Here, we identify that the chemokine receptor CCR1, together with its main ligand CCL3, plays a pivotal role in reducing the glucocorticoid sensitivity of MM cells. We show that blocking CCR1 signaling with the antagonist BX471 enhances the anti-MM effects of the glucocorticoid dexamethasone in MM cell lines, primary patient material and a myeloma xenograft mouse model. Mechanistically, the drug combination shifts the balance between pro- and antiapoptotic proteins towards apoptosis and deregulates lysosomal proteins. Our findings suggest that CCR1 may play a role in glucocorticoid resistance, as the GC-induced downregulation of CCR1 mRNA and protein is blunted in a GC-resistance onset model. Moreover, we demonstrate that inhibiting CCR1 partially reverses this resistance, providing a promising strategy for resensitizing MM cells to GC treatment.
PXD056424	40133237	Effect of Capacitation on Proteomic Profile and Mitochondrial Parameters of Spermatozoa in Bulls. 	Effect of capacitation on proteomic profile and mitochondrial parameters of spermatozoa in bulls	bovine, mitochondria, spermatozoa	Sperm capacitation is a critical process for fertilization. This work aims to analyze the effect in vitro capacitation had on the proteome and mitochondrial parameters of bull spermatozoa. Viability, mitochondrial membrane potential (MMP), and reactive oxygen species (mROS) were assessed by flow cytometry in noncapacitated (NC) and in vitro capacitated (IVC) sperm. Proteome was evaluated using SWATH-MS. In vitro capacitation significantly induced a decrease in sperm viability, a high MMP, and an increase in mROS production. Within the group of living spermatozoa, the capacitation significantly induced a decrease in healthy mitochondrial spermatozoa, as well as an increase in mROS production, without affecting the MMP intensity. A total number of 72 differentially abundant proteins were found of which 63 were over-represented in the NC sperm group and 9 in the IVC sperm group. It was observed that many proteins associated with the sperm membrane and acrosome were lost during the capacitation process. For the IVC sperm, the functional enrichment was found in proteins related to the oxidative phosphorylation process. Our results indicate that the capacitation process induces a significant loss of seminal plasma-derived membrane proteins and a significant increase in proteins related with the oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) pathway. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD056424 and PXD042286.
PXD055868	40133252	XIAP promotes metastasis of bladder cancer cells by ubiquitylating YTHDC1. 	XIAP promotes metastasis of bladder cancer cells by ubiquitylating YTHDC1	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), bladder cancer invasion/ubiquitylation/XIAP/YTHDC1/MMP-2	X-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP), a member of the IAP family, is overexpressed in a variety of tumors and plays an important role in tumor progression. Increasing evidence suggests that XIAP promotes metastasis of bladder cancer but the underlying mechanism is not very clear. The RNA N6-methyladenosine (m(6)A) reader YTHDC1 regulates RNA splicing, nuclear transport, and mRNA stability and is a potential tumor target; however, its ubiquitin E3 ligase has not been described. In this study, screening of proteins that specifically interact with XIAP identified YTHDC1 as its degradation substrate. Ectopic overexpression of XIAP promoted degradation of YTHDC1, and knockout of XIAP upregulated YTHDC1, which inhibited metastasis of bladder cancer. Furthermore, YTHDC1 reduced the expression of matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) by destabilizing its mRNA. These experiments revealed that XIAP promotes ubiquitination of YTHDC1, positively regulating expression of the MMP-2 and promoting metastasis of bladder cancer. Collectively, these findings demonstrate that XIAP is a critical regulator of YTHDC1 and pinpoint the XIAP/YTHDC1/MMP-2 axis as a promising target for the treatment of bladder cancer.
PXD061148	40133256	The ER-phagy receptor FAM134B is targeted by Salmonella Typhimurium to promote infection. 	The ER-phagy receptor FAM134B is targeted by Salmonella Typhimurium to promote infection	AP-MS SopF FAM134B	Macroautophagy/autophagy is a key catabolic-recycling pathway that can selectively target damaged organelles or invading pathogens for degradation. The selective autophagic degradation of the endoplasmic reticulum (hereafter referred to as ER-phagy) is a homeostatic mechanism, controlling ER size, the removal of misfolded protein aggregates, and organelle damage. ER-phagy can also be stimulated by pathogen infection. However, the link between ER-phagy and bacterial infection remains poorly understood, as are the mechanisms evolved by pathogens to escape the effects of ER-phagy. Here, we show that Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium inhibits ER-phagy by targeting the ER-phagy receptor FAM134B, leading to a pronounced increase in Salmonella burden after invasion. Salmonella prevents FAM134B oligomerization, which is required for efficient ER-phagy. FAM134B knock-out raises intracellular Salmonella number, while FAM134B activation reduces Salmonella burden. Additionally, we found that Salmonella targets FAM134B through the bacterial effector SopF to enhance intracellular survival through ER-phagy inhibition. Furthermore, FAM134B knock-out mice infected with Salmonella presented severe intestinal damage and increased bacterial burden. These results provide mechanistic insight into the interplay between ER-phagy and bacterial infection, highlighting a key role for FAM134B in innate immunity.
PXD053766	40133363	Fibroblast-derived osteoglycin promotes epithelial cell repair. 	Fibroblast-derived osteoglycin promotes epithelial cell repair	COPD, epithial cells, ostyglycin	There is an urgent need for innovative therapies targeting defective epithelial repair in chronic diseases like COPD. The mesenchymal niche is a critical regulator in epithelial stem cell activation, suggesting that their secreted factors are possible potent drug targets. Utilizing a proteomics-guided drug discovery strategy, we explored the lung fibroblast secretome to uncover impactful drug targets. Our lung organoid assays identified several regenerative ligands, with osteoglycin (OGN) showing the most profound effects. Transcriptomic analyses revealed that OGN enhances alveolar progenitor differentiation, detoxifies reactive oxygen species, and strengthens fibroblast-epithelial crosstalk. OGN expression was diminished in COPD patients and smoke-exposed mice. An active fragment of OGN (leucine-rich repeat regions 4-7) replicated full-length OGN's regenerative effects, significantly ameliorating elastase-induced lung injury in lung slices and improving lung function in vivo. These findings highlight OGN as a pivotal secreted protein for alveolar epithelial repair, positioning its active fragment as a promising therapeutic for COPD.
PXD056760	40135073	Identification and characterization of the elusive protein backbone of the immuno-dominant and species-specific Em2(G11) metacestode antigen of Echinococcus multilocularis. 	Identification and characterization of the elusive protein backbone of the immuno-dominant and specific Em2(G11) metacestode antigen of Echinococcus multilocularis	Em2, Em2(G11)	Alveolar echinococcosis (AE) caused by Echinococcus multilocularis, is a severe zoonotic disease in humans. One of the major metacestode antigens of E. multilocularis is the Em2 or Em2(G11) native purified antigen. The Em2 antigen is used for the serological and histopathological diagnosis of AE in humans and plays an important role in parasite-host interactions. As the Em2(G11) antigen is a mucin-type and glycosylated protein, the protein backbone has not been identified yet. We have targeted the protein backbone identification through mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis of the Em2(G11) antigen. As a result, we evidenced that the Em2(G11) antigen consists of 33 unique protein candidates of which the most abundant was ''EmuJ_001105600.1''. This protein (889 amino acids) had 427 predicted glycosylation sites. Amino acid composition comparison was in agreement with earlier studies and further confirmed the candidate of interest as the most likely Em2(G11) protein backbone. NCBI BLAST revealed no other known protein homologues in related Echinococcus species nor helminths. After successfully producing this protein recombinantly (Em2rec), a monoclonal antibody (mAbEm2rec) was raised against it. Immunohistochemical stainings of liver tissue sections of AE patients showed that the mAbEm2rec reacts specifically with E. multilocularis antigens solely after deglycosylation with an O-glycosidase cocktail. Similarly, in ELISA, the mAbEm2rec recognized the recombinant and native antigens of E. multilocularis after deglycosylation. These results reveal the nature of this highly glycosylated and specific protein, where mucins are covering the proteomic backbone. For antibody detection in human patients, the native Em2(G11) antigen was superior compared to the Em2rec antigen, indicating the importance of glycosylated epitopes in this immuno-dominant antigen. Of note is the second most abundant protein in the Em2(G11) antigen, namely phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK; EmuJ_000292700.1). PEPCK is known to play an important part in the metabolic pathway of gluconeogenesis in E. multilocularis. However, whether this co-eluted protein has any functional importance in the parasite-host interplay of nutrients, growth, and diagnostic significance, is not explored. By combining various approaches, we were able to uncover and confirm the protein backbone of the diagnostic Em2(G11) antigen of E. multilocularis.
PXD052783	40135791	Chemotherapy-Mediated Induction of PD-L1 via SEI1 Facilitates Myeloma Immune Evasion. 	Chemotherapy-mediated induction of PD-L1 via SEI1 facilitates myeloma immune evasion		Multiple myeloma (MM) is a plasma cell-derived malignancy. While immune checkpoint blockade immunotherapy has advanced myeloma treatment, chemotherapy remains the primary therapy. How chemotherapy interacts with immune checkpoint expression and impacts immunotherapy efficacy remains unclear. Here it is discovered that chemotherapeutic drugs induce DNA damage and activate the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP)-adenosine monophosphate (AMP) synthase (cGAS)/stimulator of interferon genes (STING) signaling pathway. This activation promotes phosphorylation of the interferon regulatory factor 7 (IRF7), which binds to the promoter region of SERTA-containing domain 1 (SERTAD1, also called SEI1) gene to enhance its transcription. The SEI1 directly interacts with the enhancer factors CREB-binding protein (CBP)/p300 and RNA polymerase II (pol II)-associated factor 1 (PAF1) complex, promoting transcriptional activity and leading to upregulation of programmed death ligand-1 (PD-L1) and immune escape in myeloma. Both in vitro and in vivo experiments demonstrate that treating myeloma cells with PD-L1 antibodies post-chemotherapy significantly enhances the killing efficiency of activated T cells, compared to sequential treatment with chemotherapy and PD-L1 antibodies. This research not only uncovers a pivotal regulatory mechanism of PD-L1 upregulation but also provides a compelling rationale for the integration of chemotherapy and immunotherapy in myeloma treatment.
PXD059489	40135890	ZYG11B suppresses multiple enteroviruses by triggering viral VP1 degradation. 	Host proteins interacting with EV71-VP2 were identified by mass spectrometry	EV71, Interacting host proteins, VP2	Enterovirus 71 (EV71) is a major cause of hand, foot, and mouth disease, particularly affecting pediatric populations worldwide. The role of ZYG11B, a CUL2-complex-associated E3 ubiquitin ligase from the Zyg-11 family, in antiviral defense against EV71 remains unclear. To our knowledge, this study is the first to reveal that ZYG11B targets EV71 VP1 for proteasomal degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, with CRL2(ZYG11B) complex activity specifically driving K33-linked ubiquitination. Mass spectrometry and immunoprecipitation analyses confirmed the interaction between ZYG11B and VP1 and identified key domains required for binding both VP1 and CUL2. Comparative analyses showed that VP1 ubiquitination sites are highly conserved across related enteroviruses, including CA6, CA16, and EVD68. Functional assays further demonstrated that ZYG11B restricts these viruses, highlighting its potential as a broad-spectrum antiviral target. These findings establish ZYG11B as a critical effector in host antiviral responses and support its therapeutic potential for managing enterovirus infections. IMPORTANCE: E3 ubiquitin ligases and deubiquitinases have become important topics of competition between viruses and hosts. Here, we identified CRL2(ZYG11B) as an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex capable of degrading structural protein VP1 of enteroviruses, making ZYG11B a broad-spectrum antiviral factor. We first proposed the inhibitory effect of ZYG11B on viruses and identified the structural domains of ZYG11B connecting substrates and CUL2, providing new targets for the design of antiviral drugs.
PXD058744	40136647	GATAD2B O-GlcNAcylation Regulates Breast Cancer Stem-like Potential and Drug Resistance. 	GATAD2B O-GlcNAcylation regulates breast cancer stem-like potential and drug resistance	: OGT, GATAD2B, NuRD, O-GlcNAc, cancer, cancer stem cell, chemoresistance, signaling	The growth of breast tumors is driven and controlled by a subpopulation of cancer cells resembling adult stem cells, which are called cancer stem-like cells (CSCs). In breast cancer, the function and maintenance of CSCs are influenced by protein O-GlcNAcylation and the enzyme responsible for this post-translational modification, O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT). However, the mechanism of CSCs regulation by OGT and O-GlcNAc cycling in breast cancer is still unclear. Analysis of the proteome and O-GlcNAcome, revealed GATAD2B, a component of the Nucleosome Remodeling and Deacetylase (NuRD) complex, as a substrate regulated by OGT. Reducing GATAD2B genetically impairs mammosphere formation, decreases expression of self-renewal factors and CSCs population. O-GlcNAcylation of GATAD2B at the C-terminus protects GATAD2B from ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation in breast cancer cells. We identify ITCH as a novel E3 ligase for GATAD2B and show that targeting ITCH genetically increases GATAD2B levels and increases CSCs phenotypes. Lastly, we show that overexpression of wild-type GATAD2B, but not the mutant lacking C-terminal O-GlcNAc sites, promotes mammosphere formation, expression of CSCs factors and drug resistance. Together, we identify a key role of GATAD2B and ITCH in regulating CSCs in breast cancer and GATAD2B O-GlcNAcylation as a mechanism regulating breast cancer stem-like populations and promoting chemoresistance.
PXD058217	40137230	A Preliminary Exploration of Transcriptome and Proteomic Changes During the Young and Harvest Periods in Morchella sextelata. 	Proteomic and transcriptome analysis of DIA protein in Morchella edulis	DIA, Morchella sextelataa, protein	Based on transcriptome and proteome sequencing technologies, this study aims to preliminarily reveal the molecular mechanisms of growth and development and related metabolic regulation in Morchella sextelat. A total of 42.31 GB of Clean Data was acquired from the transcriptome sequencing (RNA-seq) of six samples in two development phases (n = 3) of M. sextelata. In the young phase (YP) and harvest phase (HP), there were 2887 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), including 1910 up-regulated genes and 977 down-regulated genes. In YP and HP, there were 987 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), including 417 up-regulated ones and 570 down-regulated ones. Based on GO and KEGG analysis, significant differences in the transcriptomes and proteins in metabolic pathways are disclosed. Glycometabolism, especially starch, saccharose, and polysaccharide metabolism, plays a crucial role in the growth of M. sextelata. In addition, expression changes in the genes related to selenium metabolism are here recognized. These research results not only offer strong support for further exploration of the biological significance and functional differences of M. sextelata, but are also conducive to discovering key genes and understanding their regulation network during growth.
PXD044706	40138452	An advanced toolset to manipulate and monitor subcellular phosphatidylinositol 3,5-bisphosphate. 	Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange of PIKfyve construct with PI3P vesicles and inhibitors	APY0201, Apilimod, HDXMS, MOMIPP, PI3P, PIKfyve, YM-201636	Phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3,5-bisphosphate (PI(3,5)P2) is a minor inositol-containing phospholipid that serves as an important regulator of endolysosomal functions. However, the precise sites of subcellular enrichment and molecular targets of this regulatory lipid are poorly understood. Here, we describe the generation and detailed characterization of a short engineered catalytic fragment of the human PIKfyve enzyme, which potently converts PI 3-phosphate to PI(3,5)P2. This novel tool allowed for the evaluation of reported PI(3,5)P2-sensitive biosensors and showed that the recently identified phox homology (PX) domain of the Dictyostelium discoideum (Dd) protein, SNXA, can be used to monitor the production of PI(3,5)P2 in live cells. Modification and adaptation of the DdSNXAPX-based probes into compartment-specific bioluminescence resonance energy transfer-based biosensors allows for the real-time monitoring of PI(3,5)P2 generation within the endocytic compartments of entire cell populations. Collectively, these molecular tools should allow for exciting new studies to better understand the cellular processes controlled by localized PI(3,5)P2 metabolism.
PXD051541	40139193	Bacterial XopR subverts RIN4 complex-mediated plant immunity via plasma membrane-associated percolation. 	XopR-mRuby2-TurboID and mRuby2-TurboID AP results in arabidopsis	TurboID, XopR	Phytobacteria release type 3 effectors (T3Es) abundant in intrinsically disordered regions (IDRs) to undermine plant defenses. How flexible IDRs contribute to T3Es' function in subverting plant immunity remains unclear. Here, we identify a plant plasma membrane (PM)-associated macromolecular condensation mechanism that governs the sophisticated interplay between T3E XopR and the plant's Resistance to Pseudomonas syringae pv. maculicola 1 (RPM1)-interacting protein 4 (RIN4) immune complex. Upon deployment into plants, XopR undergoes PM association, percolation clustering, and spanning networking on the PM, ranging from subnanomolar to tens of nanomolar. This spatiotemporal building of the XopR network enables an efficient manipulation of plant surface immune regulators, including a coiled-coil nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat receptor (CNL)-guardee complex with highly disordered RIN4. When XopR hijacks and fluidizes the RIN4-RPM1 condensates, Arabidopsis shows reduced RIN4 phosphorylation and diminished RPM1-activated defense in vivo, consistent with XopR-impaired RIN4 phosphorylation by RPM1-interacting protein kinase (RIPK). Our research illuminates the mechanism underlying the dynamic interplay between bacterial T3Es and plant receptor complex condensates during infection.
PXD057729	40140444	The effects and mechanisms of Xiaoyao San on nonalcoholic fatty liver disease rat based on transcriptomics and proteomics analysis. 	Mechanism and Experimental Verification of Xiaoyao San in the Treatment of Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease in Rats Using Transcriptomics and Proteomics Analysis	Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, Xiaoyao San, transcriptomics	Nonalcoholic Fatty Liver Disease (NAFLD) is characterized by excessive lipid accumulation in hepatocytes and is closely associated with metabolic disturbances such as obesity, dyslipidemia, and insulin resistance. Despite its increasing prevalence and potential progression to severe liver conditions, there is currently no approved pharmaceutical intervention for NAFLD. Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) formulations, such as Xiaoyao San (XYS), have shown therapeutic efficacy in treating NAFLD, but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. This study employed a multi-omics approach to elucidate the therapeutic mechanisms of XYS in NAFLD. A rat model of NAFLD was established using a high-fat diet (HFD). The chemical constituents of XYS were analyzed using UPLC-MS/MS. Transcriptomics and proteomics analyses were performed to identify potential biological targets and signaling pathways involved in the therapeutic effects of XYS. The results were validated using ELISA and Western blotting. UPLC-MS/MS identified 225 prototype chemical components of XYS in the blood. XYS significantly reduced body weight, liver index, and Lee's index in NAFLD model rats. It ameliorated HFD-induced hepatic steatosis, down-regulated serum levels of ALT, AST, GGT, TG, TC, LDL-C, FBG, IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha, and ROS, and up-regulated HDL-C levels. Transcriptomics and proteomics analyses revealed that XYS modulated key signaling pathways, including cAMP, TGF-beta, NF-kappaB, and necroptosis. Specifically, XYS down-regulated the expressions of NF-kappaB, p-NF-kappaB, FOXO1, TGF-beta1, RIP3, and p-MLKL, while up-regulating cAMP, PKA, p-PKA, and PPARalpha. XYS improves NAFLD by regulating the cAMP/PKA-mediated PPARalpha, FOXO1, and NF-kappaB signaling pathways. This study provides a comprehensive understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of XYS in NAFLD and supports its potential as a novel therapeutic intervention for this condition.
PXD058840	40140626	Reversible histone deacetylase activity catalyzes lysine acylation. 	Reversible histone deacetylase activity catalyzes lysine acylation	lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation, post-translational modification	The dynamic modification of proteins by many metabolites suggests an intimate link between energy metabolism and post-translational modifications (PTMs). For instance, starvation and low-carbohydrate diets lead to the accumulation of beta-hydroxybutyrate (BHB), whose blood concentrations can reach millimolar levels, concomitant with the accumulation of lysine beta-hydroxybutyrylation (Kbhb) of proteins. Here we report that class I histone deacetylases (HDACs) unexpectedly catalyze the formation of Kbhb. Through mutational analysis, we show a shared reliance on key active site amino acids for classical deacetylation and noncanonical HDAC-catalyzed beta-hydroxybutyrylation. On the basis of these data, we propose that HDACs catalyze a condensation reaction between the free amine group on lysine and the BHB carboxylic acid, thereby generating an amide bond. This reversible HDAC activity is not limited to BHB and extends to multiple short-chain fatty acids, representing a novel mechanism of PTM deposition relevant to metabolically sensitive proteome modifications.
PXD061009	40140646	Combined targeting of glioblastoma stem cells of different cellular states disrupts malignant progression. 	GSC 2907 SRGN IP mass spectrometry	Human GSC SRGN MS	Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most lethal primary brain tumor with intra-tumoral hierarchy of glioblastoma stem cells (GSCs). The heterogeneity of GSCs within GBM inevitably leads to treatment resistance and tumor recurrence. Molecular mechanisms of different cellular state GSCs remain unclear. Here, we find that classical (CL) and mesenchymal (MES) GSCs are enriched in reactive immune region and high CL-MES signature informs poor prognosis in GBM. Through integrated analyses of GSCs RNA sequencing and single-cell RNA sequencing datasets, we identify specific GSCs targets, including MEOX2 for the CL GSCs and SRGN for the MES GSCs. MEOX2-NOTCH and SRGN-NFkappaB axes play important roles in promoting proliferation and maintaining stemness and subtype signatures of CL and MES GSCs, respectively. In the tumor microenvironment, MEOX2 and SRGN mediate the resistance of CL and MES GSCs to macrophage phagocytosis. Using genetic and pharmacologic approaches, we identify FDA-approved drugs targeting MEOX2 and SRGN. Combined CL and MES GSCs targeting demonstrates enhanced efficacy, both in vitro and in vivo. Our results highlighted a therapeutic strategy for the elimination of heterogeneous GSCs populations through combinatorial targeting of MEOX2 and SRGN in GSCs.
PXD061782	40140922	Exosome-transmitted HSPA9 facilitates bortezomib resistance by targeting TRIP13/USP1 signaling in multiple myeloma. 	Exosome-transmitted HSPA9 facilitates bortezomib signaling in multiple myeloma	LC-MS, multiple myeloma	BACKGROUND: Resistance to the proteasome inhibitor bortezomib (BTZ) poses a formidable therapeutic challenge in multiple myeloma (MM). Our study aims to analyze the mechanism by which exosomes heat shock 70 kDa protein 9 (HSPA9) secreted by BTZ-resistant MM cells disseminate resistance to BTZ-sensitive MM cells. METHODS: The serum exosomes were identified by nanoparticle tracking analysis and transmission electron microscopy. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and public databases were performed to screen exosomes HSPA9. Cell counting kit-8, western blotting and colony formation assay were used to detected the role of HSPA9 protein in vitro. Co-immunoprecipitation, immunofluorescence and protein truncation test experiments were used to determine the regulatory network of the HSPA9-USP1-TRIP13 complex. Optical imaging in vivo and xenograft mouse models were performed to investigate that exosomes HSPA9 promoted MM proliferation and BTZ resistance. RESULTS: We demonstrated that HSPA9 was highly expressed in serum exosomes and BTZ-resistant MM patients. Knockdown of HSPA9 significantly suppressed tumorigenesis and reversed BTZ resistance in vitro. As a downstream molecular of HSPA9, thyroid hormone receptor-interacting protein 13 (TRIP13) was also highly expressed in BTZ-resistant MM patients. Mechanistically, the carboxyl-terminal peptide-binding domain of HSPA9, provides a platform for recruiting the deubiquitinating enzyme ubiquitin-specific peptidase 1 (USP1), which prevents TRIP13 protein degradation. The HSPA9-USP1-TRIP13 complex exhibits stability in the cytoplasm, and its inhibition remarkably enhances BTZ resistance in vito. CONCLUSION: Our findings propose a pioneering molecular regulatory network in which MM-cell-derived exosomes HSPA9 transmitted BTZ resistance through the USP1/TRIP13 signaling pathway. This research highlights exosomes HSPA9 as a promising target to overcome MM BTZ resistance.
PXD060270	40141052	Novel Phenotypical and Biochemical Findings in Mucolipidosis Type II. 	Novel phenotypical and biochemical findings in mucolipidosis type II	Mucolipidosis II-III, biochemistry, biomarkers, early findings, lysosomal diseases., proteomic studies	Mucolipidosis type II is a very rare lysosomal disease affecting the UDP-GlcNAc N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase enzyme, which catalyzes the synthesis of the targeting signal mannose 6-phosphate in lysosomal acid hydrolases. Its deficiency hinders the arrival of lysosomal enzymes to the lysosome, diminishing the multiple degradations of components that cells need to perform. Due to the low prevalence of this condition, available information is scarce. This article aims to deepen the understanding of the disease; clinical, biochemical, and proteomic data are analyzed. Three patients have been identified presenting GNPTAB pathogenic variants using whole exome sequencing. A biochemical profile for these patients has been carried out through quantification of glycosaminoglycans in urine samples and enzymatic analysis in dried blood spot (DBS) samples. Quantitative proteomic studies were performed. Results show how enzymatic assays in DBS can be used to diagnose this disease both during the neonatal period or in patients of more advanced age. Increased levels of acid sphingomyelinase, alpha-iduronidase, iduronidate 2-sulfatase, alpha-N-acetyl glucosaminidase, and beta-glucuronidase are found. Conclusion: this biochemical method could potentially improve early diagnosis. Proteomic data supporting these results reveal disrupted biochemical pathways, including the degradation of dermatan sulfate, heparan sulfate, and cellular cholesterol trafficking.
PXD061023	40141405	Seco-Duocarmycin SA in Aggressive Glioblastoma Cell Lines. 	Preclinical Evaluation of seco-Duocarmycin SA in Aggressive Glioblastoma Cell Lines	cellular  mechanisms, duocarmycin, glioblastoma multiforme, potency, proof of concept, resistance, seco-DSA	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is among the most lethal primary brain tumors and is characterized by significant cellular heterogeneity and resistance to conventional therapies. This study investigates the efficacy of seco-duocarmycin SA (seco-DSA), a novel DNA alkylating agent. Initial investigations using a colony formation assay revealed that seco-DSA exhibits remarkable potential with IC50 values lower than its natural DSA counterpart. Cell viability assay indicated that LN18 cells showed a markedly greater sensitivity to DSA than T98G cells. Furthermore, seco-DSA achieved its full cytotoxic effect within 8 h of drug incubation in GBM cell lines. Although seco-DSA induced a concentration-dependent increase in apoptotic cell death, the extent of apoptosis did not fully account for the observed decrease in cell viability. Instead, seco-DSA treatment resulted in significant cell cycle arrest in S and G2/M phases. These findings suggest that seco-DSA's cytotoxicity in GBM cells is primarily due to its ability to disrupt cell cycle progression, though the precise mechanisms of action remain to be fully established, and further research is needed. Proteomic analysis of treated cells also indicates dysregulation of proteins involved in senescence, apoptosis, and DNA repair, alluding to seco-DSA-induced arrest as a major mechanism of GBM disruption. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the dataset identifier "PXD061023". Our reports promote the future exploration of seco-DSA's therapeutic potential, representing a critical step toward developing a more targeted and effective treatment for GBM.
PXD061195	40143373	Comparative Interactome Profiling of Nonstructural Protein 3 Across SARS-CoV-2 Variants Emerged During the COVID-19 Pandemic. 	Comparative Interactome Profiling of Nonstructural Protein 3 Across  SARS-CoV-2 Variants Emerged During the COVID-19 Pandemic	affinity purification-mass spectrometry, nsp3, variants, virus-host interactions	SARS-CoV-2 virus and its variants remain a global health threat, due to their capacity for rapid evolution. Variants throughout the COVID-19 pandemic exhibited variations in virulence, impacting vaccine protection and disease severity. Investigating nonstructural protein variants is critical to understanding viral evolution and manipulation of host protein interactions. We focus on nonstructural protein 3 (nsp3), with multiple domains with different activities, including viral polyprotein cleavage, host deubiquitylation, de-ISGylation, and double-membrane vesicle formation. Using affinity purification-mass spectrometry (AP-MS), we identify differential protein interactions in nsp3 caused by mutations found in variants identified between 2019 and 2024: Alpha 20I, Beta 20H, Delta 21I, Delta 21J, Gamma 20J, Kappa 21B, Lambda 21G, Omicron 21K, and Omicron 21L. A small set of amino acid substitutions in the N-terminal region of nsp3 (nsp3.1) could be traced to increased interactions with RNA-binding proteins, which are vital in viral replication. Meanwhile, variants of the central region of nsp3 (nsp3.2) were found to share interactions with protein quality control machinery, including ER-associated degradation. In this construct, shared trends in interactor enrichment are observed between Omicron 21K and Delta 21I. These results underscore how minor mutations reshape host interactions, emphasizing the evolutionary arms race between the host and virus. We provide a roadmap to track the interaction changes driven by SARS-CoV-2 variant evolution.
PXD059345	40148320	Molecular basis for the regulation of human phosphorylase kinase by phosphorylation and Ca(2). 	Confirmation of the phosphorylation sites of human PhK	Phosphorylation sites,PhK	Phosphorylase kinase (PhK) regulates the degradation of glycogen by integrating diverse signals, providing energy to the organism. Dysfunctional mutations may directly lead to Glycogen Storage Disease type IX (GSD IX), whereas the abnormal expression of PhK is also associated with tumors. Here, we use cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM) to resolve its near-atomic structures in the inactive and active states. These structures reveal the interactions and relative locations of the four subunits (alphabetagammadelta) within the PhK complex. Phosphorylated alpha and beta subunits induce PhK to present a more compact state, while Ca(2+) causes sliding of the delta subunit along the helix of the gamma subunit. Both actions synergistically activate PhK by enabling the de-inhibition of the gamma subunit. We also identified different binding modes between PhK and its substrate, glycogen phosphorylase (GP), in two distinct states, using cross-linking mass spectrometry (XL-MS). This study provides valuable insights into the regulatory mechanisms of PhK, thereby enhancing our understanding of GSD IX and its implications in tumorigenesis.
PXD057702	40148355	Medium from human iPSC-derived primitive macrophages promotes adult cardiomyocyte proliferation and cardiac regeneration. 	Medium from human iPSC-derived primitive macrophages promote adult cardiomyocyte proliferation and cardiac regeneration	conditioned medium, macrophage	Heart injury has been characterized by the irreversible loss of cardiomyocytes comprising the contractile tissues of the heart and thus strategies enabling adult cardiomyocyte proliferation are highly desired for treating various heart diseases. Here, we test the ability of human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived primitive macrophages (hiPMs) and their conditioned medium (hiPM-cm) to promote human cardiomyocyte proliferation and enhance cardiac regeneration in adult mice. We find that hiPMs promote human cardiomyocyte proliferation, which is recapitulated by hiPM-cm through the activation of multiple pro-proliferative pathways, and a secreted proteome analysis identifies five proteins participating in this activation. Subsequent in vivo experiments show that hiPM-cm promotes adult cardiomyocyte proliferation in mice. Lastly, hiPM-cm enhances cardiac regeneration and improves contractile function in injured adult mouse hearts. Together, our study demonstrates the efficacy of using hiPM-cm in promoting adult cardiomyocyte proliferation and cardiac regeneration to serve as an innovative treatment for heart disease.
PXD054750	40148504	Praja2 controls P-body assembly and translation in glioblastoma by non-proteolytic ubiquitylation of DDX6. 	Identification of DDX6 ubiquitylated lysines in cAMP-stimulated cells. stimulation	DDX6, DIA, P-bodies, cAMP, polyubiquitin	Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most lethal form of malignant brain tumor in adults. Dysregulation of protein synthesis contributes to cancer cell plasticity, driving GBM cell heterogeneity, metastatic behavior, and drug resistance. Understanding the complex network and signaling pathways governing protein translation, is therefore an important goal for GBM treatment. Here we identify a novel signaling network centered on the E3 ubiquitin ligase praja2 that controls protein translation in GBM. Praja2 forms a multimeric complex with the RNA helicase DDX6, which inhibits translation of target RNAs within processing bodies (P-bodies). Stimulation of cAMP signaling through activation of G-protein-coupled receptors induces P-body assembly through praja2-mediated non-proteolytic polyubiquitylation of DDX6. Genetic inactivation of praja2 reshapes DDX6/mRNA complexes and translating polysomes and promotes cellular senescence and GBM growth arrest. Expression of an ubiquitylation-defective DDX6 mutant suppresses the assembly of P-bodies and sustains GBM growth. Taken together, our findings identify a cAMP-driven network that controls translation in P-bodies and GBM growth.
PXD040910	40150405	CTNNB1 and CDH1 Regulate Trophoblast Cell Adhesion and Junction Formation in Yak Placental Tissue at Different Gestational Stages. 	Proteomics of the placenta of yak in the early, middle and later stages of pregnancy studies the reproductive physiological mechanism of yak pregnancy, and provides relevant theoretical data for the growth and development of the placenta	Functional analysis, Yak, placenta, pregnancy	Yaks (Bos grunniens), which are distributed across the Tibetan Plateau and other high-altitude regions, are vital livestock that provide essential resources for local herders and have significant economic and ecological value [...].
PXD058944	40150895	Study on the changes of extracellular matrix morphology and components in COPD animal model by using lung decellularized scaffold. 	Study on the changes of extracellular matrix morphology and components in COPD animal model by using lung decellularized scaffold	Airway Remodeling, COPD(Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease), ECM(extracellular matrix), Lung Decellularized Scaffolds	Airway remodeling is a critical pathological process that influences the progression of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease(COPD). To better study small airway remodeling in COPD, we employed advanced techniques such as decellularized scaffolds, immunofluorescence, scanning electron microscopy, and proteomics to analyze morphological and compositional changes in the extracellular matrix (ECM). Our study revealed significant ultrastructural abnormalities in the decellularized scaffolds from the COPD group, including thinning of alveolar septa, enlargement of alveolar spaces, and fusion of multiple alveoli. Additionally, the ECM composition in the COPD group exhibited notable changes characterized by an increase in collagen fibers, type I and IV collagens, fibronectin, and laminin (p < .05), along with a decrease in elastin and glycosaminoglycans (p < .05). Proteomic analysis identified 70 differentially expressed proteins between the COPD group and the control group. These included 34 upregulated proteins such as Smarca2, Skt, Acvrl1, Myl2 (all with ratios >10.64), and 36 downregulated proteins such as Col6a6, Col6a5, and AnK3 (all with ratios <0.27). Pathway analysis indicated that activation of apoptosis (Enrichment Score, ES = 0.23) and epithelial-mesenchymal transition (ES = 0.38) genes and inhibition of collagen synthesis (ES = -0.43) and degradation (ES = -0.63) genes were observed in the COPD group. These findings enhance our understanding of the mechanisms underlying airway remodeling and provide a scientific basis for developing novel therapeutic strategies for COPD.
PXD057487	40151951	Bruceine A Inhibits Cell Proliferation by Targeting the USP13/PARP1 Signalling Pathway in Multiple Myeloma. 	Human blood LC-MSMS Simple Protein Identification Report	Human blood cell LC-MSMS	Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable hematologic malignancy, driving significant interest in the discovery of novel therapeutic strategies. Bruceine A (BA), a tetracyclic triterpene quassinoid derived from Brucea javanica, has shown anticancer properties by modulating multiple intracellular signalling pathways and exhibiting various biological effects. However, the specific pharmacological mechanisms by which it combats MM remain unclear. In this study, we identified USP13 as a potential target of BA. We observed a significant increase in USP13 expression in patients with MM, which was strongly associated with a poorer prognosis. Furthermore, enhanced USP13 expression can stimulate MM cell proliferation both in vitro and in vivo. Mass spectrometry analysis, combined with co-immunoprecipitation and in vitro ubiquitination experiments, revealed PARP1 as a critical downstream target of USP13. USP13 can stabilize PARP1 protein through deubiquitination, promoting PARP1-mediated DNA damage repair (DDR) and facilitating MM progression. Notably, we utilized MM cell lines, an MM Patient-Derived Tumour Xenograft model, and a 5TMM3VT mouse model to determine the anticancer effects of BA on MM progression, revealing its potential to target USP13/PARP1 signalling and disrupt DDR in MM cells. In conclusion, these findings suggest that BA inhibiting USP13/PARP1-mediated DDR might be a promising therapeutic strategy for MM.
PXD056444	40152517	Mutations in HEADING DATE 1 affect transcription and cell wall composition in rice. 	Impact of mutations in the HEADING DATE 1 gene on transcription and cell wall composition of rice_P2777	hd1-1 versus wild type leaf proteome	Plants utilize environmental information to modify their developmental trajectories for optimal survival and reproduction. Over a century ago, day length (photoperiod) was identified as a major factor influencing developmental transitions, particularly the shift from vegetative to reproductive growth. In rice (Oryza sativa), exposure to day lengths shorter than a critical threshold accelerates flowering, while longer days inhibit this process. This response is mediated by HEADING DATE 1 (Hd1), a zinc finger transcription factor that is central in the photoperiodic flowering network. Hd1 acts as a repressor of flowering under long days but functions as a promoter of flowering under short days. However, how global transcription of genes downstream of Hd1 changes in response to the photoperiod is still not fully understood. Furthermore, it is unclear whether Hd1 target genes are solely involved in flowering time control or mediate additional functions. In this study, we utilized RNA-Seq to analyze the transcriptome of hd1 mutants under both long and short day conditions. We identified genes involved in the phenylpropanoid pathway that are deregulated under long days in the mutant. Quantitative profiling of cell wall components and abiotic stress assays suggested that Hd1 is involved in processes considered unrelated to flowering control. This indicates that day length perception and responses are intertwined with physiological processes beyond flowering.
PXD053801	40153462	Mechanistic insights into dengue virus inhibition by a clinical trial compound NITD-688. 	Mechanistic Insights into Dengue Virus Inhibition by a Clinical Trial Compound NITD-688	DENV, JNJ-1802, NITD-688, NS3, NS4B, antiviral, flavivirus, viral replication	Dengue, caused by the dengue virus (DENV), presents a significant public health challenge with limited effective treatments. NITD-688 is a potent panserotype DENV inhibitor currently in Phase II clinical trials. However, its mechanism of action is not fully understood. Here, we present the molecular details of how NITD-688 inhibits DENV. NITD-688 binds directly to the nonstructural protein 4B (NS4B) with nanomolar affinities across all four DENV serotypes and specifically disrupts the interaction between NS4B and nonstructural protein 3 (NS3) without significantly changing the interactions between NS4B and other viral or host proteins. NS4B mutations that confer resistance to NITD-688 reduce both NITD-688 binding to NS4B and disruption of the NS4B/NS3 interaction. Specifically, NITD-688 blocks the interaction of NS3 with a cytosolic loop within NS4B. This inhibits the formation of new NS4B/NS3 complexes and disrupts preexisting complexes in vitro and DENV-infected cells, ultimately inhibiting viral replication. Consistent with this mechanism, NITD-688 retains greater potency in cellular assays with delayed treatment compared to JNJ-1802, another NS4B inhibitor that has been studied in Phase II clinical trials. Together, these findings provide critical insights into the mechanism of action of NITD-688, facilitating the development of novel flavivirus NS4B inhibitors and informing future clinical interventions against DENV.
PXD056652	40154610	Determining T-cell Receptor Binding Orientation and Peptide-HLA Interactions Using Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry. 	Determining TCR Binding Orientation and Peptide-HLA Interac-tions Using Cross-Linking Mass Spectrometry	Cross-linking	T cell receptors (TCRs) recognize specific peptides presented by human leukocyte antigens (HLAs) on the surface of antigen presenting cells and are involved in fighting pathogens and cancer surveillance. Canonical docking orientation of TCRs to their target peptide-HLAs (pHLAs) is essential for T cell activation, with reverse binding TCRs lacking functionality. TCR binding geometry and molecular interaction footprint with pHLAs is typically obtained by determining the crystal structure. Here, we describe the use of a cross-linking tandem mass spectrometry (XL-MS/MS) method to decipher the binding orientation of several TCRs to their target pHLAs. Cross-linking sites were localized to specific residues and their molecular interactions showed differentiation between TCRs binding in canonical or reverse orientations. Structural prediction and crystal structure determination of two TCR-pHLA complexes validated these findings. The XL-MS/MS method described herein offers a faster and simpler approach for elucidating TCR-pHLA binding orientation and interactions.
PXD056077	40154885	Metal ion-enhanced ZIC-cHILIC StageTip for N-Glycoproteomic and Phosphoproteomic Profiling in EGFR-mutated Lung Cancer Cells. 	Metal ion-decorated ZIC-cHILIC StageTip Enables Simultaneous Profiling of N-Glycoproteome and Phosphoproteome in TKI resistant NSCLC cells	N-glycoproteome, ZIC-cHILIC, phosphoproteome	Surface glycosylation and intracellular phosphorylation regulates the cell-cell communication and signaling cascades. Due to complex glycosylation and dynamic phosphorylation, exploring their interplay remains technically challenging. In this study, we reported a tandem ZIC-cHILIC StageTip strategy for streamlined and simultaneous (sialo)glycoproteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling. We first demonstrated that Fe ions expand the utility of ZIC-cHILIC strategy to phosphoproteomic analysis with greatly enhanced >4-fold coverage and high specificity for mono-phosphopeptides (95%). The Fe-ZIC-cHILIC tandem tips, leveraging stepwise fractionation, enable large-scale coverage of 10,536 glycopeptides, including highly confident 4,285 sialoglycopeptpides, and 11,329 phosphopeptides in a single cell type. To study the mechanism underlying the tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) resistance in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), application of the strategy to 4 NSCLC cells harboring different EGFR mutations reveals significantly differential 1,559 glycopeptides and 1,949 phosphopeptides either in EGFR mutation or TKI resistant cells. Without protein immunoprecipitation, the approach identified FDA-approved drug targets, such as EGFR, ERBB2, MET, and integrin family members. Most prominent alterations were observed in EGFR (auto-phosphorylation Y1197 and 10 bi- and triantennary fucosyl-sialo glycans at N603), downstream PI3K-Akt pathway (ERBB2-T1240, MET-S990/T992, AKT-S124/S126) and integrin family (sialo-fucosyl glycans), suggesting site-specific alteration between N-glycosylation and phosphorylation interplay in the TKI resistant L858R-T790M mutant NSCLC cells. The glycoproteomic and phosphoproteomic landscape may help to unravel the complex modification alterations underlying the resistant mechanism, offering insights for improving therapeutic strategies and patient outcomes.
PXD056670	40154915	Defining the Features of Complement-Active IgM. 	Defining the Structural Features of Complement-Active IgM: Surface Ag linker comparison	Antibody-antigen interaction, HDX-MS, IgM	Immunoglobulin M (IgM) is a class of mammalian antibody that is critical for the early stages of adaptive immunity, and is the most potent Ig-activator of the classical complement cascade. While the relationship between IgM and complement has been appreciated for decades, the structural transitions within IgM upon antigen binding that promote the activation of complement component C1 remain unresolved. Here we examine in vitro complement activation, C1 binding kinetics, and conformational changes within IgM in different antigen-bound states. Binding studies using biolayer interferometry revealed that only in a multivalent complex with a surface-displayed antigen was IgM fully capable of initiating complement activation. Hydrogen/Deuterium exchange with mass spectrometry revealed the predominant structural changes within the Fc core domains during transition to the active conformation. Collectively, this work establishes key structural and functional qualities that define the complement-active form of IgM.
PXD056568	40155594	Muscle-specific Ryanodine receptor 1 properties underlie limb-girdle muscular dystrophy 2B/R2 progression. 	Proteomics study in male C57BL6 tibialis anterior and psoas skeletal muscles.	Dysferlinopathy., Skeletal muscle, psoas, tibialis anterior	Ryanodine receptor 1 Ca(2+) leak is a signal in skeletal muscle, but chronic leak can underlie pathology. Here we show that in healthy male mouse, limb-girdle muscle presents higher sympathetic input, elevated ryanodine receptor 1 basal phosphorylation, Ca(2+) leak and mitochondrial Ca(2+) content compared to distal leg muscles. These regional differences are consistent with heat generation in resting muscle to maintain core temperature. The dysferlin-null mouse develops severe pathology in the limb-girdle but not leg muscles. Absence of dysferlin disrupts dihydropyridine receptors' inhibitory control over ryanodine receptor 1 leak, synergistically increasing leak through the already phosphorylated channel of limb-girdle muscle. This alters Ca(2+) handling and distribution leading to reactive oxygen species production prior to disease onset. With age, oxidation of Ca(2+) -handling proteins in dysferlin-null limb-girdle muscle alters basal Ca(2+) movements. Our results show that muscle-specific pathology in dysferlin-null mice is linked to increased ryanodine receptor 1 Ca(2+) leak.
PXD056245	40156059	Efficacy of IDOR-1117-2520, a novel, orally available CCR6 antagonist in preclinical models of skin dermatitis. 	Proteomics of preclinical model of skin dermatitis	Orbitrap QE-HF-X, skin	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The chemokine receptor CCR6 guides pathogenic T17 cells, implicated in autoimmune diseases including psoriasis, to sites of inflammation via the chemokine CCL20. Therefor, pharmacological inhibition of CCR6(+) immune cell migration provides a novel therapeutic approach. Translatability of such an intervention has not yet been assessed in detail. We evaluated the translatability of the Aldara(R) mouse model induced skin inflammation to psoriasis, with particular focus on immune cell trafficking and assessed the efficacy of IDOR-1117-2520, a highly selective, potent and orally available CCR6 small inhibitor. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Effects of IDOR-1117-2520 were investigated in the Aldara(R) and IL23 mouse models of skin inflammation using flow cytometry, RNA sequencing and transcriptome-based cell type deconvolution approaches to characterise immune cell migration patterns. These results were compared to human psoriasis transcriptomics data. KEY RESULTS: IDOR-1117-2520 dose dependently reduced infiltration of CCR6(+) immune cells into inflamed skin, and was equally efficacious as IL-17 and IL-23 inhibition in models of skin inflammation. Pathway analysis showed molecular similarities in the immune response between human psoriasis and the Aldara(R) mouse model. IL-17/IL-23 pathway genes were expressed in both human psoriasis and the mouse model. CCR6 inhibition modulated multiple pathways associated with inflammation beyond the proximal IL-17/IL-23 pathway. A chemokine-chemokine receptor interaction map implicated CCL20-CCR6 as the dominant axis in recruiting pathogenic T17 cells in both the model and in human psoriasis. CONCLUSION AND IMPLICATIONS: IDOR-1117-2520 could provide a promising novel targeted approach to treating psoriasis and, potentially, other autoimmune diseases involving the CCR6/CCL20 axis and the IL-17/IL-23 pathway. IDOR-1117-2520 is currently being evaluated in a clinical phase 1 trial (ISRCTN28892128).
PXD053010	40156862	Integrative structural analysis of NF45-NF90 heterodimers reveals architectural rearrangements and oligomerization on binding dsRNA. 	Integrative structural analysis of NF90-NF45 heterodimers reveals architectural rearrangements and oligomerisation on binding dsRNA	Human NF45-NF90 complexes, crosslinking mass spectrometry, dsRNAs	Complexes of nuclear factors 45 and 90 (NF45-NF90) play a multitude of roles in co- and post-transcriptional RNA processing, including regulating adenosine-to-inosine editing, cassette exon and back splicing, and splicing fidelity. NF45-NF90 complexes recognize double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) and, in human cells, primarily interact with Alu inverted repeats (AluIRs) that are commonly inserted into introns and other non-coding RNA regions. Intronic AluIRs of ~300 bp can regulate splicing outcomes, such as generation of circular RNAs. We examined domain reorganization of NF45-NF90 domains on dsRNAs exceeding 50 bp to gain insight into its RNA recognition properties on longer dsRNAs. Using a combination of phylogenetic analysis, solution methods (including small angle X-ray scattering and quantitative cross-linking mass spectrometry), machine learning, and negative stain electron microscopy, we generated a model of NF45-NF90 complex formation on dsRNA. Our data reveal that different interactions of NF45-NF90 complexes allow these proteins to coat long stretches of dsRNA. This property of the NF45-NF90 complex has important implications for how long, nuclear dsRNAs are recognized in the nucleus and how this might promote (co)-regulation of specific RNA splicing and editing events that shape the mammalian transcriptome.
PXD056864	40156913	Multi-omic analysis of meningeal cerebral amyloid angiopathy reveals enrichment of unsubstituted glucosamine and extracellular proteins. 	Multi-omic analysis of meningeal cerebral amyloid angiopathy reveals enrichment of specific proteins and heparan sulfate disaccharides	ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), human amyloid meningeal proteomics	Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a common feature of Alzheimer's disease in which amyloid-beta (Abeta) deposits in cerebral and leptomeningeal vessel walls, predisposing vessels to micro- and macro-hemorrhages. The vessel walls contain distinct proteins and heparan sulfate (HS), yet how vascular proteins and HS jointly associate with Abeta is unknown. We conducted the first multi-omics study to systematically characterize the proteins as well as the HS abundance, sulfation level, and disaccharide composition of leptomeninges from 23 moderate to severe CAA cases and controls. We then analyzed the associations between Abeta and other proteins, HS, and apolipoprotein E genotype. We found an increase in a minor HS disaccharide containing unsubstituted glucosamine, as well as 6-O sulfated disaccharides; Abeta40 levels positively correlated with unsubstituted glucosamine. There was also an increase in extracellular proteins derived from brain parenchyma or plasma, including olfactomedin-like protein 3, fibrinogen, serum amyloid protein, apolipoprotein E, and secreted frizzled related protein-3. Our findings of vascular HS and protein alterations specific to CAA-affected leptomeningeal vessels provide molecular insight into the extracellular remodeling that co-occurs with Abeta deposits and may indicate a basis for antemortem diagnostic assay development and therapeutic strategies to impede Abeta-HS interactions.
PXD058981	40157355	Seeded aggregation of TDP-43 induces its loss of function and reveals early pathological signatures. 	Seeded aggregation of TDP-43 induces its loss of function	ALS, DIA, FTD, TDP-43, low input, timsTOF	Neurodegeneration in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD) results from both gain of toxicity and loss of normal function of the RNA-binding protein TDP-43, but their mechanistic connection remains unclear. Increasing evidence suggests that TDP-43 aggregates act as self-templating seeds, propagating pathology through the central nervous system via a prion-like cascade. We developed a robust TDP-43-seeding platform for quantitative assessment of TDP-43 aggregate uptake, cell-to-cell spreading, and loss of function within living cells, while they progress toward pathology. We show that both patient-derived and recombinant TDP-43 pathological aggregates were abundantly internalized by human neuron-like cells, efficiently recruited endogenous TDP-43, and formed cytoplasmic inclusions reminiscent of ALS/FTD pathology. Combining a fluorescent reporter of TDP-43 function with RNA sequencing and proteomics, we demonstrated aberrant cryptic splicing and a loss-of-function profile resulting from TDP-43-templated aggregation. Our data highlight known and novel pathological signatures in the context of seed-induced TDP-43 loss of function.
PXD057778	40157536	Discovery of potent and selective PROTACs for the protein kinase LZK for the treatment of head and neck cancer. 	Identification of protein substrates of a novel proteolysis targeting chimera, PROTAC124 in tongue squamous cell carcinoma cell line CAL-33 overexpressing Leucine Zipper-bearing Kinase (LZK).	HNSCC, Leucine Zipper-bearing Kinase (LZK, MAP3K13), PROTAC (Proteolysis targeting chimera), head and neck cancer, targeted protein degradation	Leucine zipper-bearing kinase (LZK) is overexpressed in 20% of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) cases and has emerged as a promising therapeutic target in this cancer subtype. LZK promotes HNSCC survival and proliferation by stabilizing c-MYC and GOF-p53 in kinase-dependent and -independent manners, respectively. Herein, we developed a new series of LZK degraders utilizing proteolysis-targeting chimera (PROTAC) technology by modulating the linker region or LZK warhead of LZK-targeting PROTAC-21A, previously developed by our lab. Among the 27 PROTACs synthesized and tested, PROTAC 17 was found to be the most potent, degrading LZK at 250 nM and suppressing HNSCC viability at 500 nM. In summary our lead PROTAC effectively targeted LZK for proteasomal degradation and inhibited oncogenic activity in HNSCC cell lines with amplified LZK.
PXD053568	40157722	An improved method for sampling and quantitative protein analytics of cerebrospinal fluid of individual mice. 	Quantitative proteomics of CSF from the Alzheimer's disease mouse model 5xFAD	5xFAD, Alzheimers disease, CSF, DDA, DIA, cerebrospinal fluid	The mouse is the species most commonly used in preclinical research, but protein analytics of murine cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) remains challenging because of low sample volumes (often <10 mul) and frequent contaminations with blood. We developed an improved CSF sampling method that allows routine collection of larger volumes (20-30 mul) of pure CSF from individual mice, enabling multiple protein analytical assays from a single sample. Based on cell counts and hemoglobin ELISAs, we provide an easy quality control workflow for obtaining cell- and blood-free murine CSF. Through mass spectrometry-based proteomics using an absolutely quantified external standard, we estimated concentrations for hundreds of mouse CSF proteins. While repeated CSF sampling from the same mouse was possible, it induced CSF proteome changes. Applying the improved method, we found that the mouse CSF proteome remains largely stable over time in wild-type mice, but that amyloid pathology in the 5xFAD mouse model of Alzheimer's disease massively changes the CSF proteome. Neurofilament light chain and TREM2, markers of neurodegeneration and activated microglia, respectively, were strongly upregulated and validated using immunoassays. In conclusion, our refined murine CSF collection method overcomes previous limitations, allowing multiple quantitative protein analyses for applications in biomedicine.
PXD056344	40157902	beta-Carotene alleviates substrate inhibition caused by asymmetric cooperativity. 	beta-Carotene alleviates substrate inhibition caused by asymmetric cooperativity	HDXMS, Nicotiana benthamiana, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), Substrate inhibition, UGT, X-ray crystallography	Enzymes are essential catalysts in biological systems. Substrate inhibition, once dismissed, is now observed in 20% of enzymes(1) and is attributed to the formation of an unproductive enzyme-substrate complex, with no structural evidence of unproductivity provided to date(1-6). This study uncovers the molecular mechanism of substrate inhibition in tobacco glucosyltransferase NbUGT72AY1, which transfers glucose to phenols for plant protection. The peculiarity that beta-carotene strongly attenuates the substrate inhibition of NbUGT72AY1, despite being a competitive inhibitor, allows to determine the conformational changes that occur during substrate binding in both active and substrate-inhibited complexes. Crystallography reveals structurally different ternary enzyme-substrate complexes that do not conform to classical mechanisms. An alternative pathway suggests substrates bind randomly, but the reaction occurs only if a specific order is followed (asymmetric cooperativity). This unreported paradigm explains substrate inhibition and reactivation by competitive inhibitors, opening new research avenues in metabolic regulation and industrial applications.
PXD061295	40158855	PEX1(G843D) remains functional in peroxisome biogenesis but is rapidly degraded by the proteasome. 	Affinity proteomics on PEX1 and PEX1-G843D in HCT116 Cells	FLAG-affinity, HCT116, PEX1	The PEX1/PEX6 AAA-ATPase is required for the biogenesis and maintenance of peroxisomes. Mutations in HsPEX1 and HsPEX6 disrupt peroxisomal matrix protein import and are the leading cause of Peroxisome Biogenesis Disorders (PBDs). The most common disease-causing mutation in PEX1 is the HsPEX1(G843D) allele, which results in a reduction of peroxisomal protein import. Here we demonstrate that in vitro the homologous yeast mutant, ScPex1(G700D), reduces the stability of Pex1's active D2 ATPase domain and impairs assembly with Pex6, but can still form an active AAA-ATPase motor. In vivo, ScPex1(G700D) exhibits only a slight defect in peroxisome import. We generated model human HsPEX1(G843D) cell lines and show that PEX1(G843D) is rapidly degraded by the proteasome, but that induced overexpression of PEX1(G843D) can restore peroxisome import. Additionally, we found that the G843D mutation reduces PEX1's affinity for PEX6, and that impaired assembly is sufficient to induce degradation of PEX1(WT). Lastly, we found that fusing a deubiquitinase to PEX1(G843D) significantly hinders its degradation in mammalian cells. Altogether, our findings suggest a novel regulatory mechanism for PEX1/PEX6 hexamer assembly and highlight the potential of protein stabilization as a therapeutic strategy for PBDs arising from the G843D mutation and other PEX1 hypomorphs.
PXD058056	40159502	Cryo-TEM structure of beta-glucocerebrosidase in complex with its transporter LIMP-2. 	Interaction of saposin C and acid-beta-glucosidase	Gaucher, crosslinking, glucosidase, lysosome, saposin	Targeting proteins to their final cellular destination requires transport mechanisms and nearly all lysosomal enzymes reach the lysosome via the mannose-6-phosphate receptor pathway. One of the few known exceptions is the enzyme beta-glucocerebrosidase (GCase) that requires the lysosomal integral membrane protein type-2 (LIMP-2) as a proprietary lysosomal transporter. Genetic variations in the GCase encoding gene GBA1 cause Gaucher's disease (GD) and present the highest genetic risk factor to develop Parkinson's disease (PD). Activators targeting GCase emerge as a promising therapeutic approach to treat GD and PD, with pre-clinical and clinical trials ongoing. In this study, we resolve the complex of GCase and LIMP-2 using cryo-electron microscopy with the aid of an engineered LIMP-2 shuttle and two GCase-targeted pro-macrobodies. We identify helix 5 and helix 7 of LIMP-2 to interact with a binding pocket in GCase, forming a mostly hydrophobic interaction interface supported by one essential salt bridge. Understanding the interplay of GCase and LIMP-2 on a structural level is crucial to identify potential activation sites and conceptualizing novel therapeutic approaches targeting GCase. Here, we unveil the protein structure of a mannose-6-phosphate-independent lysosomal transport complex and provide fundamental knowledge for translational clinical research to overcome GD and PD.
PXD055594	40160755	Comparison of the Human Plasma Peptides from the Fit of Fragmentation Spectra versus Accurate Monoisotopic Precursor Mass. 	Analysis of Human Plasma by LC-MSMS and Orbital Ion Trap	Human plasma, Orbital Ion Trap, Partition Chromatography, Quaternary Amine, Random and independent sampling	In nature, ionized peptides with heavy isotopes and hydrogen rearrangements show a broad mass distribution with signals at discrete delta mass values from -3 to +5 Da by mass spectrometry (MS). For many peptides, the intensity of the +1 or +2 Da isotope exceeds the signal from the monoisotopic mass. Therefore, there is a need for a method that improves peptide identification from heavy isotopes or hydrogen rearrangements based on the fit of tandem mass spectra. Peptides may be identified using an accurate monoisotopic precursor mass with <=0.1 Da. However, many peptides with heavy isotopes and H-loss can be identified and enumerated based on the fit of their MS/MS spectra alone in the absence of an accurate precursor monoisotopic mass (i.e., +/- 3 Da) using the X!TANDEM MS/MS fitting algorithm. In this study, human plasma samples were analyzed with a highly resolving axially harmonic orbital ion trap (OIT) and a sensitive linear quadrupole ion trap (LIT). The MS/MS fragmentation spectra from the OIT can be fit to peptides from the monoisotopic (+/-0.1 Da) as well as all other precursor masses with a wide mass tolerance (+/-3 Da). The resulting delta mass distribution can then be plotted and compared to the predicted distribution of heavy isotopes and hydrogen rearrangements to provide a direct biophysical prediction and test the validity of the fit determined by accepting the best-fit MS/MS spectra. The OIT instrument, which has greater resolution, was sampled at 30 nL per minute, while the more sensitive LIT was sampled at 200 nL per minute. The MS/MS spectra generated by each instrument were fit to peptides within a wide window (+/-3 Da) using the rigorous X!TANDEM algorithm. The OIT and LIT results were compared in an SQL Server database and corrected against analytical and statistical controls. The delta mass distribution of the peptides with hydrogen rearrangements and heavy isotopes was determined from the fit MS/MS spectra using the R statistical program. The OIT sampled MS and MS/MS spectra from the high-intensity precursor ions by focusing on E7 to E9 detector counts. In contrast, the LIT sampled a range of precursor ion intensities focused from E4 to E7 and thus reached lower ion intensity values. As expected, the precursor mass [M + H](+) obtained by the OIT exhibited sharp delta mass peaks at -3, -2, -1, 0, +1, +2, +3, +4, and +5 Da due to naturally occurring heavy isotopes and hydrogen rearrangements. The collection of peptides and proteins identified by OIT and LIT was in qualitative and quantitative agreement with one another, with 99.9% overlap on 2726 protein gene symbols from human plasma and a highly significant relationship by regression analysis. The protein p-values, false discovery rate q-values, and comparisons to the noise MS/MS analytical control and random MS/MS statistical control confirmed the high-confidence MS/MS identifications from both instruments. MS/MS fragmentation spectra from the OIT were fit to peptides. The resulting precursor ion delta mass distribution showed a precise match to the predicted isotope distributions and hydrogen rearrangements of natural peptides. Thus, analysis of delta mass plots provided powerful biophysical evidence for the accuracy of plasma peptide identification from the fit of the MS/MS spectra alone. The high level of agreement on proteins and peptides and the proportional enumeration between proteins identified by the OIT and those identified independently using a LIT confirmed that plasma peptides and proteins may be identified and quantified from MS/MS spectra alone without the need for an accurate measure of the precursor mass. The greater sensitivity and low cost of searching MS/MS spectra in the absence of an accurate mass mean that it is possible to identify and quantify more proteins for the discovery of proteins in clinical populations.
PXD050496	40160901	Serum Proteomics of Experimental Malaria-Associated ARDS Reveals a Regulation of Acute-Phase Response Proteins. 	SERUM PROTEOMICS OF Experimental MALARIA-associated ARDS REVEALS A REGULATION OF ACUTE PHASE RESPONSE PROTEINS	Acute resipratory distress syndrome, Biomarkers, Malaria	Malaria is a parasitic infectious disease considered a public health problem. Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a complication in malaria-infected individuals with a high mortality rate (80% to 100%) and can occur before, during, or after antimalarial drug treatment. Although inflammation and epithelial/endothelial injury pathways have been determined through these studies, specific circulating malaria-associated ARDS markers have not yet been established. We applied a quantitative mass spectrometry (MS)-based proteomic approach to identify altered molecular pathways in a mouse model of malaria-associated ARDS. Acute-phase response (APR) proteins were regulated in the ARDS group, suggesting their potential involvement in the development of the syndrome. They may serve as biomarkers when analyzed alongside other proteins that require further investigation. Additionally, the regulation of APR proteins in the ARDS group provides valuable insights into the pathophysiology of ARDS, contributing to a better understanding of the syndrome.
PXD057347	40163023	Mind Your Spectra: Points to be Aware of When Validating the Identification of Isobaric Histone Peptidoforms. 	Mind Your Spectra: Points to be Aware of when Validating the Identification of Isobaric Histone Peptidoforms	acylations, histone H3 variants, isobaric peptides, overpropionylation	Mass spectrometry has become central to identifying and quantifying histone post-translational modifications (PTMs), surpassing limitations of antibody-based methods. Histones are dynamically modified by multiple structures, especially at lysine residues on their N-terminal tails, to regulate DNA-templated processes. Reliable identification of histone PTMs remains challenging and still requires manual curation. This study focused on the Lys27-Arg40 stretch of histone H3, considered four sequence variants, an increasing number of lysine PTMs and artifacts coming from histone sample processing, which resulted in many isobaric peptides. Our analysis revealed the value of low-mass b1 and cyclic immonium fragment ions to validate identification of the distinct peptidoforms. We examined how MS/MS spectra are transformed by common identification software during the conversion of raw files into peak lists, and highlighted how some parameters may erase the informative low-mass fragments. We targeted the detection of 40 H3 K27-R40 variant x PTM combinations, including the mouse-specific variants H3mm7 and H3mm13, in histone samples extracted from mouse testis and brain via a parallel reaction monitoring analysis. We only detected very low levels of unmodified H3mm7. Our work contributes to reliably deciphering the histone code shaped by distinct sequence variants and numerous combinations of PTMs.
PXD043456	40163213	Investigation of new autoantibodies in urothelial bladder cancer for biomarker discovery using immunoproteomics. 	Data in support of Comparative Proteomics Analysis in Different Stages of Urothelial Bladder Cancer for Identification of Potential Biomarkers	Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer, muscle-invasive bladder cancer	BACKGROUND: Tumor-associated antigens (TAAs) lead to the production of tumor-specific autoantibodies (anti-TAA autoantibodies) by triggering the humoral immune system which can be used as candidate biomarkers. This study aims to investigate TAAs proteins eliciting humoral responses in different stages of urothelial bladder carcinoma (UBC) using an immunoproteomics approach to find novel biomarkers for the clinical management of the disease. METHODS: Total proteins were obtained from the newly established UBC cell line, JAM-ICR, and separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE). These proteins were then immobilized using pooled serum samples from healthy individuals, autoimmune and UBC patients at different stages. The immunoreactive spots in UBC patient samples were identified by mass spectrometry and verified with several databases such as GEPIA and Enrichr databases. RESULTS: Through the comparison of the immunoreactivity pattern of serums, we were able to identify eight specific proteins using LC-MS. Patients with muscle invasion showed increased expression of ENO1, VDAC2, AKR1B1, SDF2L1, PRDX6, PSME1, HSPB1 and PHB1 compared to controls. In addition, non-muscle invasive patients showed overexpression of ENO1, VDAC2, AKR1B1, and PRDX6 compared to controls. In addition to their diagnostic function, PRDX6, ENO1, VDAC2, and PHB1 have been demonstrated to possess prognostic capabilities in patients with UBC. Interestingly, these proteins were mainly associated with cellular growth and anti-apoptotic activity. CONCLUSION: In this study, eight anti-TAA autoantibodies were identified that have the potential to serve as diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers. These could represent a valuable panel of biomarkers for the management of UBC.
PXD050746	40164647	Paired proteomic analysis reveals protein alterations in sun-exposed skin of professional drivers : (1)Laboratory for structural and Computational Proteomics, Carlos Chagas Institute, Fiocruz, Parana, Brazil. 	Paired Proteomic Analysis of Sun-Exposed Skin of Professional Drivers Reveals altered abundance of Keratins, S100A14, Hemoglobin, and F-box Proteins.	Paired, Photoaging, Skin, Sun-Exposed	Professional drivers represent an ideal cohort for investigating the effects of solar radiation on skin due to their unique, asymmetric exposure to sun, a consequence of vehicle window orientations. Consequently, one side of the face is naturally subjected to more solar radiation, resulting in uneven sunlight exposure. This scenario supports a paired experimental design for precise within-individual comparisons, crucial for assessing sun exposure's impact on skin health, including signs of aging. Leveraging this approach, our study reveals sun-induced overexpression of proteins linked to photoaging through paired proteomic analysis, providing novel insights into the skin's adaptive responses to chronic solar exposure. Initially, our research focused on a dataset from ten male professional drivers, identifying a set upregulated proteins in sun-exposed skin compared to the less exposed side of the face. To validate these findings, we extended our investigation to a new cohort of seven female bus drivers. Our motivation in switching genders and utilizing different mass spectrometry equipment and sample preparation techniques was for assessing the robustness of our initial findings, encompassing not just sex differences but also methodological variations, and also for understanding the broader implications of our results for photodermatology. To enable this detailed analysis, we developed specialized software that allows precise paired proteomic analysis, significantly enhancing the robustness and clarity of our findings. Our results shortlisted keratins, S100A14, and F-box proteins-by remaining consistently overexpressed in sun-exposed skin-and hemoglobin subunit beta as downregulated across both cohorts. Our findings underscore the potential of proteomic techniques in advancing our understanding of the molecular dynamics of photoaging and highlight the value of selecting cohorts with specific exposure characteristics.
PXD058720	40165053	Glycolysis and signal transduction participate in Lycium barbarum in response to NaCl stress through protein phosphorylation. 	Investigating the Quantitative Proteomics of TMT Phosphorylation in Ningxia Wolfberry under Diverse Concentrations of Salt Stress: Unveiling Molecular Mechanisms and Implications	L. barbarum, differentially phosphorylated protein, phosphoproteomic, salt stress	BACKGROUND: Lycium barbarum L. possesses great salt tolerance and medicinal values, studying its salt tolerance contribute to variety improvement, as well as the increase in yield and quality. RESULTS: The study integrated the tandem mass tags (TMT) phosphoproteomics and physiological indexes of L. barbarum exposed to different concentrations of NaCl, with the aim of characterizing salt adaptation characteristics of L. barbarum. The findings indicated that a total of 2189 differentially phosphorylated peptides were identified, functional analysis revealed their involvement in glycolysis, plant hormone signal transduction, mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signal transduction and other pathways, and that the enzyme activities and substances related to glycolysis and signal transduction underwent significant changes under salt stress. CONCLUSION: Salt stress enhanced the glycolysis pathway through protein phosphorylation, and the changes in related enzymes activity accelerated the conversion of intermediate metabolites and energy supply. Salt stress led to the accumulation of abscisic acid (ABA), jasmonic acid (JA), and salicylic acid (SA) levels, triggering signal transduction events regulated by phosphorylated proteins to improve salt tolerance for L. barbarum in saline environments. The phosphorylation of MAPK signaling pathway-related proteins is triggered by reactive oxygen species (ROS) and ABA as signal molecules to induce the expression of downstream salt stress response factors. This study provides a foundation for further analysis of the molecular regulatory mechanism of protein phosphorylation in L. barbarum for salt stress.
PXD060501	40165215	SUGAR-seq reveals the transcriptome and N-linked glycosylation landscape of mononuclear phagocytes at single-cell resolution in a mouse model of autosomal dominant osteopetrosis type 2. 	LC-MS/MS-based 4D Label-Free N-Glycosylation Proteomics Analysis of Bone Marrow Cells from ADO2 Mouse	Bone Marrow Cells, N-Glycosylation Proteomics, Osteopetrosis Type 2	BACKGROUND: Heterozygous mutation of CLCN7 (R286W) is commonly found in patients with benign autosomal dominant osteopetrosis. However, there is no evidence from animal models to confirm that it is a disease mutation. And the characteristics of the bone marrow cell (BMC) landscape in osteopetrosis at the single-cell level are completely unknown till now. RESULTS: In this study, we generated the first autosomal dominant osteopetrosis type 2 (ADO2) mouse model with typical phenotypes carried a mutation Clcn7 (r284w) corresponding to CLCN7 (R286W) observed in human patients using gene editing technology. And then, we conducted the first-ever single-cell analysis of the RNA expression and N-linked glycosylation profiles for the mouse BMCs by SUrface-protein Glycan And RNA-sequencing (SUGAR-seq). We identified 14 distinct cell types and similar proportion of neutrophils in both ADO2 and wild type mice, confirmed by flow cytometry analysis. The N-linked glycosylation modifications of BMCs were significantly downregulated detecting by SUGAR-seq, which was similar to the situation of N-Glycan profiling by the 4D Label-Free N-Glycosylation Proteomics Analysis. Particularly noteworthy is the heterogeneity of classic monocytes. We identified six cell subtypes, but only two cell subtypes were found with different proportion of cell, whose different expressed genes were associated with NF-kappaB-inducing kinase / Nuclear Factor-kappa B (NIK/NF-kappaB) signaling and other pathway associated with osteoclast differentiation. CONCLUSIONS: Our murine model confirms that the human CLCN7 (R286W) is a pathogenic mutation for ADO2. Additionally, our single-cell analyses reveal the heterogeneity of monocytes in ADO2, and the abnormal glycosylation modifications across various subtypes may represent important events in the pathogenesis of osteopetrosis.
PXD061819	40165954	Integrated multi-omics landscape of non-small cell lung cancer with distant metastasis. 	Integrated Multi-Omics Landscape of non-small cell lung cancer with distant metastasis	Exosome, Lung cancer, Metabolomic, metastasis	Background: Distant metastasis is one of the important factors affecting the prognosis of lung cancer patients. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) play an important role in the occurrence, development, and metastasis of cancer. However, it is currently unclear whether EVs in BALF are involved in distant tumor metastasis. Methods: we collected bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from patients with metastatic and non-metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) to isolate exosomes, which were then characterized by nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), followed by comprehensive metabolomic and proteomic analysis to ultimately construct a distant metastasis prediction model for non-small cell lung cancer. Results: Our research has found that the BALF of NSCLC patients is rich in EVs, which have typical morphology and size. There are significant differences in protein expression and metabolite types between patients with distant metastasis and those without distant metastasis. Sphingolipid metabolism pathways may be a key factor influencing distant metastasis in NSCLC. Subsequently, we constructed a predictive model for distant metastasis in NSCLC based on differentially expressed proteins identified by proteomics. This model has been proven to have high predictive value. Conclusion: The multi-omic analysis generated in this study provided a global overview of the molecular changes, which may provide useful insight into the therapy and prognosis of NSCLC metastasis.
PXD057573	40165968	Translation of bi-directional transcripts enhances MHC-I peptide diversity. 	Translation of bi-directional transcripts generates peptides for the MHC-I pathway.	MHC-I pathway, polysomes	Antisense transcripts play an important role in generating regulatory non-coding RNAs but whether these transcripts are also translated to generate functional peptides remains poorly understood. In this study, RNA sequencing and six-frame database generation were combined with mass spectrometry analysis of peptides isolated from polysomes to identify Nascent Pioneer Translation Products (Na-PTPs) originating from alternative reading frames of bi-directional transcripts. Two Na-PTP originating peptides derived from antisense strands stimulated CD8(+) T cell proliferation when presented to peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from nine healthy donors. Importantly, an antigenic peptide derived from the reverse strand of two cDNA constructs was presented on MHC-I molecules and induced CD8(+) T cell activation. The results demonstrate that three-frame translation of bi-directional transcripts generates antigenic peptide substrates for the immune system. This discovery holds significance for understanding the origin of self-discriminating peptide substrates for the major histocompatibility class I (MHC-I) pathway and for enhancing immune-based therapies against infected or transformed cells.
PXD061104	40166321	Midkine Attenuates Abeta Fibril Assembly and Amyloid Plaque Formation. 	Profiling of the detergent-insoluble proteome of the cortical brain tissues by TMT-LC/LC-MS/MS	AD, MDK, TMT-LC/LC-MS/MS, detergent-insoluble	Proteomic profiling of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains has identified numerous understudied proteins, including midkine (MDK), that are highly upregulated and correlated with Abeta since the early disease stage, but their roles in disease progression are not fully understood. Here we present that MDK attenuates Abeta assembly and influences amyloid formation in the 5xFAD amyloidosis mouse model. MDK protein mitigates fibril formation of both Abeta40 and Abeta42 peptides in Thioflavin T fluorescence assay, circular dichroism, negative stain electron microscopy, and NMR analysis. Knockout of Mdk gene in 5xFAD increases amyloid formation and microglial activation. Further comprehensive mass spectrometry-based profiling of whole proteome and detergent-insoluble proteome in these mouse models indicates significant accumulation of Abeta and Abeta-correlated proteins, along with microglial components. Thus, our structural and mouse model studies reveal a protective role of MDK in counteracting amyloid pathology in Alzheimer's disease.
PXD055879	40167328	Fungal chromatin remodeler Isw1 modulates translation via regulating tRNA transcription. 	LC-MS-based quantitative proteomic analysis of PH-1 and FgIsw1	Fusarium graminearum, LC-MS quantitative proteomic analysis, label-free	Chromatin dynamics are essential for regulating DNA processes in response to environmental stimuli. Although ISWI-family enzymes are known to remodel chromatin by sliding nucleosomes in budding yeast, their functional roles and outputs in eukaryotes remain largely unknown. In this study, we investigated chromatin accessibility in the phytopathogenic fungus Fusarium graminearum treated with and without putrescine, a compound that rapidly induces the biosynthesis of the mycotoxin deoxynivalenol (DON). Putrescine globally alters chromatin accessibility, with the ATP-dependent chromatin remodeler FgIsw1 emerging as a key regulator. Unexpectedly, deletion of FgIsw1 did not affect the transcription of DON biosynthesis genes (Tri) but significantly disrupted transfer RNA (tRNA) transcription, leading to a dramatic decline in translation of DON biosynthesis enzymes. Mechanistically, FgIsw1 maintains nucleosome phasing in tRNA chromatin regions, ensuring efficient tRNA transcription. As a result, DeltaFgIsw1 was unable to produce DON and lost its virulence on the host plant. These results highlight a novel role of chromatin remodelers in regulating protein translation through the control of tRNA transcription.
PXD056993	40167990	The molecular basis of octocoral calcification revealed by genome and skeletal proteome analyses. 	Paragorgia papillata and Chrysogorgia sp. skeletal proteome	Axial skeleton, Chrysogorgia sp., Paragorgia papillata	The ability of octocorals and stony corals to deposit calcium carbonate (CaCO3) has contributed to their ecological success. Whereas stony corals possess a homogeneous aragonite skeleton, octocorals have developed distinct skeletal structures composed of different CaCO3 polymorphs and a skeletal organic matrix. Nevertheless, the molecular basis of skeletal structure formation in octocorals remains inadequately understood. Here, we sequenced the genomes and skeletal proteomes of two calcite-forming octocorals, namely Paragorgia papillata and Chrysogorgia sp. The assembled genomes sizes were 618.13 Mb and 781.04 Mb for P. papillata and Chrysogorgia sp., respectively, with contig N50s of 2.67 Mb and 2.61 Mb. Comparative genomic analyses identified 162 and 285 significantly expanded gene families in the genomes of P. papillata and Chrysogorgia sp., respectively, which are primarily associated with biomineralization and immune response. Furthermore, comparative analyses of skeletal proteomes demonstrated that corals with different CaCO3 polymorphs share a fundamental toolkit comprising cadherin, von Willebrand factor type A, and carbonic anhydrase domains for calcified skeleton deposition. In contrast, collagen is abundant in the calcite-forming octocoral skeletons but occurs rarely in aragonitic stony corals. Additionally, certain collagens have developed domains related to matrix adhesion and immunity, which may confer novel genetic functions in octocoral calcification. These findings enhance our understanding of the diverse forms of coral biomineralization processes and offer preliminary insights into the formation and evolution of the octocoral skeleton.
PXD057388	40169064	Comparative analysis of the structural dynamics of diphtheria toxin and CRM197 carrier proteins used in the development of conjugate vaccines. 	Comparative analysis of the structural dynamics of diphtheria toxin and CRM197 carrier proteins used in the development of conjugate vaccines	Biopharmaceutical products, CRM197, Hydrogen/Deuterium eXchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), comparative analysis, structural characterization	Carrier proteins are chemically linked to poorly immunogenic antigens to generate conjugate vaccines, significantly improving immunogenicity. CRM197, a genetically detoxified diphtheria toxin (DT) mutant carrying the G52E mutation, is a widely used carrier protein as it retains lysine residues for antigen conjugation. In the past, CRM197 has been expressed in Corynebacterium diphtheriae, but low yields and high costs have prompted the exploration of alternative expression systems. Although high-yield expression and native refolding of CRM197 in E. coli are challenging due to its reducing cytoplasm, recent advances have enabled the production of soluble and well-folded recombinant CRM197 proteins, namely EcoCRM(R) and EcoCRM(R)(-Met). In this study, we use Hydrogen/Deuterium eXchange Mass Spectrometry (HDX-MS) to compare the structural dynamics of EcoCRM and EcoCRM(-Met) with DT wild-type. Our HDX-MS data show that the presence or the absence of the N-terminal methionine does not affect the structural dynamics of the two recombinant EcoCRM proteins. Furthermore, our results elucidate the molecular mechanism underlying the lack of toxicity of CRM197 compared to DT wild-type: the G52E mutation in the CRM197 proteins exclusively alters the stability of the NAD-binding pocket and induces allosteric effects within the receptor-binding domain. Altogether, these insights support the substitution of CRM197 produced by C. diphtheriae with the recombinant EcoCRM and EcoCRM(-Met) proteins produced in E. coli, offering a cost-effective solution for use in conjugate vaccines. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD057388.
PXD059745	40169460	Downregulation of Hmox1 and Rpgrip1l Expression Linked to Risk-Taking Behavior, Reduced Depressive Symptoms, and Diminished Novelty Socialization in SUMO1 Knockout Mice. 	DIA-Brain-aged- target gene knockout mice	Brain, DIA, aged	SUMO1 is involved in the normal physiological functions of the nervous system and is also associated with the development of neurodegenerative diseases. Whereas, the effects and underling mechanisms of SUMO1 knockout (SUMO1- KO) on emotion- and cognition -related behaviors remain unexplored. We investigated changes in depression-like behaviors, social interaction, and cognition in SUMO1-KO mice compared to wild-type (WT) controls using the open-field test, tail suspension test, three-chamber test and novel object recognition test, respectively. To explore the underlying mechanisms of these behavioral differences, we performed Gene Ontology (GO) analysis of proteomics data and subsequently validated the findings through experimental verification. The results showed that SUMO1-KO mice exhibited increased risk-taking behavior, reduced depressive symptoms, and diminished novelty socialization compared to WT mice. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics analysis revealed 370 upregulated proteins and downregulated 84 proteins. GO annotation analysis identified significant enrichment of amino acid transmembrane transporter activities and ion channel. We further investigated two behavior-associated proteins, Hmox1 and Rpgrip1l, and validated their downregulated expression. We concluded that decreased expression of Hmox1 and Rpgrip1l associated with the risk-taking behavior, reduced depressive symptoms, and diminished novelty socialization observed in SUMO1-KO mice.
PXD056215	40169592	A toxin-antitoxin system provides phage defense via DNA damage and repair. 	Effects of ShosTA system on E.coli	Anti-phage, ShosTA, Toxin-antitoxin system	Widespread in bacteria and archaea, toxin-antitoxin (TA) systems have been recently demonstrated to function in phage defense. Here we characterize the anti-phage function of a type IV TA system, ShosTA. Using structural and biochemical approaches, we show that ShosT couples phosphoribosyltransferase and pyrophosphatase activities to disrupt purine metabolism, resulting in DNA duplication, cell filamentation and ultimate cell death. ShosA binds DNA and likely recruits other proteins to facilitate DNA homologous recombination to antagonize ShosT's toxicity. We identify Gp0.7 of T7 phage as a trigger for ShosTA system via shutting off the protein synthesis, and the C-terminus-mediated intrinsic instability of ShosA releases the toxicity of the existing ShosT proteins. Collectively, our results provide a novel toxin-antitoxin mechanism for anti-phage immunity and shed light on the triggering of this TA system.
PXD061285	40169677	Endosomal chloride/proton exchangers need inhibitory TMEM9 beta-subunits for regulation and prevention of disease-causing overactivity. 	Endosomal chloride/proton exchangers need inhibitory TMEM9 beta-subunits for regulation and prevention of disease-causing overactivity	AP-MS, auxiliary subunits, chloride channels, membrane protein complex, mouse brain, protein-protein interactions	The function of endosomes critically depends on their ion homeostasis. A crucial role of luminal Cl(-), in addition to that of H(+), is increasingly recognized. Both ions are transported by five distinct endolysosomal CLC chloride/proton exchangers. Dysfunction of each of these transporters entails severe disease. Here we identified TMEM9 and TMEM9B as obligatory beta-subunits for endosomal ClC-3, ClC-4, and ClC-5. Mice lacking both beta-subunits displayed severely reduced levels of all three CLCs and died embryonically or shortly after birth. TMEM9 proteins regulate trafficking of their partners. Surprisingly, they also strongly inhibit CLC ion transport. Tonic inhibition enables the regulation of CLCs and prevents toxic Cl(-) accumulation and swelling of endosomes. Inhibition requires a carboxy-terminal TMEM9 domain that interacts with CLCs at multiple sites. Disease-causing CLCN mutations that weaken inhibition by TMEM9 proteins cause a pathogenic gain of ion transport. Our work reveals the need to suppress, in a regulated manner, endolysosomal chloride/proton exchange. Several aspects of endosomal ion transport must be revised.
PXD051407	40169779	Multi-epitope immunocapture of huntingtin reveals striatum-selective molecular signatures. 	Targeted MS validation of huntingtin protein interaction signatures in Huntington's disease mouse models	HTT, IP-MS, PRM, S-Trap	Huntington's disease (HD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disorder affecting an individual's cognitive and motor abilities. HD is caused by a mutation in the huntingtin gene producing a toxic polyglutamine-expanded protein (mHTT) and leading to degeneration in the striatum and cortex. Yet, the molecular signatures that underlie tissue-specific vulnerabilities remain unclear. Here, we investigate this aspect by leveraging multi-epitope protein interaction assays, subcellular fractionation, thermal proteome profiling, and genetic modifier assays. The use of human cell, mouse, and fly models afforded capture of distinct subcellular pools of epitope-enriched and tissue-dependent interactions linked to dysregulated cellular pathways and disease relevance. We established an HTT association with nearly all subunits of the transcriptional regulatory Mediator complex (20/26), with preferential enrichment of MED15 in the tail domain. Using HD and KO models, we find HTT modulates the subcellular localization and assembly of the Mediator. We demonstrated striatal enriched and functional interactions with regulators of calcium homeostasis and chromatin remodeling, whose disease relevance was supported by HD fly genetic modifiers assays. Altogether, we offer insights into tissue- and localization-dependent (m)HTT functions and pathobiology.
PXD055537	40170697	Lysyl Oxidases Are Necessary for Myometrial Contractility and On-time Parturition in Mice. 	Lysyl Oxidases are Necessary for Myometrial Contractility and On-Time Parturition in Mice	Extracellular matrix, Lysyl oxidase, Myometrium, Parturition, Pregnancy	The extracellular matrix (ECM) plays a pivotal role in the maintenance of tissue mechanical homeostasis. Collagens and elastic fibers are the most predominant fibrous ECM proteins providing tissue mechanical function through covalent cross-linking, which is mediated by the lysyl oxidase family of enzymes. In this study, the function of lysyl oxidases in maintaining the integrity of the extracellular matrix in the myometrium and its impact on parturition-timing was investigated. Gene and protein expression analyses demonstrate that a subset of the lysyl oxidase family of enzymes are highly induced in pregnant myometrium. Inhibition of the activity of the lysyl oxidase family of enzymes through beta-aminopropionitrile (BAPN) delays parturition in mice, in part because of myometrial dysfunction. In BAPN-treated mice, the expression of genes encoding contraction-associated proteins such as connexin 43, oxytocin receptor, and prostaglandin synthase 2, is significantly reduced in the myometrium compared to the untreated control mice. Proteomic analysis revealed that the composition of the ECM is altered in response to BAPN treatment, which demonstrates that the inhibition of the activity of lysyl oxidases disrupted the integrity of the myometrial ECM. Our findings demonstrate that the lysyl oxidases-mediated ECM function is necessary for the myometrium to transition from a quiescent to a contractile phenotype at term for on-time parturition.
PXD054387	40171492	Unveiling the substrate specificity of the ABC transporter Tba and its role in glycopeptide biosynthesis. 	Elucidation of the substrate specificity of the ABC transporter Tba uncovers an unsuspected role in the biosynthesis of glycopeptide antibiotics	ABC Transporter, Amycolatopsis balhimycina, Balhimycin, Glycopeptide antibiotics	Glycopeptide antibiotics (GPA) such as vancomycin are essential last-resort antibiotics produced by actinomycetes. Their biosynthesis is encoded within biosynthetic gene clusters, also harboring genes for regulation, and transport. Diverse types of GPAs have been characterized that differ in peptide backbone composition and modification patterns. However, little is known about the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters facilitating GPA export. Employing a multifaceted approach, we investigated the substrate specificity of GPA ABC-transporters toward the type-I GPA balhimycin. Phylogenetic analysis suggested and trans-complementation experiments confirmed that balhimycin is exported only by the related type I GPA transporters Tba and Tva (transporter of vancomycin). Molecular dynamics simulations and mutagenesis experiments showed that Tba exhibits specificity toward the peptide backbone rather than the modifications. Unexpectedly, deletion or functional inactivation of Tba halted balhimycin biosynthesis. Combined with proximity biotinylation experiments, this suggested that the interaction of the active transporter with the biosynthetic machinery is required for biosynthesis.
PXD061617	40171808	Multi-Omic Analysis Reveals Astrocytic Annexin-A2 as Critical for Network-Level Circadian Timekeeping in the Suprachiasmatic Nucleus. 	Circadian proteomics of the mouse Suprachiasmatic Nucleus	Circadian, SCN	The mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) orchestrates daily (circadian) rhythms of physiology and behavior by broadcasting timing cues generated autonomously by its mutually reinforcing network of ~10,000 neurons and ~3000 astrocytes. Although astrocytic control of extracellular glutamate and GABA has been implicated in driving circadian oscillations in SCN gene expression and neuronal activity, the full scale of the network-level signaling mechanisms is unknown. To understand better how this astrocyte-neuron network operates, we adopted a multi-omics approach, first using SILAC-based mass spectrometry to generate an SCN proteome where ~7% of identified proteins were circadian. This circadian proteome was analyzed bioinformatically alongside existing single-cell RNAseq transcriptomic data to identify the cell-types and processes to which they contribute. This highlighted "S100 protein binding," tracked to astrocytes, and revealed annexin-A2 (Anxa2) as an astrocyte-enriched circadian protein for further investigation. We show that Anxa2 and its partner S100a10 are co-expressed and enriched in SCN astrocytes. We also show that pharmacological disruption of their association acutely and reversibly dysregulated the circadian cycle of astrocytic calcium levels and progressively compromised SCN neuronal oscillations. Anxa2 and S100a10 interaction therefore constitutes an astrocytic cellular signaling axis that regulates circadian neuronal excitability and ultimately SCN network coherence necessary for circadian timekeeping.
PXD060675	40172090	Protein succinylome analysis identifies citrate synthase as a central regulator of osteoclast metabolic activity. 	Protein Succinylome analysis identifies citrate synthase as a central  regulator of osteoclast metabolic activity	RANKL, citrate synthase, post translational modification, steoclast, succinylation	Tumour necrosis factor ligand superfamily member 11 (TNFSF11; RANKL) and macrophage colony-stimulating factor 1 receptor (M-CSF) differentiate macrophages into osteoclasts. This process is characterised by changes in metabolic activity that support energy-consuming processes. Treatment with RANKL triggers a phenotype of accelerated metabolism with enhanced glycolysis and an initial disruption of the tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) through increased expression of the enzyme aconitate decarboxylase (ACOD1), which results in an upregulation of intracellular succinate levels. Succinate then causes post-translational succinylation of lysine residues. ACOD1 as an inducer of protein succinylation and the desuccinylase NAD-dependent protein deacylase sirtuin-5, mitochondrial (SIRT5) are regulated differentially, and the initially high expression of ACOD1 decreases towards the end of differentiation, whereas SIRT5 levels increase. To mimic the effect of protein succinylation, diethyl succinate or a SIRT5 inhibitor was added during differentiation, which reduced the formation of large osteoclasts, showing its relevance for osteoclastogenesis. To identify succinylated proteins, we used an immunoaffinity-based liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) approach. Most lysine succinylated proteins were mitochondrial metabolic enzymes. Citrate synthase (CS), the enzyme catalysing the first reaction of the TCA cycle, showed a notable difference in succinylation levels before and after RANKL stimulation, with succinylation detected exclusively in stimulated cells. Immunoprecipitation assays confirmed CS succinylation. Using whole cell extracts, we observed that RANKL treatment decreased CS activity in a concentration-dependent manner. This suggests that CS could be critical in the context of energy production during osteoclastogenesis and that protein succinylation modulates the differentiation program of osteoclasts.
PXD059229	40172206	Proteogenomic analysis of Cyprinid herpesvirus 2 using high-resolution mass spectrometry. 	Proteogenomic Analysis of Cyprinid Herpesvirus 2	CyHV-2, Proteogenomic	Cyprinid herpesvirus 2 (CyHV-2) is the main pathogen responsible for the development of herpesviral hematopoietic necrosis disease (HVHND) in crucian carp (Carassius auratus). The CyHV-2 genome encodes approximately 150 genes that are expressed in a well-defined manner during productive infection. However, CyHV-2 open reading frames (ORFs) are primarily derived from sequence and homology analyses, and most lack protein-level evidence to support their properties. In this study, we used high-resolution mass spectrometry followed by proteogenomic mapping to achieve genome re-annotation of CyHV-2. Based on our results, a total of 1,683 MS/MS spectra could be mapped to the CyHV-2 genome through six-frame translation, with 1,665 corresponding to 117 currently annotated protein-coding ORFs. Three of the remaining 18 peptides were mapped to the N-terminal extension region of known ORFs. However, 12 novel CyHV-2 ORFs, designated nORF1-12, were identified and characterized for the first time based on the remaining 15 peptides that could be mapped to previously unannotated regions of the viral genome. And the sequence differences of the novel phosphorylated nORF1, also referred to as ORF25E, in different CyHV-2 strains indicated that the nORF1 is a prospective molecular marker that can monitor the evolution from the Japan (J) to the China (C) genotype of CyHV-2. These findings further validate existing annotations, expand the genomic landscape of CyHV-2, and provide a rich resource for aquatic virology research.IMPORTANCECyHV-2 is a viral pathogen that poses a significant threat to crucian carp farming. CyHV-2 has a large genome with complex sequence features and diverse coding mechanisms, which complicates accurate genome annotation in the absence of protein-level evidence. Here, we employed various protein extraction and separation methods to increase viral protein coverage and performed an integrated proteogenomic analysis to refine the CyHV-2 genome annotation. A total of 129 viral genes were confidently identified, including 117 currently annotated genes and 12 novel genes. For the first time, we present large-scale evidence of peptide presence and levels in the genome of aquatic viruses and confirm the majority of the predicted proteins in CyHV-2. Our findings enhance the understanding of the CyHV-2 genome structure and provide valuable insights for future studies on CyHV-2 biology.
PXD045873	40172491	Candida albicans biofilm extracellular vesicles deliver candidalysin to epithelial cell membranes and induce host cell responses. 	Candida albicans biofilm extracellular vesicles deliver candidalysin to epithelial cell membranes and induce host cell responses	Candida albicans, biofilm, vesicles	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are heterogeneous particles encapsulated with a phospholipid bilayer membrane. EVs have evolved diverse biological functions, serving mainly as prominent mediators and regulators of cell-cell communication. This study investigated whether candidalysin, a key virulence factor in Candida albicans infections, is present within EVs derived from C. albicans biofilms and retains activity by inducing host immune responses. We found that biofilm EVs contain candidalysin and can permeabilize planar lipid bilayer membranes in a dose-dependent manner. However, biofilm EVs were unable to damage oral epithelial cells (OECs) but were able to induce cytokine responses. Notably, EVs obtained from biofilms cultured for 24 h and 48 h exhibited differences in cargo composition and their ability to activate OECs. This study highlights the potential of biofilm EVs as a toxin delivery system during C. albicans infection and identifies temporal differences in the ability of EVs to activate epithelial cells.
PXD056544	40173236	Neural stimulation suppresses mTORC1-mediated protein synthesis in skeletal muscle. 	Nerve activity inhibits mTORC1-dependent protein synthesis in skeletal muscle	mTORC1, protein synthesis, skeletal muscle	Skeletal muscle fibers are classified as glycolytic or oxidative, with differing susceptibilities to muscle wasting. However, the intracellular signaling pathways regulating fiber-specific muscle trophism remain unclear because of a lack of experimental models measuring protein synthesis. We developed a mouse model overexpressing a mutated transfer RNA synthetase in muscle fibers, enabling specific protein labeling using an artificial methionine substitute, which can be revealed through click chemistry. This model revealed that denervation increases protein labeling in oxidative muscle fibers through mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) activation, while deleting the mTORC1 scaffold protein Raptor reduces labeling in glycolytic fibers. On the other hand, increased muscle activity acutely decreases protein synthesis, accompanied by reduced mTORC1 signaling, glycogen depletion, and adenosine 5'-monophosphate kinase activation. Our findings identify nerve activity as an inhibitory signal for mTORC1-dependent protein synthesis in skeletal muscle, enhancing the understanding of fiber-specific responses to exercise and pathological conditions.
PXD057994	40175289	Glycoproteomics Analysis of Triple Wild-Type Lung Adenocarcinoma Tissue Samples. 	Glycoproteomics analysis of triple wild-type lung adenocarcinoma tissue samples	DatasetType:Proteomics, N-glycosylation, adenocarcinoma, cancer, glycoproteomics, lung adenocarcinoma, lung cancer, tissue, tissue microarray, triple wild, triple wild-type	Lung cancer has both high incidence and mortality, making it the leading cause of cancer-related mortality worldwide. It is a highly heterogeneous disease, with several histological subtypes and genetic alterations that influence prognosis and available treatment options. Here, we focus on the triple wild-type (TWT) subtype of lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) that lacks the three most common actionable genetic alterations, subsequently making targeted therapies inaccessible. In this study, our aim was the mass spectrometry-based proteomic and N-glycoproteomic characterization of tumor and adjacent normal lung tissue regions from individuals (n = 12) with TWT LUAD. We found several proteins previously identified as potential prognostic or diagnostic biomarkers in LUAD and described dysregulated biological processes, giving an overview of the general differences between healthy and tumor tissue. Also, we highlight specific signatures detected using N-glycoproteomics and discuss their potential and importance based on data from databases and literature. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first N-glycoproteomics-focused study on TWT LUAD, and it could provide a valuable resource for further studies into this less well characterized subtype of lung cancer. For instance, we report altered N-glycosylation for several glycoproteins implicated in LUAD and other cancers that could have functional importance connected to the disease.
PXD051134	40179885	Therapeutic potential of allosteric HECT E3 ligase inhibition. 	Therapeutic potential of allosteric HECT E3 ligase inhibition	E6AP, HECT, SMURF1, Ubiquitin E3-ligase, allosteric inhibition, drug discovery, glycine hinge, pulmonary arterial hypertension, small molecule, vascular remodeling	Targeting ubiquitin E3 ligases is therapeutically attractive; however, the absence of an active-site pocket impedes computational approaches for identifying inhibitors. In a large, unbiased biochemical screen, we discover inhibitors that bind a cryptic cavity distant from the catalytic cysteine of the homologous to E6-associated protein C terminus domain (HECT) E3 ligase, SMAD ubiquitin regulatory factor 1 (SMURF1). Structural and biochemical analyses and engineered escape mutants revealed that these inhibitors restrict an essential catalytic motion by extending an alpha helix over a conserved glycine hinge. SMURF1 levels are increased in pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), a disease caused by mutation of bone morphogenetic protein receptor-2 (BMPR2). We demonstrated that SMURF1 inhibition prevented BMPR2 ubiquitylation, normalized bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling, restored pulmonary vascular cell homeostasis, and reversed pathology in established experimental PAH. Leveraging this deep mechanistic understanding, we undertook an in silico machine-learning-based screen to identify inhibitors of the prototypic HECT E6AP and confirmed glycine-hinge-dependent allosteric activity in vitro. Inhibiting HECTs and other glycine-hinge proteins opens a new druggable space.
PXD060056	40180922	Cholangiocarcinoma PDHA1 succinylation suppresses macrophage antigen presentation via alpha-ketoglutaric acid accumulation. 	Cholangiocarcinoma Cell of PDHA1 MS	MS, PDHA1, cholangiocarcinoma	Gemcitabine combined with cisplatin is the first-line chemotherapy for advanced cholangiocarcinoma, but drug resistance remains a challenge, leading to unsatisfactory therapeutic effect. Here, we elucidate the possibility of chemotherapy regimens sensitized by inhibiting succinylation in patients with cholangiocarcinoma from the perspective of post-translational modification. Our omics analysis reveals that succinylation of PDHA1 lysine 83, a key enzyme in the tricarboxylic acid cycle, alters PDH enzyme activity, modulates metabolic flux, and leads to alpha-ketoglutaric acid accumulation in the tumor microenvironment. This process activates the OXGR1 receptor on macrophages, triggering MAPK signaling and inhibiting MHC-II antigen presentation, which promotes immune escape and tumor progression. Moreover, we show that inhibiting PDHA1 succinylation with CPI-613 enhances the efficacy of gemcitabine and cisplatin. Targeting PDHA1 succinylation may be a promising strategy to improve treatment outcomes in cholangiocarcinoma and warrants further clinical exploration.
PXD058635	40180929	Integrated proteogenomic characterization of localized prostate cancer identifies biological insights and subtype-specific therapeutic strategies. 	Proteomics of  prostate cancer cell lines	prostate cancer	Localized prostate cancer (PCa) is highly variable in their response to therapies. Although a fraction of this heterogeneity can be explained by clinical factors or genomic and transcriptomic profiling, the proteomic-based profiling of aggressive PCa remains poorly understood. Here, we profiled the genome, transcriptome, proteome and phosphoproteome of 145 cases of localized PCa in Chinese patients. Proteome-based stratification of localized PCa revealed three subtypes with distinct molecular features: immune subgroup, arachidonic acid metabolic subgroup and sialic acid metabolic subgroup with highest biochemical recurrence (BCR) rates. Further, we nominated NANS protein, a key enzyme in sialic acid synthesis as a potential prognostic biomarker for aggressive PCa and validated in two independent cohorts. Finally, taking advantage of cell-derived orthotopic transplanted mouse models, single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) and immunofluorescence analysis, we revealed that targeting NANS can reverse the immunosuppressive microenvironment through restricting the sialoglycan-sialic acid-recognizing immunoglobulin superfamily lectin (Siglec) axis, thereby inhibiting tumor growth of PCa. In sum, we integrate multi-omic data to refine molecular subtyping of localized PCa, and identify NANS as a potential prognostic biomarker and therapeutic option for aggressive PCa.
PXD056489	40184250	SMYD5 is a ribosomal methyltransferase that trimethylates RPL40 lysine 22 through recognition of a KXY motif. 	RPL40 methyltransferase discovery and characterisation	Protein methylation, methyltransferase, ribosome, translation	The eukaryotic ribosome is highly modified by protein methylation, yet many of the responsible methyltransferases remain unknown. Here, we identify SET and MYND domain-containing protein 5 (SMYD5) as a ribosomal protein methyltransferase that catalyzes trimethylation of RPL40/eL40 at lysine 22. Through a systematic mass spectrometry-based approach, we identify 12 primary sites of protein methylation in ribosomes from K562 cells, including at RPL40 K22. Through in vitro methylation of synthetic RPL40 using fractionated lysate, we then identify SMYD5 as a candidate RPL40 K22 methyltransferase. We show that recombinant SMYD5 has robust activity toward RPL40 K22 in vitro and that active site mutations ablate this activity. Knockouts of SMYD5 in K562 cells show a complete loss of RPL40 K22 methylation and decreased polysome levels. We show that SMYD5 does not methylate histones in vitro, and by systematic analysis of its recognition motif, we find that SMYD5 requires a KXY motif for methylation, explaining its lack of activity toward histones.
PXD058898	40185715	Generation and validation of a novel multitarget small molecule in glioblastoma. 	Characterization and validation of a novel multitarget small-molecule in glioblastoma	Glioblastoma, HDAC, MSM, apoptosis, cell cycle, glioma stem cells	The development of multitarget small molecules (MSMs) has emerged as a powerful strategy for the treatment of multifactorial diseases such as cancer. Glioblastoma is the most prevalent and malignant primary brain tumor in adults, which is characterized by poor prognosis and a high heterogeneity. Current standards of treatment present limited effectiveness, as patients develop therapy resistance and recur. In this work, we synthesized and characterized a novel multi-target molecule (named DDI199 or contilistat), which is a polyfunctionalized indole derivative developed by juxtaposing selected pharmacophoric moieties of the parent compounds Contilisant and Vorinostat (SAHA) to act as multifunctional ligands that inhibit histone deacetylases (HDACs), monoamine oxidases (MAOs) and cholinesterases (ChEs), and modulate histamine H3 (H3R) and Sigma 1 Receptor (S1R) receptors. DDI199 exerts high cytotoxic activity in conventional glioblastoma cell lines and patient-derived glioma stem cells in vitro. Importantly, it significantly reduces tumor growth in vivo, both alone and in combination with temozolomide (TMZ). The comparison with SAHA showed higher target specificity and antitumor activity of the new molecule. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of patient-derived glioma stem cells revealed a deregulation in cell cycle, DNA remodeling and neurotransmission activity by the treatment with DDI199. In conclusion, our data reveal the efficacy of a novel MSM in glioblastoma pre-clinical setting.
PXD061372	40185717	RIPK2 promotes colorectal cancer metastasis by protecting YAP degradation from ITCH-mediated ubiquitination. 	RIPK2 promotes colorectal cancer metastasis by protecting YAP degradation from ITCH-mediated ubiquitination	RIPK2, colorectal cancer	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the second leading cause of cancer-related death worldwide, making the exploration of metastatic mechanisms crucial for therapeutic advancements. In this study, we identified receptor-interacting protein kinase 2 (RIPK2) as an independent risk factor for poor CRC prognosis. Single-cell RNA sequencing and spatial transcriptomics revealed that a tumor cell cluster with high RIPK2 expression exhibited enhanced metastatic potential, closely linked to bacterial invasion. In vitro and in vivo experiments confirmed that RIPK2 specifically promotes tumor cell migration and invasion, rather than proliferation. Proteomic analysis indicated that RIPK2 knockdown leads to increased proteolysis mediated by ubiquitin, particularly affecting the oncoprotein YAP. Additionally, bacterial invasion of epithelial cells was significantly suppressed in RIPK2 knockdown cells, suggesting a connection to the NOD2-RIPK2 pathway, stimulated by bacterial muramyl dipeptide (MDP). We demonstrated that MDP levels are significantly higher in CRC tissues compared to adjacent non-cancerous tissues, correlating with RIPK2 activation. This activation triggers K63-linked ubiquitination of RIPK2, essential for NF-kappaB and MAPK pathway activation. Mechanistic studies identified the E3 ubiquitin ligase ITCH as a critical mediator, balancing K63-linked ubiquitination of RIPK2 and K48-linked ubiquitination of YAP, leading to YAP degradation and suppressed CRC metastasis. The stability of YAP could also be disrupted by GSK583, a pharmacological inhibitor of RIPK2, effectively suppressing CRC metastasis. Our findings provide deep insights into RIPK2's role in CRC progression and present a promising target for future therapeutic strategies.
PXD053203	40185728	Enzymatic Birch reduction via hydrogen atom transfer at [4Fe-4S]-OH2 and [8Fe-9S] clusters. 	Identification of Bzd Subunits / Aromatoleum sp. CIB	Benzoyl-CoA Reductase	The alkali metal- and ammonia-dependent Birch reduction is the classical synthetic method for achieving dihydro additions to arenes, typically yielding 1,4-cyclodienes. A mild biological alternative to this process are 1,5-dienoyl-coenzyme A (CoA)-forming class I and II benzoyl-CoA reductases (BCRs), widely abundant key enzymes in the biodegradation of aromatic compounds at anoxic environments. To obtain a comprehensive mechanistic understanding of class I BCR catalysis, we produced the active site subunits from a denitrifying bacterium and determined the X-ray structure of its substrate and product complexes at 1.4 Aa revealing non-canonical double-cubane [8Fe-9S] and active site aqua-[4Fe-4S] clusters. Together with kinetic, spectroscopic and QM/MM studies, we provide evidence for a radical mechanism with a [4Fe-4S] cluster-bound water molecule acting as hydrogen atom and electron donor at potentials beyond the biological redox window. An analogous Birch-like radical mechanism is applied by class II BCRs with the catalytic water bound to a tungsten-bis-metallopterin cofactor. The use of activated, metal-bound water ligands as hydrogen atom donor serves as a basic blueprint for future enzymatic or biomimetic Birch reduction processes.
PXD060460	40185859	Newly-diagnosed rheumatoid arthritis patients have elevated levels of plasma extracellular vesicles with protein cargo altered towards inflammatory processes. 	Newly-Diagnosed Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients have Elevated Levels of Plasma Extracellular Vesicles with Protein Cargo Altered Towards Inflammatory Processes	Extracellular Vesicle, Rheumatoid Arthritis, quantitative proteomics	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are implicated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) but have mainly been assessed in RA patients taking disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs. EVs are nanoparticles important in cell-cell communication and their molecular cargo are biomarker candidates. We characterized the protein profiles of EVs from blood plasma from newly diagnosed, treatment naive RA patients (N = 32) and compared them to healthy controls (N = 20), by size exclusion chromatography-based EV enrichment coupled with high-resolution quantitative proteomics. The RA patients had higher EV concentration and larger EVs than controls. A total of 682 EV proteins were reliably quantified, and the overall profiles were distinctly different between patients and controls. Specifically, 26 proteins were significantly upregulated and 31 downregulated in RA patients, with several proteins acting in inflammatory networks and with immunologically important upstream regulators. The RA associated EVs appear, based on the tissue expression of their cargo proteins, to originate mainly from hepatocytes or immune cells, like neutrophils. Interestingly, the strongest RA associated EV proteins were inflammatory molecules, like SAA1 and S100A9, already suggested as biomarkers in RA. Furthermore, the RA associated EV proteins were generally not correlated with total serum protein levels, stressing the importance of EV transport of inflammatory proteins in RA pathogenesis.
PXD058992	40186066	LILRB1-directed CAR-T cells for the treatment of hematological malignancies. 	Optimized Method for Cell Surface Protein Identification on Primary B-Cell Precursor Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia Cells	B cell, BCP-ALL, PDX, biotinylation, immunotherapy, leukemia, mixed lineage leukemia, patient-derived xenograft, surfaceome, target	CD19 CAR-T cells have established a new standard for relapsed/refractory B-cell malignancies. However, the treatment fails in 50% of patients, often due to CD19 antigen loss. Alternative immunotherapies targeting other antigens are being tested but show limited efficacy, especially in cases of lineage switching or loss of B-cell phenotype, highlighting the need for novel targets. Herein, we identified leukocyte-immunoglobulin-like-receptor-B1 (LILRB1, CD85j) as a novel target for CAR-T cells through cell surface proteomics on patient-derived samples of high-risk B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL). LILRB1, an immune inhibitory receptor, is normally expressed only on monocytes and B-cells. We observed stable LILRB1 expression in B-ALL and B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (B-NHL), even after CD20/CD19-based immunotherapies. LILRB1 CAR-T cells showed antigen-specific antitumor activity in vitro against B-ALL/B-NHL cells, including those resistant to CD19 CAR-T-cells, and in vivo in B-ALL xenografts. Additionally, we identified LILRB1 in monocytic acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and demonstrated LILRB1 CAR-T cell cytotoxicity against AML cell lines in vitro and in vivo. These findings establish LILRB1 as a novel target for cancer immunotherapy and show evidence for the preclinical efficacy of LILRB1 CAR-T cells against haematological malignancies, including cases resistant to previous lines of immunotherapy, thus holding promise for further clinical development.
PXD060538	40186565	A Water-Soluble Aggregation-Induced Emission Photosensitizer with Intrinsic Antibacterial Activity as an Antiplanktonic and Antibiofilm Therapeutic Agent. 	A Water-Soluble Aggregation-Induced Emission Photosensitizer with Intrinsic Antibacterial Activity as an Antiplanktonic and Antibiofilm Therapeutic Agent	LC-MS, Staphylococcus aureus, biofilm	Photosensitizers (PSs) with aggregation-induced emission (AIE) properties have gained popularity for treating bacterial infections. However, most AIE PSs have a poor water solubility and low selectivity, limiting their applications in biological systems. Herein, we report a water-soluble and bacteria-targeting AIE PS that exhibits minimum cytotoxicity toward human cells with and without light irradiation. Acting as a narrow-spectrum antibacterial agent without light irradiation, TPA-1 eradicates planktonic Staphylococcus aureus and inhibits biofilm formation by targeting the S. aureus membrane, inhibiting the supercoiling activity of S. aureus DNA gyrase, and causing the downregulation of multiple essential proteins. Upon light irradiation, TPA-1 generates reactive oxygen species (ROS) that cause membrane damage, resulting in excellent antiplanktonic and antibiofilm activities against S. aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa, significantly reducing the number of viable bacteria in biofilms and promoting wound healing in vivo.
PXD057728	40187014	Butyric acid from ligilactobacillus animalis 2020MB acts on membrane BamA to control avian pathogenic escherichia coli. 	Proteomic analysis of butyric acid inhibition of the growth of E. coli	E. coli, butyric acid, proteomic analysis	Avian pathogenic Escherichia coli can cause high morbidity, mortality, and serious economic losses to the global poultry industry. Lactic acid bacteria inhibit the growth of many pathogens, including E. coli, but the underlying mechanism remains unclear. In this study, we investigated the effect of the cell-free supernatant of Ligilactobacillus animalis 2020MB isolated from the intestinal tract of chickens on specific pathogen-free chickens infected with E. coli. The cell-free supernatant-induced inhibition of E. coli infection was determined through clinical symptom observation, pathological analysis, and qPCR. Protease and heat treatments did not affect the antibacterial activity of cell-free supernatant, suggesting that an organic acid was the antibacterial substance. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and non-targeted metabolomics identified antibacterial activity for eight L. animalis 2020MB cell-free supernatant metabolites, including butyric, valeric, and succinic acids. The inhibitory activity of butyric acid was quantified by determining the minimal inhibitory concentration. Scanning electron microscopy, laser confocal microscopy, and proteomic analysis revealed that butyric acid altered the morphology and impaired the cell envelope integrity of target bacteria, leading to leakage of intracellular contents. BamA was identified as the membrane protein target for butyric acid. The findings reveal the molecular mechanism of action of L. animalis 2020MB in the chicken intestine against E. coli.
PXD055387	40187492	CellEKT: a robust chemical proteomics workflow to profile cellular target engagement of kinase inhibitors. 	Establishing an activity-based protein profiling platform to screen in situ kinase inhibitor engagement	ABPP, drug discovery, kinase, phosphoproteomics	The human genome encodes 518 protein kinases that are pivotal for drug discovery in various therapeutic areas such as cancer and autoimmune disorders. The majority of kinase inhibitors target the conserved ATP-binding pocket, making it difficult to develop selective inhibitors. To characterize and prioritize kinase-inhibiting drug candidates, efficient methods are desired to determine target engagement across the cellular kinome. In this study, we present CellEKT (Cellular Endogenous Kinase Targeting), an optimized and robust chemical proteomics platform for investigating cellular target engagement of endogenously expressed kinases using the sulfonyl fluoride-based probe XO44 and two new probes ALX005 and ALX011. The optimized workflow enabled the determination of the kinome interaction landscape of covalent and non-covalent drugs across over 300 kinases, expressed as half maximum inhibitory concentration (IC50), which were validated using distinct platforms like phosphoproteomics and NanoBRET. With CellEKT, target engagement profiles were linked to their substrate space. CellEKT has the ability to decrypt drug actions and to guide the discovery and development of drugs.
PXD050065	40187493	Cold Atmospheric Plasma Jet Promotes Wound Healing through CK2-coordinated PI3K/AKT and MAPK Signaling Pathways. 	Cold Atmospheric Plasma Jet Activated Medium Promotes Wound Healing through CK2-mediated ERK and AKT signaling pathways	CK2, Cold Atmospheric Plasma Jet, ERK, HaCaT, phosphorylation, wound healing	The promising role of cold atmospheric plasma jet (CAPJ) treatment in promoting wound healing has been widely documented in therapeutic implications. However, the fact that not all subjects respond equally to CAPJ necessitates the investigation of the underlying cellular mechanisms, which have been rarely understood so far. Given that wound healing is a complex and prolonged process, post-plasma-activated medium (PAM) treated keratinocytes were collected at two time points, 2 hours (receiving) and 24 hours (recovery), for (phospho)proteomic analysis to systematically dissect the molecular basis of CAPJ-promoted wound healing. The receiving (phospho)proteomics datasets, referred to the time point of 2 hours, revealed an apparent increase in the phosphorylation of CK2 and its-mediated PI3K/AKT and MAPK signaling pathways, accompanied by a prompted downstream physiological response of cell migration. Additionally, incorporating the network analysis of predicted kinases and their direct interactors, we reiterated that CAPJ influenced cell growth and migration, thereby paving the way for its role in subsequent wound healing processes. Further determining the proteome profiles at recovery phase, which is the time point of 24 hours, displayed a totally different view from the receiving proteome which had almost no change. The up-regulation of ROBOs/SLITs expression and vesicle trafficking and fusion-related proteins, along with the abundant presence of 14-3-3 family proteins, indicated that the persistent effect of PAM on the wound healing process could potentially promote keratinocyte-fibroblast crosstalk and stimulate extracellular matrix (ECM) synthesis upon epithelialization. Consistent with proteome patterns, CAPJ-treated wound tissues indeed showed a denser and well-organized ECM architecture, implying hastened epithelialization during wound healing. Collectively, we delineated the molecular basis of CAPJ-accelerated wound healing at early and late responses, providing valuable insights for treatment selection and the development of therapeutic strategies to achieve better outcomes.
PXD058977	40189091	Elucidating the enzymatic response of the white rot basidiomycete Abortiporus biennis for the downgrade of polystyrene. 	The secretome of the white-rot basidiomycete Abortiporus biennis LGAM 436 can cause significant modifications to polystyrene structure	Abortiporus, DDA, LFQ, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, biodegradation, fungi, plastic pollution, polystyrene, quantms, secretome, white-rot	Plastic pollution is a growing global environmental concern, with polyolefins such as polyethylene and polypropylene, as well as polystyrene (PS) constituting a significant amount of plastic waste. Both polyolefins and PS, when inappropriately disposed of in the environment, contribute to environmental contamination since they degrade slowly, with both abiotic and biotic factors contributing to their downgrade. In terms of the microbial effect on plastics, in recent decades, several studies have focused on the biodeterioration and assimilation of polyolefins, while more comprehensive degradation of PS by diverse organisms, including bacteria, fungi, and even insect larvae, has been documented. The present study investigates the biocatalytic potential of the white-rot basidiomycete Abortiporus biennis LGAM 436 for PS degradation. Building on prior research, we examined the ability of this fungal strain to modify the structure of different PS forms, including commercial expanded polystyrene (EPS) foam and amorphous PS film. In addition, we explored the impact of olive oil mill wastewater (OOMW) effluent as an enzymatic inducer to enhance the degradation process. Through gel permeation chromatography (GPC), surface morphology changes, and FTIR-ATR analysis, we assessed the extent of PS degradation and identified relevant enzymatic activities via proteomics. The findings offer insights into the discovery of novel fungal biocatalysts for addressing plastic pollution, particularly through the action of high-redox oxidative enzymes.
PXD062327	40189102	C3aR1 on beta cells Enhances beta cell Function and Survival to Maintain Glucose Homeostasis. 	C3aR1 on Beta Cells Enhances Beta Cell Function and Surivival to Maintain Glucose Homeostasis	LC-tims-MS/MS, Mouse pancreatic islets	OBJECTIVE AND METHODS: Pancreatic beta cell dysfunction is critical to the development of type 2 diabetes (T2D). Our previous studies suggested that C3aR1 on beta cells promotes insulin secretion and cell survival. However, as C3aR1 is expressed on many other cell types including within the islets, whole-body C3aR1 knockout models confound the analyses of direct impacts on beta cells. To clarify the role of C3aR1 in beta cells under T2D conditions, we generated beta cell-specific C3aR1 knockout mice. We assessed glucose homeostasis, focusing on beta cell function and mass under metabolic stress conditions, to interrogate the effects of C3aR1 on beta cells in a mouse model of T2D. We performed proteomic analyses on islets from control and beta cell-specific C3aR1 knockout mice. To determine potential translational relevance, C3AR1 was assessed alongside glucose-stimulated insulin secretion in human islets. RESULTS: We show that the complement receptor C3aR1 on beta cells plays an essential role in maintaining beta cell homeostasis, especially under the metabolic duress of obesity and T2D. Male mice with beta cell specific deletion of C3ar1 (beta-C3aR1 KO) exhibit worse glucose tolerance and lower insulin levels when fed regular or high fat diet. Under high fat diet, beta-C3aR1 KO also have diminished beta cell mass. Islets from beta-C3aR1 KO mice demonstrate impaired insulin secretion. beta cells lacking C3aR1 display increased susceptibility to lipotoxicity-mediated cell death. Markers of beta cell identity are decreased in beta-C3aR1 KO mice while stress markers are elevated. Disruption of C3ar1 on beta cells ablates the insulin secretory response to C3a, establishing a signaling axis between C3a and beta cell-derived C3aR1. Islet proteomic analyses highlight the MAPK pathway and mitochondrial dysfunction with C3aR1 loss in beta cells. Finally, we show that C3AR1 is positively correlated with insulin secretion in human islets. CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that C3aR1 expression on beta cells is necessary to maintain optimal beta cell function and preserve beta cell mass in T2D.
PXD059765	40189140	Spatial and development responses in the wheat leaf highlight the loss of chloroplast protein homeostasis during salt stress. 	Spatial and development responses in the wheat (Triticum aestivum) leaf highlight the loss of chloroplast protein homeostasis during salt stress.	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, leaf developmental gradient, protein homeostasis, salinity, wheat	Salinity stress in wheat affects physiological and biochemical parameters in tissues that alter plant development and ultimately lower crop yield. Shoot tissues can accumulate high concentrations of sodium over time through the transpiration stream coming from the roots. This imposes physiological responses that align salt effects with the basipetal developmental gradient of the monocot leaf. The role of metabolic processes in generating and responding to these increases in sodium concentration over time was explored by linking changes in ion distributions to those of enzyme abundance from the base to the tip of leaves under salt stress. We found that enzymes for methionine synthesis and lipid degradation pathways increase, concomitantly with proteins in jasmonate synthesis, which are key players in plant stress-induced responses. Combining the use of Differential Abundance of Protein analysis and Weighted Correlation Network Analysis we have focused on identifying key protein hubs associated with responses to salt stress or salt susceptibility, shedding light on potential sites of salt sensitivity as targets for enhancing salt tolerance in wheat. We found chloroplast protein synthesis machinery, including the 30S and 50S ribosomal proteins, and plastid localised protein synthesis elongation factors, were significantly reduced in abundance and correlated with the altered K(+)/Na(+) ratio along salt-stressed wheat leaves. Additionally, the plastid protease system including ATP-dependent caseinolytic protease and filamentous temperature-sensitive H proteases involved in chloroplast protein homeostasis, show decreased abundance with salt. The complex interplay of these processes in and across the leaf affects overall plant viability under salt stress mainly affecting the energy homeostasis in wheat shoot. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD059765. SIGNIFICANCE: Soil salinity is a major agricultural challenge that cause significant reduction in wheat yields, a staple crop vital for global food security. Despite extensive breeding efforts, developing salt-tolerant wheat remains challenging due to the complex, multi-genic nature of salinity tolerance. While numerous studies have explored molecular responses to salt stress making salt to control comparisons, there is little consensus on the primary points of metabolic disruptions that would determine the salt response in wheat. Our study addresses this gap by integrating proteomics with Weighted Coexpression Network Analysis (WCNA) to examine metabolic responses along the developmental gradient of wheat leaves. By exploiting the natural base-to-tip progression of leaf maturation under salt stress, we identify key protein groups linked to salt response. These findings provide new insights potential metabolic targets for enhancing wheat's resilience to salinity stress.
PXD058606	40189563	Pharmacological targeting of the mitochondrial phosphatase PTPMT1 sensitizes hepatocellular carcinoma to ferroptosis. 	Pharmacological targeting of the mitochondrial phosphatase PTPMT1 sensitizes hepatocellular carcinoma to ferroptosis	PTPMT1, TCA cycle, ferroptosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, mitochondria	Protein tyrosine phosphatase mitochondrial 1 (PTPMT1), is a member of the protein tyrosine phosphatase superfamily localized on the mitochondrial inner membrane, and regulates the biosynthesis of cardiolipin. Given the important position of PTPMT1 in mitochondrial function and metabolism, pharmacological targeting of PTPMT1 is considered a promising manner in disease treatments. In this study, we mainly investigated the role of PTPMT1 in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) ferroptosis, a new type of cell death accompanied by significant iron accumulation and lipid peroxidation. Herein, the pharmacological inhibition of PTPMT1 was induced by alexidine dihydrochloride (AD, a dibiguanide compound). Human HCC cell lines with PTPMT1 knockout and PTPMT1 overexpression were established using CRISPR/Cas9 and lentiviral transduction methods, respectively. The position of PTPMT1 in regulating HCC ferroptosis was evaluated in vitro and in vivo. Our results indicated that pharmacological inhibition of PTPMT1, facilitated by AD treatment, heightens the susceptibility of HCC to cystine deprivation-ferroptosis, and AD treatment promoted the conversion from ferritin-bound Fe(3+) to free Fe(2+), which contributed to the labile iron pool in cytoplasm. Meanwhile, pharmacological inhibition of PTPMT1 also induced the formation of both swollen mitochondria and donut mitochondria, and enhanced the metabolism process form succinate to fumarate in mitochondrial tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, which increased the sensitivity of HCC cells to cystine deprivation-induced ferroptosis. In total, our work reveals the close association of PTPMT1 with cysteine deprivation-induced ferroptosis, providing a novel insight into chemotherapy strategies against human HCC.
PXD047014	40191338	Methodological Aspects of muLC-MS/MS for Wide-Scale Proteomic Analysis of Anthracycline-Induced Cardiomyopathy. 	Methodological aspects of LC-MS/MS for wide-scale proteomic analysis of anthracycline-induced cardiomyopathy	2D-separation, TMT, cardiotoxicity, daunorubicin, microLC-MS/MS	The efforts to utilize microflow liquid chromatography hyphenated to tandem mass spectrometry (muLC-MS/MS) for deep-scale proteomic analysis are still growing. In this work, two-dimensional LC separation and peptide derivatization by a tandem mass tag (TMT) were used to assess the capability of muLC-MS/MS to reveal protein changes associated with the severe chronic anthracycline cardiotoxicity phenotype in comparison with nanoflow liquid chromatography (nLC-MS/MS). The analysis of the control and anthracycline-treated rabbit myocardium by muLC-MS/MS and nLC-MS/MS allowed quantification of 3956 and 4549 proteins, respectively, with 84% of these proteins shared in both data sets. Both nLC-MS/MS and muLC-MS/MS revealed marked global proteome dysregulation in severe anthracycline cardiotoxicity, with a significant change in approximately 55% of all detected proteins. The muLC-MS/MS analysis allowed less compressed and more precise determination of the TMT channel ratio and correspondingly broader fold-change protein distribution than nLC-MS/MS. The total number of significantly changed proteins was higher in nLC-MS/MS (2498 vs 2183, 1900 proteins shared), whereas the opposite was true for a number of significantly changed proteins with a fold-change cutoff >= 2 (535 vs 820). The profound changes concerned mainly proteins of cardiomyocyte sarcomeres, costameres, intercalated discs, mitochondria, and extracellular matrix. In addition, distinct alterations in immune and defense response were found with a remarkable involvement of type I interferon signaling that has been recently hypothesized to be essential for anthracycline cardiotoxicity pathogenesis. Hence, muLC-MS/MS was found to be a sound alternative to nLC-MS/MS that can be useful for comprehensive mapping of global myocardial proteome alterations such as those associated with severe anthracycline cardiotoxicity.
PXD036780	40195294	RNA G-quadruplexes control mitochondria-localized mRNA translation and energy metabolism. 	RNA G-quadruplex dynamic steers the crosstalk between protein synthesis and energy metabolism	co-immunoprecipitation, hnRNPU	Cancer cells rely on mitochondria for their bioenergetic supply and macromolecule synthesis. Central to mitochondrial function is the regulation of mitochondrial protein synthesis, which primarily depends on the cytoplasmic translation of nuclear-encoded mitochondrial mRNAs whose protein products are imported into mitochondria. Despite the growing evidence that mitochondrial protein synthesis contributes to the onset and progression of cancer, and can thus offer new opportunities for cancer therapy, knowledge of the underlying molecular mechanisms remains limited. Here, we show that RNA G-quadruplexes (RG4s) regulate mitochondrial function by modulating cytoplasmic mRNA translation of nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins. Our data support a model whereby the RG4 folding dynamics, under the control of oncogenic signaling and modulated by small molecule ligands or RG4-binding proteins, modifies mitochondria-localized cytoplasmic protein synthesis. Ultimately, this impairs mitochondrial functions, affecting energy metabolism and consequently cancer cell proliferation.
PXD054747	40195304	The SIRT1 activator SRT2104 exerts exercise mimetic effects and promotes Duchenne muscular dystrophy recovery. 	Proteomics analysis of the SIRT1 activating compound SRT2104 effect on tibialis anterior muscle in Duchenne muscular dystrophy	Duchenne muscular dystrophy, Sirtuin 1, acetylome, mdx mice	Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a devastating genetic disorder, whose management is still a major challenge, despite progress in genetic and pharmacological disease-modifying treatments have been made. Mitochondrial dysfunctions contribute to DMD, however, there are no effective mitochondrial therapies for DMD. SIRT1 is a NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase that controls several key processes and whose impairment is involved in determining mitochondrial dysfunction in DMD. In addition to well-known resveratrol, other potent selective activators of SIRT1 exist, with better pharmacokinetics properties and a safer profile. Among these, SRT2104 is the most promising and advanced in clinical studies. Here we unveil the beneficial effects of SRT2104 in flies, mice, and patient-derived myoblasts as different models of DMD, demonstrating an anti-inflammatory, anti-fibrotic, and pro-regenerative action of the drug. We elucidate, by molecular dynamics simulations, that a conformational selection mechanism is responsible for the activation of SIRT1. Further, the impact of SRT2104 in reshaping muscle proteome and acetylome profiles has been investigated, highlighting effects that mimic those induced by exercise. Overall, our data suggest SRT2104 as a possible therapeutic candidate to successfully counteract DMD progression.
PXD061574	40195307	Lactobacillus acidophilus potentiates oncolytic virotherapy through modulating gut microbiota homeostasis in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Lactobacillus acidophilus potentiates oncolytic virotherapy through modulating gut microbiota homeostasis in hepatocellular carcinoma	LC-MS, colon, mice, oncolytic virus	Oncolytic viruses (OVs) hold promise for cancer treatment. However, the antitumor efficacy is limited. Microbiota plays a pivotal role in cancer treatment and its impact on oncolytic virotherapy is unknown. Here, we show that VSVDelta51 has higher antitumor efficacy for hepatocellular carcinoma in the absence of microbiota in female mouse models. VSVDelta51 infection causes microbiota dysbiosis, increasing most of the gut bacteria abundance, while decreasing the commensal Lactobacillus. VSVDelta51 reduced intestinal expression of SLC20A1 that binds to Lactobacillus acidophilus (L. acidophilus) CdpA cell wall protein through IL6-JAK-STAT3 signaling, thereby attenuating attachment and colonization of L. acidophilus. L. acidophilus supplementation confers sensitivity to VSVDelta51 through restoring gut barrier integrity and microbiota homeostasis destroyed by VSVDelta51. In this work, we show that targeting microbiota homostasis holds substantial potential in improving therapeutic outcomes of oncolytic virotherapy.
PXD036898	40195316	Targeting Viperin prevents coxsackievirus B3-induced acute heart failure. 	Viperin Mediates Coxsackievirus B3-induced Acute Heart Failure via KCNQ1 Ion Channel	CVB3, SGK1, Viperin, acute heart failure	Coxsackievirus B3 (CVB3)-induced acute heart failure (AHF) is a common cause of cardiogenic death in young- and middle-aged people. However, the key molecular events linking CVB3 to AHF remain largely unknown, resulting in a lack of targeted therapy strategies thus far. Here, we unexpectedly found that Viperin deficiency does not promote CVB3 infection but protects mice from CVB3-induced AHF. Importantly, cardiac-specific expression of Viperin can induce cardiac dysfunction. Mechanistically, CVB3-encoded 3C protease rescues Viperin protein expression in cardiomyocytes by lowering UBE4A. Viperin in turn interacts with and reduces STAT1 to activate SGK1-KCNQ1 signaling, and eventually leads to cardiac electrical dysfunction and subsequent AHF. Furthermore, we designed an interfering peptide VS-IP1, which blocked Viperin-mediated STAT1 degradation and therefore prevented CVB3-induced AHF. This study established the first signaling link between CVB3 and cardiac electrical dysfunction, and revealed the potential of interfering peptides targeting Viperin for the treatment of CVB3-induced AHF.
PXD057944	40195501	Interferon-induced PARP14-mediated ADP-ribosylation in p62 bodies requires the ubiquitin-proteasome system. 	Interferon-Induced PARP14-Mediated ADP-Ribosylation in p62 Bodies Requires an Active Ubiquitin-Proteasome System	ADPr, Biomolecular condensates, DTX3L, PARP, p62	Biomolecular condensates are cellular compartments without enveloping membranes, enabling them to dynamically adjust their composition in response to environmental changes through post-translational modifications. Recent work has revealed that interferon-induced ADP-ribosylation (ADPr), which can be reversed by a SARS-CoV-2-encoded hydrolase, is enriched within a condensate. However, the identity of the condensate and the responsible host ADP-ribosyltransferase remain elusive. Here, we demonstrate that interferon induces ADPr through transcriptional activation of PARP14, requiring both the physical presence and catalytic activity of PARP14 for condensate formation. Interferon-induced ADPr colocalizes with PARP14 and its associated E3 ligase, DTX3L. These PARP14/ADPr condensates contain key components of p62 bodies-including the selective autophagy receptor p62, its binding partner NBR1 and the associated protein TAX1BP1, along with K48-linked and K63-linked polyubiquitin chains-but lack the autophagosome marker LC3B. Knockdown of p62 disrupts the formation of these ADPr condensates. Importantly, these structures are unaffected by autophagy inhibition, but depend on ubiquitination and proteasome activity. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that interferon triggers PARP14-mediated ADP-ribosylation in p62 bodies, which requires an active ubiquitin-proteasome system.
PXD045487	40196120	Cytokine interactions and chemokine dysregulations in mastitis immunopathogenesis: insights from transcriptomic profiling of milk somatic cells in tropical Sahiwal (Bos indicus) cows. 	Milk somatic cell proteomic profiling identifies potential biomarkers of host immune-related proteins regulating Bovine mastitis in tropical India's Sahiwal cows	biomarkers, bovine mastitis, differentially abundant proteins, host defense, milk SCC	Introduction: Bovine mastitis causes a significant loss to the dairy industry by affecting the quantity and quality of milk. Addressing this challenge, the present study will leverage advanced omics techniques for early mastitis detection in early lactating Sahiwal cows (Bos indicus). This was the first differential transcriptomic study investigating the alterations in gene expression in milk somatic cells during the progression of naturally occurring mastitis in indigenous Sahiwal cows. Methods: Cows were grouped into healthy (H), subclinical mastitis (SCM) and clinical mastitis (CM) groups by thoroughly screening them using the California Mastitis Test (CMT) and milk somatic cell counts (SCC). This was followed by detailed milk composition analysis, differential leukocyte counts (DLC), and microbiological culture. Results: The differential gene expression of milk SCs through transcriptome profiling identified 83 and 76, up-regulated and 157 and 192 down-regulated genes in CM vs H and SCM vs H groups (log2 fold change >=1 and <=-1, p < 0.05) respectively. Pathway analysis revealed that upregulated genes were enriched in pathways such as phagosome activity, IL-17 signalling, Th1 and Th2 cell differentiation, while downregulated genes were linked to RIG-I-like receptor signalling, NK cell cytotoxicity, and Toll-like receptor signalling and Cytokine-cytokine receptor interactions. Notably, the study underscores the roles of chemokines CCL8, CCL2, and CXCL10 in immune cell recruitment during mastitis, where their downregulation suggests impaired mammary immune defense that governs Chemokine signalling pathways. Further, the comparative analysis with the previously available milk SCs proteome data identified the downregulation of chemokines signalling pathways during mastitis. Discussion: Overall, this research enhances our understanding of mastitis pathogenesis and emphasizes that these targeted chemokines may boost mammary resilience through immunomodulation, genetic selection and genome editing or by utilising adjuvants in vaccine development that restore chemokine signalling offers a potential strategy to improve mastitis resistance in dairy cattle.
PXD028966	40196396	Identification and characterization of yeast SNF1 kinase homologs in Leishmania major. 	Leishmania snf1 kinase knock out	Leishmania snf1 knockout proteome	Background: Sucrose Non Fermenting1 (SNF1) constitutes a family of protein kinases conserved in eukaryotes, plants, and fungi. SNF1 has been known to play a crucial role in stress adaptation and metabolism, enabling organisms to respond to changing environmental conditions. Initially identified in yeast, SNF1 is essential for shifting from the primary carbon source, glucose, to secondary carbon sources like sucrose. Homologs of this protein family were identified in Leishmania major, a protozoan parasite and we aimed to determine their role in this parasite. Methods: In the present study, we identified the putative homologs of SNF1 kinase in L. major and knock out strains were prepared using the CRISPR-Cas9 knock-out strategy. The developed strains were evaluated for their growth, characteristics, protein expression and ultra structural changes in vitro and virulence in a mouse model. Results: One of the strain named N2, was found to be completely avirulent and showed limited growth, lack of glycosomes and had a fewer mitochondria with deformed cristae. The N2 strain failed to produce infection in mice when compared to WT mice. Proteome analysis revealed an increase in ribosomal proteins in the N2 strain, highlighting the role of ribosomes in stress adaptation. Conclusion: The essentiality of this gene for developing infections in mice underscores its potential in the development of future antileishmanial therapies and live attenuated strains.
PXD062112	40196624	Alternative start codon selection shapes mitochondrial function during evolution, homeostasis, and disease. 	Alternative start codon selection shapes mitochondrial function during evolution, homeostasis, and disease	AURKAIP1, MRPS38, mitochondria, ribosomes	Mitochondrial endosymbiosis was a pivotal event in eukaryotic evolution, requiring core proteins to adapt to function both within the mitochondria and in the host cell. Here, we systematically profile the localization of protein isoforms generated by alternate start codon selection during translation. We identify hundreds of pairs of differentially-localized protein isoforms, many of which affect mitochondrial targeting and are essential for mitochondrial function. The emergence of dual-localized mitochondrial protein isoforms coincides with mitochondrial acquisition during early eukaryotic evolution. We further reveal that eukaryotes use diverse mechanisms-such as leaky ribosome scanning, alternative transcription, and paralog duplication-to maintain the production of dual-localized isoforms. Finally, we identify multiple isoforms that are specifically dysregulated by rare disease patient mutations and demonstrate how these mutations can help explain unique clinical presentations. Together, our findings illuminate the evolutionary and pathological relevance of alternative translation initiation, offering new insights into the molecular underpinnings of mitochondrial biology.
PXD054453	40197665	Multi-Omic Evaluation of PLK1 Inhibitor-Onvansertib-In Colorectal Cancer Spheroids. 	Multi-omic Evaluation of PLK1 InhibitorOnvansertibin Colorectal Cancer Spheroids	Cell Cycle, Colorectal Cancer, Lipidomics, Mass Spectrometry Imaging, Plk-1 inhibition, Spatial Lipidomics, Spheroids	Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1) is a serine/threonine kinase involved in regulating the cell cycle. It is activated by aurora kinase B along with the cofactors Borealin, INCE, and survivin. Plk1 is involved in the development of resistances to chemotherapeutics such as doxorubicin, Taxol, and gemcitabine. It has been shown that patients with higher levels of Plk1 have lower survival rates. Onvansertib is a competitive ATP inhibitor for Plk1 in clinical trials for the treatment of tumors and has recently entered a trial for the treatment of KRAS mutant colorectal cancers (CRCs). In this study, we conducted an untargeted liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) proteomics study as well as an untargeted lipidomics analysis of HCT 116 spheroids treated with onvansertib over a 72-h treatment time-course experiment. Mass spectrometry imaging (MSI) showed that onvansertib begins to accumulate most prominently after 12 h of treatment and continues to accumulate through 72 h. Proteomic results displayed alterations to cell cycle control proteins and an increasing abundance of aurora kinase B and Borealin. The proteomics data also showed alterations to many lipid metabolism enzymes. The MSI lipidomics data indicated alterations to phosphatidylcholine lipids, with many lipids increasing in abundance over time or increasing until 12 h of onvansertib treatment and decreasing after that time point. In summary, these results suggest that onvansertib is causing cells within the spheroid to halt at a certain phase of the cell cycle in accordance with previous literature. Our findings suggest the S phase is likely interrupted, with observed alterations in cell cycle control proteins and PC lipid abundance.
PXD060599	40197797	RNF187 Facilitates Proliferation and Migration of Human Spermatogonial Stem Cells Through WDR77 Polyubiquitination. 	Identification of RNF187 binding proteins by LC-MS/MS	RNF187, human SSCs, immunocoprecipitation	The E3 ubiquitin ligase RNF187, also known as RING domain AP1 coactivator-1, is a member of the RING finger family. RNF187 is indispensable for the proliferation and migration of GC-1 cells derived from mouse spermatogonia and GC-2 cells derived from spermatocytes. However, it remains unclear whether RNF187 plays a crucial role in the self-renewal and migration of human spermatogonial stem cells (SSCs). In this study, we observed a positive correlation between RNF187 expression and the proliferation and migration of human SSCs. Through co-immunoprecipitation and mass spectrometry analyses, we identified WD repeat-containing protein 77 (WDR77) as an interacting partner of RNF187. Specifically, RNF187 recognises the K118 site of WDR77 through lysine 48-linked polyubiquitination, subsequently mediating its degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). Further studies have revealed that decreased expression of WDR77 diminishes the symmetric dimethylation at H4R3 (H4R3me2s) catalysed by its interacting protein, the arginine methyltransferase PRMT5. This, in turn, relieves the transcriptional repression of early growth response protein 1 (EGR1), a positive regulator for human SSC maintenance. In conclusion, this study has unveiled a pivotal role for RNF187 in the proliferation and migration of human SSCs. This may provide a promising strategy for addressing non-obstructive azoospermia (NOA) caused by SSC dysfunction.
PXD050667	40198127	Alternative splicing of uromodulin enhances mitochondrial metabolism for adaptation to stress in kidney epithelial cells. 	Affinity Purification Mass Spectrometry of protein protein interactors with alternatively-spliced Uromodulin	MDCK, protein protein interactions, uromodulin	In the kidney, cells of thick ascending limb of the loop of Henle (TAL) are resistant to ischemic injury, despite high energy demands. This adaptive metabolic response is not fully understood even though the integrity of TAL cells is essential for recovery from acute kidney injury (AKI). TAL cells uniquely express uromodulin, the most abundant protein secreted in healthy urine. Here, we demonstrate that alternative splicing generates a conserved intracellular isoform of uromodulin, which contributes to metabolic adaptation of TAL cells. This splice variant was induced by oxidative stress and was up-regulated by AKI that is associated with recovery, but not by severe AKI and chronic kidney disease (CKD). This intracellular variant was targeted to the mitochondria, increased NAD+ and ATP levels, and protected TAL cells from hypoxic injury. Augmentation of this variant using antisense oligonucleotides after severe AKI improved the course of injury. These findings underscore an important role of condition-specific alternative splicing in adaptive energy metabolism to hypoxic stress. Enhancing this protective splice variant in TAL cells could become a novel therapeutic intervention for AKI.
PXD047838	40198138	Complement pathway activation mediates pancreatic cancer-induced muscle wasting and pathological remodeling. 	Skeletal Muscle Proteome of Cachectic Pancreatic Cancer Patients	Orbitrap Fusion Lumos, PDAC, Skeletal muscle, cachexia, pancreatic cancer, rectus abdominis	Cancer cachexia is a multifactorial condition characterized by skeletal muscle wasting that impairs quality of life and longevity for many cancer patients. A greater understanding of the molecular etiology of this condition is needed for effective therapies to be developed. We performed a quantitative proteomic analysis of skeletal muscle from cachectic pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) patients and non-cancer controls, followed by immunohistochemical analyses of muscle cross-sections. These data provide evidence of a local inflammatory response in muscles of cachectic PDAC patients, including an accumulation of plasma proteins and recruitment of immune cells into muscle that may promote the pathological remodeling of muscle. Our data further support the complement system as a potential mediator of these processes, which we tested by injecting murine pancreatic cancer cells into wild type (WT) mice, or mice with genetic deletion of the central complement component 3 (C3-/- mice). Compared to WT mice, C3-/- mice showed attenuated tumor-induced muscle wasting and dysfunction and reduced immune cell recruitment and fibrotic remodeling of muscle. These studies demonstrate that complement activation is contributory to the skeletal muscle pathology and dysfunction in PDAC, suggesting that the complement system may possess therapeutic potential in preserving skeletal muscle mass and function.
PXD040105	40198797	CXCR4 Blockade Alleviates Pulmonary and Cardiac Outcomes in Early COPD. 	Proteomic analysis of lungs in early experimental model of Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)	CXCR4, Lungs, chronic obstructive disease, cigarette smoke, plerixafor, quantitative proteome	Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a prevalent respiratory disease lacking effective treatment. Focusing on early COPD should help to discover disease modifying therapies. We examined the role of the CXCL12/CXCR4 axis in early COPD using human samples and murine models. Blood samples and lung tissues from both individuals with early COPD and controls were analyzed for CXCL12 and CXCR4 levels. To generate an early-like COPD model, 10-week-old male C57BL/6J mice were exposed to cigarette smoke (CS) for 10 weeks and intranasal instillations of polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (poly(I:C)) for the last five weeks to mimic exacerbations. The number of cells expressing CXCR4 was increased in the blood of individuals with COPD, as well as in the blood of exposed mice. Lung CXCL12 expression was higher in both early COPD patients and exposed mice. Exposed mice presented mild airflow obstruction, peri-bronchial fibrosis, and right heart thickening. The density of fibrocyte-like cells expressing CXCR4 increased in the bronchial submucosa of these mice. Conditional inactivation of CXCR4 as well as pharmacological inhibition of CXCR4 with plerixafor injections improved lung function, reduced inflammation, and protected against CS and poly-(I:C)-induced airway and cardiac remodeling. CXCR4(-/-) and plerixafor-treated mice also had fewer CXCR4-expressing circulating cells and a lower density of peri-bronchial fibrocyte-like cells. We demonstrate that targeting CXCR4 has beneficial effects in an animal model mimicking early COPD. While these preclinical findings are encouraging, further research is needed to explore the potential for transferring these insights into clinical applications, including drug repurposing.
PXD059431	40199326	Identification of a molecular resistor that controls UCP1-independent Ca(2+) cycling thermogenesis in adipose tissue. 	Thermogenic role of C4orf3/ALN in adipose tissue	Adipose, Microsomes, Thermogenesis	Adipose tissue thermogenesis contributes to energy balance via mitochondrial uncoupling protein 1 (UCP1) and UCP1-independent pathways. Among UCP1-independent thermogenic mechanisms, one involves Ca(2+) cycling via SERCA2b in adipose tissue; however, the underlying molecular basis remains elusive. Here, we report that an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane-anchored peptide, C4orf3 (also known as another regulin [ALN]), uncouples SERCA2b Ca(2+) transport from its ATP hydrolysis, rendering the SERCA2b-C4orf3 complex exothermic. Loss of C4orf3/ALN improved the energetic efficiency of SERCA2b-dependent Ca(2+) transport without affecting SERCA2 expression, thereby reducing adipose tissue thermogenesis and increasing the adiposity of mice. Notably, genetic depletion of C4orf3 resulted in compensatory activation of UCP1-dependent thermogenesis following cold challenge. We demonstrated that genetic loss of both C4orf3 and Ucp1 additively impaired cold tolerance in vivo. Together, this study identifies C4orf3 as the molecular resistor to SERCA2b-mediated Ca(2+) import that plays a key role in UCP1-independent thermogenesis and energy balance.
PXD061136	40199910	GPAT4 sustains endoplasmic reticulum homeostasis in endocardial cells and safeguards heart development. 	Identification of proteins  interacting with GPAT4 in HUVECs cell line.	ER stress, GPAT4, HUVECs	The endocardium plays a pivotal role in governing myocardial development, and understanding the intrinsic regulatory insights will help apprehend pathological cardiomyopathy. Glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 4 (GPAT4) is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane anchored protein. While the role of GPAT4 in glycerophospholipid biosynthesis is well established, its function in the ER is less explored. Here, we generate Gpat4 global and tissue-specific knockout mice and identify the essential role of GPAT4 in endocardial development. Deficiency of GPAT4 provokes endocardial ER stress response and enhances ER-mitochondrial (ER-mito) communications, leading to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) escape. As a result, the cGAS-STING pathway is triggered to stimulate type-I-interferon response, which affects heart development. Finally, abolishment of the cGAS-STING-type-I-interferon pathway rescues the heart defects of Gpat4 deletion mice. These findings uncover the pivotal role of GPAT4 in the maintenance of ER homeostasis during endocardial and heart development. Meanwhile, this study highlights the importance of the cGAS-STING pathway in cardiac organogenesis.
PXD059594	40200091	Sphingosine kinase 2 deficiency impairs VLDL secretion by inhibiting mTORC2 phosphorylation and activating chaperone-mediated autophagy. 	Sphingosine kinase 2 deficiency impairs VLDL secretion by inhibiting mTORC2 phosphorylation and activating chaperone-mediated autophagy	CMA, Sphk2, VLDL, mTORC2	Hepatic very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) is essential for maintaining lipid metabolism in the liver. Sphingosine kinases (SphKs) are essential rate-limiting enzymes that catalyze sphingosine phosphorylation to Sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P). SphKs exist as two isoforms, SphK1 and SphK2, both highly expressed in the liver. SphK1 plays a critical role in regulating hepatic inflammation and drug metabolism. This study aimed to determine whether SphK2 regulates hepatic lipid metabolism, particularly VLDL secretion. Immunohistochemical staining revealed decreased SphK2 protein levels within regions proximal to hepatic lipid accumulation in individuals diagnosed with metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). Sphk2(-/-) mice exhibited spontaneous hepatocyte lipid accumulation and reduced VLDL secretion. Proteomic analysis revealed that SphK2 deficiency impaired soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion attachment protein receptor (SNARE) complex interactions involved in vesicular transport and organelle membrane fusion. Furthermore, SphK2 deficiency results in accelerated degradation of the SEC22B, STX5A, and GS28 proteins via chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA), impeding VLDL transport to the Golgi apparatus. MYH1485, a specific activator of mTOR, induces mTORC2 phosphorylation, thereby inhibiting the degradation of SNARE complexes by CMA and counteracting the lipid accumulation induced by SphK2 deficiency. Exogenous S1P supplementation markedly reversed the reduction in mTORC2 phosphorylation and suppressed CMA, thereby improving VLDL secretion. Our study elucidates an inventive regulatory mechanism by which SphK2 modulates CMA by activating mTORC2 phosphorylation, promoting VLDL secretion, and balancing lipid metabolism in the liver. These findings provide insights into SphK2 function and the underlying mechanisms involved in the regulation of VLDL secretion, which may facilitate MASLD treatment. Proposed model for the role of SphK2 in hepatic VLDL secretion. In hepatocytes, the inhibition of SphK2 activity decreased S1P production, which subsequently downregulates the mTORC2 pathway. This process accelerates the degradation of the SNARE complex components STX5A, GS28, and SEC22B via CMA, which regulates the mutual recognition between VTVs and the Golgi apparatus, ultimately reducing VLDL secretion in hepatocytes.
PXD053164	40200297	Identification of noval diagnostic biomarker for HFpEF based on proteomics and machine learning. 	Proteomic profiling in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction	HFpEF, Immune response, Inflammation	BACKGROUND: Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) is a complex syndrome that currently lacks effective biomarkers for early diagnosis and treatment. This study seeks to identify new potential biomarkers for HFpEF using proteomics and machine learning. METHODS: Plasma samples were collected from 20 patients newly diagnosed age, sex, BMI matched HFpEF and 20 healthy controls (HCs). Proteomic analysis was performed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) in data-independent acquisition mode. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified and analyzed through enrichment analyses and protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction. Machine learning methods, including LASSO regression and the Boruta algorithm were used to select candidate biomarkers. The diagnostic value of these proteins was assessed using receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves and nomogram construction. Expression of candidate proteins was analyzed in immune cells and tissues. Finally, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was used to validate the plasma levels of selected proteins. RESULTS: A total of 34 DEPs were identified between HFpEF patients and HCs. Enrichment analyses revealed involvement in acute-phase response and immune pathways. PPI network analysis identified nine hub proteins. Machine learning methods narrowed the candidates to four potential biomarkers: SERPINA1, AFM, SERPINA3, and ITIH4. Among these, SERPINA3 showed the highest diagnostic value with an area under the ROC curve (AUC) of 0.835. ELISA validation confirmed that plasma SERPINA3 levels were significantly elevated in HFpEF patients compared to HCs (p < 0.0001). CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that SERPINA3 could serve as a biomarker for HFpEF, Elevated plasma levels of SERPINA3 in HFpEF patients suggest its utility in early diagnosis and may provide insights into the disease's pathogenesis.
PXD053074	40200707	The Proprotein Convertase BLI-4 Is Required for Axenic Dietary Restriction Mediated Longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans. 	LC-MSMS in axenically cultured C. elegans	C. elegans, dieatry restriction	Dietary restriction (DR) is a well-established method for extending lifespan across various species, including C. elegans. Among the different DR regimens, axenic dietary restriction (ADR), in which worms are grown in a nutrient-rich sterile liquid medium, yields the most powerful lifespan extension. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this longevity phenotype remain largely unexplored. Through a pilot screen of candidate genes, we identified the proprotein convertase BLI-4 as a crucial factor in neurons for modulating lifespan under ADR conditions. BLI-4's role appears to be specific to ADR, as it does not significantly impact longevity under other DR regimens. We further explored the involvement of different bli-4 isoforms and found that isoforms b, f, i and j redundantly contribute to the ADR-mediated lifespan extension, while the bli-4d isoform is mainly involved in development. Proteomics analysis revealed that the loss of BLI-4 function under ADR conditions specifically downregulates GOLG-2, involved in Golgi complex organization. This gene also partially mediates the longevity effects of BLI-4 under ADR conditions. Our findings highlight the importance of neuronal BLI-4 and its downstream targets in regulating lifespan extension induced by ADR in C. elegans.
PXD053006	40201162	Chemoproteomic identification of phosphohistidine acceptors: posttranslational activity regulation of a key glycolytic enzyme. 	Chemoproteomic identification of a phosphohistidine acceptor: Insights into posttranslational regulation of glycolysis	Cell lysate, E.coli, Qexactive	Histidine phosphorylation, an unconventional and understudied posttranslational modification, often involves phosphohistidine (pHis) "acceptor" proteins, which bind to pHis residues and undergo phosphotransfer from pHis. While the roles of pHis acceptors are well-documented in bacterial cell signalling and metabolism, the presence and functions of additional pHis acceptors remain largely unknown. In this study, we introduce a chemoproteomic strategy leveraging a stable analogue of 3-pHis to identify 13 putative pHis acceptors in Escherichia coli. Among these, we identified phosphofructokinase-1 (PfkA), a central enzyme in glycolysis, as a pHis acceptor phosphorylated at His249 by phosphocarrier protein HPr (PtsH). This phosphorylation, modulated by carbon source availability, inhibited PfkA's kinase activity, while the pHis-specific phosphatase signal inhibitory factor X (SixA) reversed the effect, restoring the kinase function. Our findings reveal a novel regulatory mechanism in which histidine phosphorylation dynamically controls a key glycolytic enzyme, implicating a broader role for pHis in bacterial metabolism.
PXD055767	40201425	Food colorant brilliant blue causes persistent functional and structural changes in an in vitro simplified microbiota model system. 	Impact of Brilliant blue FCF on Human Gut Microbiota: Structural and Functional Alterations in a Simplified Model System	SIHUMIx, brilliant blue, food colorants, gut microbiota, metabolomics, metaproteomics	The human gut microbiota plays a vital role in maintaining host health by acting as a barrier against pathogens, supporting the immune system, and metabolizing complex carbon sources into beneficial compounds such as short-chain fatty acids. Brilliant blue E-133 (BB), is a common food dye that is not absorbed or metabolized by the body, leading to substantial exposure of the gut microbiota. Despite this, its effects on the microbiota are not well-documented. In this study, we cultivated the Simplified Human Microbiota Model (SIHUMIx) in a three-stage in vitro approach (stabilization, exposure, and recovery). Using metaproteomic and metabolomic approaches, we observed significant shifts in microbial composition, including an increase in the relative abundance of Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron and a decrease in beneficial species such as Bifidobacterium longum and Clostridium butyricum. We observed lower protein abundance in energy metabolism, metabolic end products, and particularly lactate and butyrate. Disturbance in key metabolic pathways related to energy production, stress response, and amino acid metabolism were also observed, with some pathways affected independently of bacterial abundance. These functional changes persisted during the recovery phase, indicating that the microbiota did not fully return to its pre-exposure state. Our findings suggest that BB has a lasting impact on gut microbiota structure and function, raising concerns about its widespread use in the food industry. This study underscores the need for further research into the long-term effects of food colorants on the gut microbiota and their potential health implications.
PXD059584	40202868	Novel in vivo models of autosomal optic atrophy reveal conserved pathological changes in neuronal mitochondrial structure and function. 	Novel in vivo models of autosomal optic atrophy show conserved pathological changes in mitochondrial structure and function ZEBRAFISH DATASET	Drosophila, Mitochondria, Optic Atrophy, Visual Impairment.  Project description:, Zebrafish	Autosomal optic atrophy (AOA) is a form of hereditary optic neuropathy characterized by the irreversible and progressive degermation of the retinal ganglion cells. Most cases of AOA are associated with a single dominant mutation in OPA1, which encodes a protein required for fusion of the inner mitochondrial membrane. It is unclear how loss of OPA1 leads to neuronal death, and despite ubiquitous expression appears to disproportionately affect the RGCs. This study introduces two novel in vivo models of OPA1-mediated AOA, including the first developmentally viable vertebrate Opa1 knockout (KO). These models allow for the study of Opa1 loss in neurons, specifically RGCs. Though survival is significantly reduced in Opa1 deficient zebrafish and Drosophila, both models permit the study of viable larvae. Moreover, zebrafish Opa1 KO larvae show impaired visual function but unchanged locomotor function, indicating that retinal neurons are particularly sensitive to Opa1 loss. Proteomic profiling of both models reveals marked disruption in protein expression associated with mitochondrial function, consistent with an observed decrease in mitochondrial respiratory function. Similarly, mitochondrial fragmentation and disordered cristae organization were observed in neuronal axons in both models highlighting Opa1's highly conserved role in regulating mitochondrial morphology and function in neuronal axons. Importantly, in Opa1 deficient zebrafish, mitochondrial disruption and visual impairment precede degeneration of RGCs. These novel models mimic key features of AOA and provide valuable tools for therapeutic screening. Our findings suggest that therapies enhancing mitochondrial function may offer a potential treatment strategy for AOA.
PXD061303	40202903	In Vitro Psilocybin Synthesis by Co-Immobilized Enzymes. 	In Vitro Psilocybin Synthesis by Co-Immobilized Enzymes	LC-MS, Psilocybin, biosynthesis, in vitro synthesis, mushrooms	Advanced clinical trials investigate the Psilocybe magic mushroom natural product psilocybin as a treatment against major depressive disorder. Currently, synthetic material is used to meet the demand for legitimate pharmaceutical purposes. Here, we report an in vitro approach to biocatalytically produce psilocybin on a solid-phase matrix charged with five covalently bound biosynthetic enzymes. These enzymes include three Psilocybe enzymes: IasA*, an engineered l-tryptophan decarboxylase/aromatic aldehyde synthase, the 4-hydroxytryptamine kinase PsiK and the norbaeocystin methyltransferase PsiM, along with Escherichia coli nucleosidase MtnN and adenine deaminase Ade. In a proof-of-principle experiment, this enzyme-charged resin allowed for quantitative turnover of 4-hydroxy-l-tryptophan into psilocybin. This facile process i) represents a sustainable approach with reusable enzymes, ii) circumvents the drawbacks of in vivo processes while harnessing the selectivity of enzymatic catalysis and iii) helps access an urgently needed drug candidate.
PXD060297	40203231	Patient anti-FVIII drug antibodies bind preferentially to a subset of FVIII covalent states. 	Patient anti-FVIII drug antibodies bind preferentially to a subset of FVIII covalent states	FVIII, Plasma, mass spec	Haemophilia A is a chronic life-threatening condition caused by deficiency or dysfunction of plasma coagulation factor VIII (FVIII) and commonly managed by prophylaxis with regular infusion of FVIII protein. A major obstacle to FVIII replacement therapy is the generation of alloantibodies that diminish efficacy. Disulfide bonds link pairs of cysteine residues in proteins and in several proteins have been found to be only partially formed in the mature proteins. FVIII contains 8 disulfide bonds and their redox state in human blood and recombinant FVIII was determined using differential cysteine alkylation and mass spectrometry. All 8 disulfide bonds were found to be unformed in ~10% to ~70% of molecules of FVIII populations, which suggested a conformational flexibility that could favour binding of certain ligands to subsets of FVIII with more or less formed disulfide bonds. To test this hypothesis, the binding of a panel of five patient-derived anti-FVIII antibodies to the population of FVIII disulfide-bonded states was evaluated. All five antibodies bound preferentially to FVIII states where 2 or 3 of the 8 disulfides are significantly more unformed; C1918-C1922 in the A3 domain, C2040-C2188 in the C1 domain and C2193-C2345 in the C2 domain. Disulfide bond mutagenesis experiments and molecular dynamics simulations indicate that this subset of FVIII states have long-range conformational dynamism that favours anti-drug antibody binding. These findings will assist efforts to engineer a FVIII molecule that is less prone to neutralization by anti-drug antibodies and has general implications for autoimmune conditions and antibody drug efficacy.
PXD057612	40204274	Serum Disease-specific IgG Fc Glycosylation as Potential Biomarkers for Nonproliferative and Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy Using Mass Spectrometry. 	Serum Disease-specific IgG Fc Glycosylation as Potential Biomarkers for Nonproliferative and Proliferative Diabetic Retinopathy Using Mass Spectrometry	IgG N-glycosylation, biomarkers., diabetic retinopathy	PURPOSE: To investigate the potential of serum disease-specific immunoglobulin G (DSIgG) crystallizable fragment (Fc) N-glycosylation as a diagnostic biomarker for the identification of nonproliferative and proliferative diabetic retinopathy (DR). METHODS: A total of 160 patients were enrolled and categorized into three groups according to clinical diagnosis: non-diabetic retinopathy (NDR, n=47); nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR, n=51); and proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR, n=62). Gel electrophoresis was performed to separate IgG from morning fasting blood samples and polyaniline magnetic nanomaterials (Fe3O4@PANI) were used to enrich IgG N-glycopeptides from tryptic digestion. Matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI ToF MS) was used to detect the IgG N-glycopeptides. RESULTS: Nine DSIgG N-glycopeptide ratios were significantly different among NDR, NPDR, and PDR groups. There are six glycopeptide ratios available to classify mild, moderate, and severe NPDR. Moreover, four glycopeptide ratios could identify patients with or without diabetic macular edema (DME). The prediction model exhibited good discriminatory performance in distinguishing patients with DR or NDR (AUC=0.8347), NPDR or PDR (AUC=0.7002), mild/moderate or severe NPDR (AUC=0.8059), and with or without DME (AUC=0.7846). CONCLUSION: DSIgG Fc N-glycosylation ratios were closely associated with different stages of DR and may be used as potential biomarkers for the early diagnosis of NDR, NPDR, and PDR.
PXD052223	40204275	Omics analyses uncover host networks defining virus-permissive and -hostile cellular states. 	Multi-level proteomics profiling of virus-restrictive and -permissive cellular environments reveal novel regulators of virus infection	HEK293 cell line, HEK293T cell line, SILAC, innate immunity, phosphoproteomics	The capacity of host cells to sustain or restrict virus infection is influenced by their proteome. Understanding the compendium of proteins defining cellular permissiveness is key to many questions in fundamental virology. Here, we apply a multiomic approach to determine the proteins that are associated with highly permissive, intermediate, and hostile cellular states. We observed two groups of differentially regulated genes: i) with robust changes in mRNA and protein levels, and ii) with protein/RNA discordances. Whereas many of the latter are classified as interferon stimulated genes (ISGs), most exhibit no antiviral effects in overexpression screens. This suggest that IFN-dependent protein changes can be better indicators of antiviral function than mRNA levels. Phosphoproteomics revealed an additional regulatory layer involving non-signalling proteins with altered phosphorylation. Indeed, we confirmed that several permissiveness-associated proteins with changes in abundance or phosphorylation regulate infection fitness. Altogether, our study provides a comprehensive and systematic map of the cellular alterations driving virus susceptibility.
PXD057937	40204872	The proteome of osteoblasts in a 3D culture perfusion bioreactor model compared with static conditions. 	The proteome of osteoblasts in a 3D culture bioreactor model with static and perfusion conditions using biomimicry	and regenerative medicine, bioreactor, bone, human fetal osteoblastic cells, tissue engineering	Bone disorders represent a significant global burden. Currently, animal models are used to develop and screen novel treatments. However, interspecies variations and ethical concerns highlight the need for a more complex 3D bone model. In this study, we developed a simplified in vitro bone-like model using a U-CUP perfusion-based bioreactor system, designed to provide continuous nutrient flow and mechanostimulation through 3D cultures. An immortalized human fetal osteoblastic cell line was seeded on collagen scaffolds and cultured for 21 days in both a perfusion bioreactor system and in static cultures. PrestoBlue(TM) assay, scanning electron microscopy, and proteomics allowed monitoring of metabolic activity and compared morphological and proteome differences between both conditions. Results indicated an altered cellular morphology in the bioreactor compared to the static cultures and identified a total of 3494 proteins. Of these, 105 proteins exhibited significant upregulation in the static culture, while 86 proteins displayed significant downregulation. Enrichment analyses of these proteins revealed ten significant pathways including epithelial-mesenchymal transition, TNF-alpha signaling via NF-kB, and KRAS pathway. The current data indicated of osteogenic differentiation enhancement within the bioreactor on day 21 compared to static cultures. In conclusion, the U-CUP perfusion bioreactor is beneficial for facilitating osteogenic differentiation in 3D cultures.
PXD058482	40204883	The crucial role of neutrophil extracellular traps and IL-17 signaling in indomethacin-induced gastric injury in mice. 	Gastric ulcer mice gastric tissue	Gastric ulcer, gastric tissue, mice	The homeostasis of gastric mucosa is extremely delicate. Neutrophils, the most abundant immune cells in human circulation, are regarded crutial in the regulation of gastric mucosal immune response. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) induced gastric injury is the second major reason for gastric ulcers. The relations between neutrophils and Indomethacin-induced gastric injury are not fully understood. A mouse model of gastric injury was established using Indomethacin, followed by proteomic analysis (raw data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD058482). GO functional annotations and KEGG pathway enrichment analysis were conducted on significant differential proteins. The formation of neutrophil extracellular traps (NETs) was observed using ELISA and immunofluorescence. TEM, Western blot and Real-time PCR were applied to observe programmed death of gastric epithelial cells (GECs), and ELISA was conducted to measure levels of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta in the gastric tissue. Deoxyribonuclease 1 (DNase 1), a NETs inhibitor, was administered intraperitoneally to inhibit NETs formation. In vitro, neutrophils were isolated from peripheral blood of mice and co-cultured with mouse GECs cell line, different dosage of Indomethacin were added to the culture dish, the levels of inflammatory factors, formation of NETs and GECs programmed death were assessed in vitro. Poly morphonuclear neutrophils (PMN) were extracted from mouse peripheral blood and single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq) was further applied (raw data are available via Genome Sequence Archive with identifier CRA020950) to explore the intracellular mechanism of NETs formation. ELISA and immunofluorescence were performed to validate expression of IL-17 signaling pathway. After Indomethacin gavage, obvious gastric injury was observed. Proteomic analysis indicated that NETs formation played a crucial role in Indomethacin-induced gastric injury. Compared to control group, Indomethacin treatment resulted in NETs formation, elevated levels of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta and GECs programmed death. Inhibition of NETs significantly reduced inflammatory factor levels and mitigated gastric injury caused by indomethacin. In vitro, 200 microL, 400 microL and 600 microL of Indomethacin caused excessive NETs formation in neutrophils. Besides, Indomethacin-induced NETs formation led to GECs programmed death in vitro. scRNA-seq revealed that neutrophils enrichment in the peripheral blood of Indomethacin-induced gastric injury and IL-17 signaling might be the key intracellular of NETs formation. Expressions of neutrophil IL-17R and concentration of IL-17 were significantly higher in model group. NETs formation is pivotal in Indomethacin-induced gastric injury, contributing to programmed cell death of GECs and inflammation; IL-17 signaling might be the key intracellular mechanism of NETs formation.
PXD052386	40205123	Rhodosporidium toruloides-a new surrogate model to study rapamycin induced effects on human aging and cancer. 	Rhodosporidium toruloides haplotypes IFO0559 and IFO0880 rapamycin treatment	Rhodosporidium, rapamycin	The haploid, olegenious yeast Rhodosporidium toruloides accumulates intracellular lipids and carotenoids upon metabolic stress. Target of Rapamycin (TOR) signaling, essential for cell proliferation, is known to affect cellular lipid accumulation. In contrast to the conventional surrugate cell model S. cerevisiae, which harbours two TOR kinases within its TOR complex, R. toruloides only harbours one TOR kinase, mimicking mammalian systems. We used a proteomics centered approach to probe the cellular response, of the two R. toruloides haplotypes, IFO0559 and IFO0880 upon treatment with the TOR inhibitor rapamycin, with an original focus on difference in carotenoid and lipid accumulation. Unexpectedly, IFO0880 displayed severe growth arrest in response to rapamycin, while IFO0559 did not. Proteomic anaysis revealed differential expression of several proteins involved in cell cycle control, lipogensis, amino acid metabolism and autophagy between the two haplotypes. Among those we identified several proteins previously described in both mammalian oncogenic and aging contexts. This differential haplotype response to rapamycin treatment positions R. toruloides as a promising cell surrugate model to study cellular mechanisms underlying rapamycin response especially for systems with high lipid contents, an emerging hallmark of different forms of mammalian cancer and age related disease.
PXD043154	40205804	Comprehensive Proteomics and Machine Learning Analysis to Distinguish Follicular Adenoma and Follicular Thyroid Carcinoma from Indeterminate Thyroid Nodules. 	Comprehensive proteomics analysis to distinguish follicular adenoma and follicular thyroid carcinoma from indeterminate thyroid nodules.Comprehensive proteomics analysis to distinguish follicular adenoma and follicular thyroid carcinoma from indeterminate	FFPE, Thyroid tumor, follicular adenoma, follicular thyroid carcinoma	Background: The preoperative diagnosis of follicular thyroid carcinoma (FTC) is challenging because it cannot be readily distinguished from follicular adenoma (FA) or benign follicular nodular disease (FND) using the sonographic and cytological features typically employed in clinical practice. Methods: We employed comprehensive proteomics and machine learning (ML) models to identify novel diagnostic biomarkers capable of classifying three subtypes: FTC, FA, and FND. Bottom-up proteomics techniques were applied to quantify proteins in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) thyroid tissues. In total, 202 FFPE tissue samples, comprising 62 FNDs, 72 FAs, and 68 FTCs, were analyzed. Results: Close spectrum-spectrum matching quantified 6,332 proteins, with approximately 9% (780 proteins) differentially expressed among the groups. When applying an ML model to the proteomics data from samples with preoperative indeterminate cytopathology (n=183), we identified distinct protein panels: five proteins (CNDP2, DNAAF5, DYNC1H1, FARSB, and PDCD4) for the FND prediction model, six proteins (DNAAF5, FAM149B1, RPS9, TAGLN2, UPF1, and UQCRC1) for the FA model, and seven proteins (ACTN4, DSTN, MACROH2A1, NUCB1, SPTAN1, TAGLN, and XRCC5) for the FTC model. The classifiers' performance, evaluated by the median area under the curve values of the random forest models, was 0.832 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.824 to 0.839) for FND, 0.826 (95% CI, 0.817 to 0.835) for FA, and 0.870 (95% CI, 0.863 to 0.877) for FTC. Conclusion: Quantitative proteome analysis combined with an ML model yielded an optimized multi-protein panel that can distinguish FTC from benign subtypes. Our findings indicate that a proteomic approach holds promise for the differential diagnosis of FTC.
PXD054533	40207927	Proteomic Analysis of 442 Clinical Plasma Samples From Individuals With Symptom Records Revealed Subtypes of Convalescent Patients Who Had COVID-19. 	Proteomic analysis of 442 clinical plasma samples from healthy donors and COVID-19 covalescent patients	COVID-19, convalescent patients, plasma, subtype	After the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, the postacute effects of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) infection have gradually attracted attention. To precisely evaluate the health status of convalescent patients with COVID-19, we analyzed symptom and proteome data of 442 plasma samples from healthy controls, hospitalized patients, and convalescent patients 6 or 12 months after SARS-CoV-2 infection. Symptoms analysis revealed distinct relationships in convalescent patients. Results of plasma protein expression levels showed that C1QA, C1QB, C2, CFH, CFHR1, and F10, which regulate the complement system and coagulation, remained highly expressed even at the 12-month follow-up compared with their levels in healthy individuals. By combining symptom and proteome data, 442 plasma samples were categorized into three subtypes: S1 (metabolism-healthy), S2 (COVID-19 retention), and S3 (long COVID). We speculated that convalescent patients reporting hair loss could have a better health status than those experiencing headaches and dyspnea. Compared to other convalescent patients, those reporting sleep disorders, appetite decrease, and muscle weakness may need more attention because they were classified into the S2 subtype, which had the most samples from hospitalized patients with COVID-19. Subtyping convalescent patients with COVID-19 may enable personalized treatments tailored to individual needs. This study provides valuable plasma proteomic datasets for further studies associated with long COVID.
PXD057126	40208692	Insulin-Like Growth Factor-Binding Protein 7 and Cadmium-Induced Hepatorenal Fibrosis. 	Proteins that bind to IGFBP7 in cadmium-induced hepatorenal fibrosis	IGFBP7, kidney, liver	BACKGROUND: Chronic cadmium exposure can induce the onset and progression of hepatorenal fibrosis; however, its molecular basis is unclear. Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 7 (IGFBP7) is not only a biomarker of acute kidney injury (AKI), but also plays a functional role in promoting kidney injury and inflammation. Abnormal repair of AKI causes kidney fibrosis and chronic kidney disease. IGFBP7 has also been reported as a more sensitive biomarker for liver fibrosis. However, its role in hepatorenal fibrosis requires further investigation. METHODS: IGFBP7 global and conditional knockout mice were used to determine the role of IGFBP7 in cadmium-induced hepatorenal fibrosis. Then, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, truncated mutants, co-immunoprecipitation, and microscale thermophoresis were employed to unravel the downstream mechanisms. RESULTS: IGFBP7 expression was significantly elevated in kidney and liver tissues of mice subjected to chronic cadmium exposure. IGFBP7 deficiency attenuated cadmium-induced hepatorenal dysfunction and fibrosis, whereas restoration of IGFBP7 expression in IGFBP7-deficient mice reproduced hepatorenal fibrosis. Mechanistically, IGFBP7 interacted with alpha-enolase (ENO1) and inhibited its ubiquitination and degradation. Upregulated ENO1 further promoted glucose metabolic reprogramming and lactate accumulation. Conversely, lactate accumulation enhanced IGFBP7 transcription and expression through histone H3K18 lactylation. Importantly, therapy targeting IGFBP7 significantly ameliorated cadmium-induced hepatorenal fibrosis. CONCLUSIONS: IGFBP7 promoted cadmium-induced hepatorenal fibrosis by enhancing ENO1-driven abnormal glycolysis and lactate accumulation.
PXD063980	40208701	Strategies for Acid and Amine Cross-linking and Labeling for Protein Structural Characterization Using Mass Spectrometry. 	Strategies for Acid and Amine Cross-linking and Labeling for Protein Structural Characterization Using Mass Spectrometry	Cross-linking, covalent labeling	Cross-linking and covalent labeling are common tools for protein structural elucidation by mass spectrometry. However, despite the importance of electrostatic interactions in proteins, there are not many tools for probing both acids and amines. Therefore, we introduce novel solution-phase amine-to-acid cross-linkers and single reagent amine and acid covalent labels utilizing carbodiimide chemistry. Cross-linking and labeling sites were determined using top-down and enzymatic digestion approaches. Ubiquitin was chosen as a model protein for isotopically labeled (13)C-(15)N-glycine cross-linking/covalent labeling and glycyl-l-proline cross-linking/covalent labeling with top-down mass spectrometry as a proof of concept. Alpha synuclein, an intrinsically disordered protein that plays a role in multiple neurological disorders, was also cross-linked/covalent labeled with these methods/reagents. We expect that these structural characterization techniques will play a role in gaining insight into functionally and pathologically important structural tendencies of disordered proteins.
PXD060118	40208960	Cryptic infection of a giant virus in a unicellular green alga. 	Latent infection of an active giant endogenous virus in a unicellular green alga	Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, Giant Endogenous Viral Elements (GEVE)	Latency is a common strategy in a wide range of viral lineages, but its prevalence in giant viruses remains unknown. Here we describe a 617 kbp integrated giant viral element in the model green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. We resolve the integrated viral genome using long-read sequencing, identify a putative polinton-like integrase, and show that viral particles accumulate primarily during the stationary growth phase. A diverse array of viral-encoded selfish genetic elements is expressed during viral activity, including several Fanzor nuclease-encoding transposable elements. In addition, we show that field isolates of Chlamydomonas sp. harbor signatures of endogenous giant viruses related to the C. reinhardtii virus that exhibit similar infection dynamics, suggesting that giant virus latency is prevalent in natural host communities. Our work describes an unusually large temperate virus of a unicellular eukaryote, substantially expanding the scope of cryptic viral infections in the virosphere.
PXD056477	40209105	Dysregulated cortical excitability and tau phosphorylation in a beta3 integrin mouse model of autism. 	Downregulation of calcium-activated potassium channels drives cortical excitability dysfunction in a model of Itgb3-associated autism	PKA, SK2 channels, afterhyperpolarization, intrinsic excitability, layer V pyramidal neurons, medial prefrontal cortex, pyramidal tract neurons, spike frequency adaptation, tau, beta3 integrin	Autism spectrum disorder is a complex neurodevelopmental disease characterized by altered cortical network excitability. Recent genetic studies have identified deep layer V cortical pyramidal neurons in the frontal cortex as central to autism pathophysiology, yet the cortical circuits, plasticity mechanisms and molecular signalling pathways involved remain poorly understood. Layer V pyramidal neurons consist of two main types with distinct functional roles: intratelencephalic neurons, which respond to low-frequency stimulation and project within the cortex and striatum, and pyramidal tract neurons, which are tuned to theta-frequency inputs and convey information to subcortical structures. Determining which of these two neuron types is more critical to autism pathophysiology and whether disruptions in their synaptic connectivity or intrinsic excitability contribute to autism-related dysfunctions would significantly advance our understanding of the disorder. Integrins, a family of cell adhesion molecules, are vital for neuronal function. The gene encoding beta3 integrin (ITGB3) is genetically linked to autism spectrum disorder, with rare mutations identified in affected individuals, while Itgb3 knockout mice exhibit autism-like behaviours, including impaired social memory and increased grooming. However, it remains unclear why loss of beta3 integrin is associated with autism spectrum disorder, how it disrupts cortical circuits, and which plasticity mechanisms and molecular pathways are involved. Here, we demonstrate that beta3 integrin selectively regulates the excitability of pyramidal tract neurons in the medial prefrontal cortex. Using electrophysiology, proteomics and molecular approaches, we show that beta3 integrin regulates the gain, adaptation and precision of action potential discharge by controlling the surface expression of Ca2+-activated SK2 channels. Genetic ablation of Itgb3 impaired intrinsic excitability and SK2 channel function in pyramidal tract neurons, with no effects in intratelencephalic neurons. Furthermore, we identified Tau, a protein traditionally linked to neurodegenerative diseases, as part of the SK2 channel interactome. Proteomic analyses revealed altered protein kinase A-dependent phosphorylation of Tau in Itgb3 knockout mice, while protein kinase A inhibition restored SK2 channel currents, thereby connecting phosphorylation changes to excitability deficits. Our findings expand the current mechanistic framework linking signalling pathway dysfunctions to cortical excitability deficits, highlighting the dysregulation of pyramidal tract neuron excitability as a core feature of autism pathophysiology and demonstrating the involvement of beta3 integrin, SK2 channels, Tau and PKA in this process. Because pyramidal tract neurons serve as final integrators of cortical computations before relaying information outside the cortex, their impaired excitability may disrupt communication with subcortical targets, contributing to the complex pathophysiology of autism spectrum disorder.
PXD057783	40210089	Hematopoietic stem cell conditioned media induces apoptosis in colorectal cancer stem cells via dysregulation of HSP90 and 26S proteasome system. 	Hematopoietic stem cell conditioned media induces apoptosis in colorectal cancer stem cells via dysregulation of HSP90 and 26S proteasome system	26S proteasome, HSP, Hematopoietic stem cells, Tropism, autophagy, cancer stem cells, colorectal cancer, conditioned media	Cancer stem cells (CSCs) hold a significant role in cancer metastasis, high mortality and severity responsible for therapy resistance and tumour recurrence. The 26S proteasome system plays a major role in protein degradation in normal cells. As most cancers have upregulated 26S proteasome machinery, cancer cells use the 26S proteasome system in their favour for growth support by degrading unwanted proteins, but dysfunction of the 26S proteasome system induces apoptosis in cells. Here, we used hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) and HSCs-derived conditioned media (CM) to target colorectal cancer stem cells (CRC-CSCs). HSCs are otherwise used extensively to save the lives of patients suffering from hematological malignancies and inherited blood disorders. HSCs-derived conditioned media contains various cytokines, chemokines, and secretory small molecules, which can also target the CRC-CSCs. Moreover, HSCs have exhibited CRC-CSC tropism in vitro in our pilot studies. As therapeutic uses of HSCs for targeting colorectal cancer (CRC) have never been reported, we hypothesized the CRC-CSC targeting properties of HSCs. Our results indicated altered protein function of CRC-CSCs upon co-culture with HSCs. Proteomics approaches showed that HSCs-CM disrupted 26S proteasomal complex and altered the mitochondrial bioenergetics, thereby activating apoptosis in CRC-CSCs. Furthermore, we observed that HSCs-CM significantly induced double-stranded DNA damage and proteasomal degradation, leading to apoptosis and upregulating the autophagy system. This study, hence, provides the prospective targeting of cancer stem cells using HSCs-CM, indicating a possible therapeutic approach.
PXD057061	40210524	Are Bacterial Processes Dependent on Global Ribosome Pausing Affected by tRNA Modification Defects? 	Beyond RNA Modification: A Novel Role for tRNA modifying Enzyme in Oxidative Stress Response	RNA modification, Vibrio cholerae, oxidative stress	By integrating a literature review with transcriptomic, proteomic, and phenotypic data from two model bacteria, Escherichia coli and Vibrio cholerae, we put forward the hypothesis that defects in tRNA modification broadly impact processes that are evolutionarily tuned to be sensitive to translation speed. These include the translation of regulatory proteins associated with motility, iron homeostasis, and leader peptide-driven attenuation mechanisms. Some of these translation speed-dependent processes are influenced by the absence of a single modification, while others are affected by the absence of multiple modifications. Although further experiments are needed to clarify the mechanisms involved in each case, this work provides a foundational framework to guide future research.
PXD058777	40210837	Most L1CAM Is not Associated with Extracellular Vesicles in Human Biofluids and iPSC-Derived Neurons. 	Proteomic characterisation of CSF EVs	CSF, EVs	Transmembrane L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM) is widely used as a marker to enrich for neuron-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs), especially in plasma. However, this approach lacks sufficient robust validation. This study aimed to assess whether human biofluids are indeed enriched for EVs, particularly neuron-derived EVs, by L1CAM immunoaffinity, utilizing multiple sources (plasma, CSF, conditioned media from iPSC-derived neurons [iNCM]) and different methods (mass spectrometry [MS], nanoparticle tracking analysis [NTA]). Following a systematic multi-step validation approach, we confirmed isolation of generic EV populations using size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) and polymer-aided precipitation (PPT)-two most commonly applied EV isolation methods-from all sources. Neurofilament light (NfL) was detected in both CSF and blood-derived EVs, indicating their neuronal origin. However, L1CAM immunoprecipitation did not yield enrichment of L1CAM in EV fractions. Instead, it was predominantly found in its free-floating form. Additionally, MS-based proteomic analysis of CSF-derived EVs also did not show L1CAM enrichment. Our study validates EV isolation from diverse biofluid sources by several isolation approaches and confirms that some EV subpopulations in human biofluids are of neuronal origin. Thorough testing across multiple sources by different orthogonal methods, however, does not support L1CAM as a marker to reliably enrich for a specific subpopulation of EVs, particularly of neuronal origin.
PXD042168	40211278	Vorinostat impairs the cancer-driving potential of leukemia-secreted extracellular vesicles. 	Epigenetic Impairment of tumor potential of AML-derived extracellular vesicles	Epigenetic, SAHA, leukemia, tumorigenicity, vesicle	BACKGROUND: Leukemia-secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs) carry biologically active cargo that promotes cancer-supportive mechanisms, including aberrant proliferative signaling, immune escape, and drug resistance. However, how antineoplastic drugs affect EV secretion and cargo sorting remains underexplored. METHODS: Leukemia-secreted extracellular vesicles (EVs) were isolated by Differential UltraCentrifugation, and their miRNome and proteomic profiling cargo were analyzed following treatment with SAHA (Vorinostat) in Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) and Chronic Myeloid Leukemia (CML). The epigenetic modulation of leukemia-secreted EVs content on interesting key target molecules was validated, and their differential functional impact on cellular viability, cell cycle progression, apoptosis, and tumorigenicity was assessed. RESULTS: SAHA significantly alters the cargo of Leukemia-derived EVs, including miR-194-5p and its target BCLAF1 (mRNA and protein), key regulators of Leukemia cell survival and differentiation. SAHA upregulates miR-194-5p expression while selective loading BCLAF1 into EVs, reducing the miRNA levels in the same compartment. Additionally, SAHA alters miRNA profile and proteomic composition associated with leukemic EVs, altering their tumor-supportive potential, with differential effects observed between AML and CML. Furthermore, in silico predictions suggest that these modified EVs may influence cell sensitivity to antineoplastic agents, suggesting a dual role for SAHA in impairing oncogenic signaling while enhancing therapeutic responsiveness. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, the capacity of SAHA to modulate secretion and molecular composition of Leukemia-secreted EVs, alongside its direct cytotoxic effects, underscores its potential in combination therapies aimed to overcoming refractory phenotype by targeting EV-mediated communication.
PXD056957	40211380	A network-based approach to overcome BCR::ABL1-independent resistance in chronic myeloid leukemia. 	Phosphoproteomics reveals a crucial role of FLT3 in BCR::ABL1 independent resistant chronic myeloid leukemia	FLT3, Leukemia	BACKGROUND: About 40% of relapsed or non-responder tumors exhibit therapeutic resistance in the absence of a clear genetic cause, suggesting a pivotal role of intracellular communication. A deeper understanding of signaling pathways rewiring occurring in resistant cells is crucial to propose alternative effective strategies for cancer patients. METHODS: To achieve this goal, we developed a novel multi-step strategy, which integrates high sensitive mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomics with network-based analysis. This strategy builds context-specific networks recapitulating the signaling rewiring upon drug treatment in therapy-resistant and sensitive cells. RESULTS: We applied this strategy to elucidate the BCR::ABL1-independent mechanisms that drive relapse upon therapy discontinuation in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients. We built a signaling map, detailing - from receptor to key phenotypes - the molecular mechanisms implicated in the control of proliferation, DNA damage response and inflammation of therapy-resistant cells. In-depth analysis of this map uncovered novel therapeutic vulnerabilities. Functional validation in patient-derived leukemic stem cells revealed a crucial role of acquired FLT3-dependency and its underlying molecular mechanism. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, our study presents a novel generally applicable strategy and the reposition of FLT3, one of the most frequently mutated drivers of acute leukemia, as a potential therapeutic target for CML relapsed patients.
PXD026582	40211954	Heart Has Intrinsic Ketogenic Capacity that Mediates NAD(+) Therapy in HFpEF. 	The Heart has Intrinsic Ketogenic Capacity that is Facultatively Upregulated in Heart Failure with Preserved Ejection Fraction	HFpEF, Heart, ketones	BACKGROUND: Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) has overtaken heart failure with reduced ejection fraction as the leading type of heart failure globally and is marked by high morbidity and mortality rates, yet with only a single approved pharmacotherapy: SGLT2i (sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor). A prevailing theory for the mechanism underlying SGLT2i is nutrient deprivation signaling, of which ketogenesis is a hallmark. However, it is unclear whether the canonical ketogenic enzyme, HMGCS2 (3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A synthase 2), plays any cardiac role in HFpEF pathogenesis or therapeutic response. METHODS: We used human myocardium, human HFpEF and heart failure with reduced ejection fraction transcardiac blood sampling, an established murine model of HFpEF, ex vivo Langendorff perfusion, stable isotope tracing in isolated cardiomyocytes, targeted metabolomics, proteomics, lipidomics, and a novel cardiomyocyte-specific conditional HMGCS2-deficient model that we generated. RESULTS: We demonstrate, for the first time, the intrinsic capacity of the human heart to produce ketones via HMGCS2. We found that increased acetylation of HMGCS2 led to a decrease in the enzyme's specific activity. However, this was overcome by an increase in the steady-state levels of protein. Oxidized form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide repletion restored HMGCS2 function via deacetylation, increased fatty acid oxidation, and rescued cardiac function in HFpEF. Critically, using a conditional, cardiomyocyte-specific HMGCS2 knockdown murine model, we revealed that the oxidized form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide is unable to rescue HFpEF in the absence of cardiomyocyte HMGCS2. CONCLUSIONS: The canonical ketogenic enzyme, HMGCS2, mediates the therapeutic effects of the oxidized form of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide repletion in HFpEF by restoring normal lipid metabolism and mitochondrial function.
PXD053782	40213670	Hepatic stellate cell-derived microfibrillar-associated protein 2 prevents liver fibrosis by regulating extracellular matrix and inflammation. 	MAGP-1 protects liver fibrosis in experimental mouse models	ECM, MAGP-1, decellularization, liver fibrosis, matrisome	Microfibrillar-associated protein 2 (MFAP-2) is a crucial component of the extracellular matrix (ECM) microfibrils, yet its role in liver fibrosis remains elusive. Methods: Human tissue arrays and mouse models of fibrosis progression and resolution were used to investigate MFAP-2 expression patterns. Mfap2 deficiency (Mfap2 (-/-)) or overexpression (ovMfap2) mice were subjected to carbon tetrachloride (CCl4) injection or bile duct ligation (BDL) to induce liver fibrosis. Histological, biochemical, bulk, or single-cell RNA-sequencing (scRNA-seq), proteomics to analyze the matrisome, and in vitro studies were conducted. Results: MFAP-2 was predominantly enriched in activated hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) and upregulated in advanced liver fibrosis. Although Mfap2 ablation had minimal impact on collagen deposition during CCl4 injection, it significantly delayed fibrosis regression after CCl4 cessation. The delayed fibrosis regression due to Mfap2 deficiency was likely linked to aggravated intrahepatic inflammation, ECM stabilization, and activated focal adhesion signaling in HSCs. Mechanically, inhibiting HSC-derived Mfap2 enhanced HSC interactions and increased matrisome protein production, while reducing the interaction between HSCs and liver-resident macrophages by decreasing macrophage migration inhibitory factor secretion from HSCs. Additionally, we validated the role of Mfap2 deletion in liver fibrosis using the BDL mouse model, demonstrating a more pronounced effect on fibrosis progression. Adeno-associated virus vector (serotype 6)-mediated Mfap2 overexpression in HSCs conferred protection against liver fibrosis in both models. Conclusion: This study reveals the compensatory protective effects of HSC-derived MFAP-2 on liver fibrosis and its underlying mechanisms. Enhancing MFAP-2 in HSCs may therefore benefit patients with liver fibrosis.
PXD056880	40214481	Integrative Proteomic and Phosphoproteomic Profiling Reveals Molecular Mechanisms of Hypoxic Adaptation in Brandt's Voles (Lasiopodomys brandtii) Brain Tissue. 	Integrative Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Profiling Reveals Molecular Pathways in hypoxia adaptation of brain tissue in Lasiopodomys brandtii	Brain, Hypoxia, Lasiopodomys brandtii, Phosphoproteomic	Rapid ascent to high altitudes by unacclimatized individuals significantly increases the risk of brain damage, given the brain's heightened sensitivity to hypoxic conditions. Investigating hypoxia-tolerant animals can provide insights into adaptive mechanisms and guide prevention and treatment of hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. In this study, we exposed Brandt's voles to simulated altitudes (100 m, 3000 m, 5000 m, and 7000 m) for 24 h and performed quantitative proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses of brain tissue. A total of 3990 proteins and 9125 phosphorylation sites (phospho-sites) were quantified. Differentially expressed (DE) analysis revealed that while protein abundance changes were relatively modest, phosphorylation levels exhibited substantial alterations, suggesting that Brandt's voles rapidly regulate protein structure and function through phosphorylation to maintain cellular homeostasis under acute hypoxia. Clustering analysis showed that most co-expressed proteins exhibited non-monotonic responses with increasing altitude, which were enriched in pathways related to cytokine secretion regulation and glutathione metabolism, contributing to reduced inflammation and oxidative stress. In contrast, most co-expressed phospho-sites showed monotonic changes, with phospho-proteins enriched in glycolysis and vascular smooth muscle contraction regulation. Kinase activity prediction identified nine hypoxia-responsive kinases, four of which belonging to the CAMK family. Immunoblot validated that the changes in CAMK2A activity were consistent with predictions, suggesting that CAMK may play a crucial role in hypoxic response. In conclusion, this work discovered that Brandt's voles may cope with hypoxia through three key strategies: (1) vascular regulation to enhance cerebral blood flow, (2) glycolytic activation to increase energy production, and (3) activation of neuroprotective mechanisms.
PXD062469	40214501	The Ceramide-Dependent EV Secretome Differentially Affects Prostate Cancer Cell Migration. 	The ceramide-dependent EV secretome differentially affects prostate cancer cell migration	SMPD2, SMPD3, cell migration, extracellular matrix, neutral Sphingomyelinases	Tumor-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs) play an important role in cancer progression. Neutral sphingomyelinases (nSMases) are lipid-modifying enzymes that modulate the secretion of EVs from cells. How nSMase activity and therefore ceramide generation affect the composition and functionality of secreted EVs is not fully understood. Here, we aimed to investigate the expression of nSMases 1 and 2 in prostate cancer (PCa) tissue and their role in EV composition and secretion for prostate cancer cell migration. Reduced nSMase 1 and 2 expression was found in prostate cancer and correlated with the age of the patient. When nSMase 2 was inhibited by GW4869 in PCa cells (PC3 and DU145), the EV secretome was significantly altered, while the number of EVs and the total protein content of released EVs were not significantly changed. Using proteomic analysis, we found that extracellular matrix proteins, such as SDC4 (Syndecan-4) and SRPX-2, were differentially secreted on EVs from GW4869-treated PC3 cells. In scratch wound migration assays, GW4869 significantly increased migration compared to control PC3 cells but not DU145 cells, while SDC4 knockdown significantly reduced the migration of PC3 cells. These and other nSMase-2-dependent secreted proteins are interesting candidates for understanding the role of stress-induced EVs in the progression of prostate cancer.
PXD057140	40215968	A. faecalis induces intestinal T helper 17 cells by promoting E3 ubiquitin ligase Trim21-mediated E3 ubiquitin ligase Fbxw7 degradation. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of proteins interacting with Fbxw7 in T cells	Fbxw7, Gut microbiota, TH17 cells, Trim21	Segmented filamentous bacteria are essential for intestinal T helper 17 (Th17) cell induction, but their colonization in the adult intestine is controversial. Therefore, whether there are gut microbiota (GMs) that mediate Th17 cell generation in humans of different ages is elusive. Here, we reported that colonization of ubiquitous Alcaligenes faecalis was sufficient to induce intestinal Th17 cells. Alcaligenes faecalis proteins were endocytosed by CD4(+) T cells in a manner dependent on the small GTPase CDC42, inhibiting the interaction between E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme Ube2w and E3 ubiquitin ligase Trim21, thereby reducing Trim21 self-ubiquitination and degradation, which increased Trim21-induced E3 ubiquitin ligase Fbxw7 degradation and JunB accumulation, subsequently promoting Ahr and Rorc transcription, thus enhancing intestinal Th17 cell differentiation. Furthermore, outer membrane vesicles from Alcaligenes faecalis also induced intestinal Th17 cells in a Trim21-Fbxw7-axis-dependent manner. Altogether, these results reveal a vital role for the Trim21-Fbxw7 axis in intestinal Th17 cell enrichments among most humans.
PXD053778	40219707	Aged Gut Microbiota Contributes to Cognitive Impairment and Hippocampal Synapse Loss in Mice. 	4D-DIA of hippocampus in young old and FMT mice	aging hippocampus	Gut microbiota alteration during the aging process serves as a causative factor for aging-related cognitive decline, which is characterized by the early hallmark, hippocampal synaptic loss. However, the impact and mechanistic role of gut microbiota in hippocampal synapse loss during aging remains unclear. Here, we observed that the fecal microbiota of naturally aged mice successfully transferred cognitive impairment and hippocampal synapse loss to young recipients. Multi-omics analysis revealed that aged gut microbiota was characterized with obvious change in Bifidobacterium pseudolongum (B.p) and metabolite of tryptophan, indoleacetic acid (IAA) in the periphery and brain. These features were also reproduced in young recipients that were transplanted with aged gut microbiota. Fecal B.p abundance was reduced in patients with cognitive impairment compared to healthy subjects and showed a positive correlation with cognitive scores. Microbiota transplantation from patients who had fewer B.p abundances yielded worse cognitive behavior in mice than those with higher B.p abundances. Meanwhile, supplementation of B.p was capable of producing IAA and enhancing peripheral and brain IAA bioavailability, as well as improving cognitive behaviors and microglia-mediated synapse loss in 5 x FAD transgenic mice. IAA produced from B.p was shown to prevent microglia engulfment of synapses in an aryl hydrocarbon receptor-dependent manner. This study reveals that aged gut microbiota -induced cognitive decline and microglia-mediated synapse loss that is, at least partially, due to the deficiency in B.p and its metabolite, IAA. It provides a proof-of-concept strategy for preventing neurodegenerative diseases by modulating gut probionts and their tryptophan metabolites.
PXD057745	40219757	Corticotropin-releasing hormone inhibits autophagy by suppressing PTEN to promote apoptosis in dermal papilla cells. 	Human,scalp,dermal papilla cells,LC-MS/MS	dermal papilla cells, scalp	BACKGROUND: Stress-related hair loss is on the rise, largely due to escalating levels of stress-related corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) through poorly defined mechanisms. CRH-mediated activation of corticotropin-releasing hormone receptors (CRHRs) on dermal papilla cells (DPCs) is a likely cause of stress-related hair loss. The aim of the study is to elucidate the key mechanisms of alopecia caused by CRH and provide potential new targets for the treatment of stress-related hair loss. METHODS: 4D label-free quantitative proteomics of DPCs and the chronic unpredictable mild stress mouse (CUMS) model were used to explore the relationship and mechanism between CRH, DPCs and hair regeneration. RESULTS: CRH initially downregulated PTEN to suppress autophagy, leading to DPC apoptosis. Overexpression of PTEN enhanced autophagy and mitigated CRH-dependent DPC apoptosis. CRH inhibited PTEN and activated the PI3K/AKT/mTOR pathway, whereas rapamycin inhibited this pathway and activated autophagy, consequently lowering apoptosis, suggesting that increased susceptibility to apoptosis is caused by decreased autophagy. CUMS-induced hair growth disruption is accompanied by an increase in CRHRs and a decrease in PTEN levels within the dermal papilla. Intracutaneous injection of CRH impeded hair regeneration and decreased PTEN in mice, concurrent with inhibition of autophagy and increased apoptosis. CONCLUSIONS: These findings indicate that PTEN loss coupled with PI3K/AKT/mTOR-mediated autophagy inhibition and apoptosis in DPCs is a key mechanism of stress-related hair loss induced by CRH and suggests that topical activation of PTEN or enhancement of autophagy, e.g. through rapamycin, may have a therapeutic effect on stress-induced hair loss disorders such as alopecia.
PXD061767	40220625	New role for thioredoxins in plants: Implication of TRXo1 in protein depersulfidation. 	New role for thioredoxins in plants: implication of TRXo1 in protein depersulfidation	ascorbate peroxidase, dehydroascorbate reductase, hydrogen sulfide, monodehydroascorbate reductase, persulfidation, redox regulation, thioredoxin o1	Persulfidation, a posttranslational modification of cysteines to persulfides, is the best characterized molecular mechanism of H2S signaling. This study is focused on new functions for thioredoxins (TRXs) in plants beyond those of thiol disulfide (S-S) exchange, including the regulation of protein persulfidation as it has been described in animal systems. To elucidate the impact of TRXo1 deficiency on the protein persulfidation pattern in plants of Arabidopsis thaliana L. wild type (WT) and two Attrxo1 T-DNA insertion mutants grown under non stress conditions, a quantitative proteomic approach was performed. The proteomic analysis revealed a higher number of proteins that were more persulfidated in the mutants compared to WT plants, suggesting a role for TRXo1 in protein depersulfidation. Interestingly, most of the differentially persulfidated proteins were located in the chloroplast, implying a coordination between chloroplast H2S-dependent persulfidation and mitochondrial TRXo1 depersulfidation. Among the differentially persulfidated proteins located in mitochondria, the antioxidant enzymes sAPX, DHAR1 and MDAR6 were selected for further studies. The effect of H2S-dependent persulfidation on their enzymatic activities and its reversibility by the NADPH/thioredoxin reductase (NTRB)/TRXo1 system was analyzed, as well as their persulfidation levels were quantified. Sulfide treatment brought about increases in the activity levels of the enzymes, that match with a raise on the persulfidation levels. Interestingly, both activations declining after treatment with the thioredoxin system, indicate the regulation of their persulfidation by TRXo1. These results point to a positive effect of persulfidation on the enzymatic activities and also to a new depersulfidase activity for TRXo1. All together these results give a new insight of the mechanism of elimination of -SSH groups in plants exerted by TRXo1, and the involvement of a redox regulation on the protein persulfidation.
PXD042111	40220996	Collagen IV of basement membranes: I. Origin and diversification of COL4 genes enabling metazoan multicellularity, evolution and adaptation. 	Evolution of Collagen IV chains. Dogfish Lens	Collagen IV	Collagen IV is a major component of basement membranes, a specialized form of extracellular matrix that enabled the assembly of multicellular epithelial tissues. In mammals, collagen IV assembles from a family of six alpha-chains (alpha1 to alpha6), forming three supramolecular scaffolds: Col-IV(alpha121), Col-IV(alpha345) and Col-IV(alpha121-alpha556). The alpha-chains are encoded by six genes (COL4A1-6) that occur in pairs in a head-to-head arrangement. In Alport syndrome, variants in COL4A3, 4 or 5 genes, encoding Col-IV(alpha345) scaffold in glomerular basement membrane (GBM), the kidney ultrafilter, cause progressive renal failure in millions of people worldwide. The molecular mechanisms of how variants cause dysfunction remain obscure. Here, we gained insights into Col-IV(alpha345) function by determining its evolutionary lineage, as revealed from phylogenetic analyses and tissue expression of COL4 gene-pairs. We found that the COL4A<1|2> gene-pair emerged in basal Ctenophores and Cnidaria phyla and is highly conserved across metazoans. The COL4A<1|2> duplicated and arose as the progenitor to the COL4A<3|4> gene-pair in cyclostomes, coinciding with emergence of kidney GBM, and expressed and conserved in jawed-vertebrates, except for amphibians, and a second duplication as the progenitor to the COL4A<5|6> gene-pair and conserved in jawed-vertebrates. These findings revealed that Col-IV(alpha121) is the progenitor scaffold, expressed ubiquitously in metazoan basement membranes, and which evolved into vertebrate Col-IV(alpha345) and expressed in GBM. The Col-IV(alpha345) scaffold, in comparison, has an increased number of cysteine residues, varying in number with osmolarity of the environment. Cysteines mediate disulfide crosslinks between protomers, an adaptation enabling a compact GBM that withstands the high hydrostatic pressure associated with glomerular ultrafiltration.
PXD062014	40221426	Molecular determinants for the association of human hormone-sensitive lipase with lipid droplets. 	HDX-MS analysis of HSL lipid droplets binding	HDX-MS, HSL	Lipid droplets (LDs) are the main cellular storage sites for triacylglycerols (TAGs), playing an important role in energy homeostasis and cell signaling. Hydrolysis of the stored TAGs begins with conversion of TAGs into diacylglycerols (DAGs) by adipose triglyceride lipase (ATGL), followed by hydrolysis of DAGs by hormone-sensitive lipase (HSL). Despite the central role of HSL in lipolysis, the molecular determinants for its LD association have remained elusive. Here, we report the cryo-EM structure of human HSL at 3.4 Aa. Combining this with hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, biochemical and cellular assays, we identify residues 489-538, referred to as the "H-motif", and the N-terminal 4-helix bundle of HSL as LD-binding motifs mediating direct interaction of HSL with LDs. LD binding mediated by the LD-binding motifs is independent of HSL phosphorylation catalyzed by the cAMP-dependent kinase PKA. Our findings provide insight into the LD binding mechanism of HSL, advancing our understanding of the regulation of lipolysis.
PXD057641	40223095	Dysregulated ac4C modification of mRNA in a mouse model of early-stage Alzheimer's disease. 	Dysregulated ac4C modification of mRNA in a mouse model of early-stage Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimer's disease, ac4C acetylation, hippocampus	BACKGROUND: The identification and intervention of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) in its early-stage allows for the timely implementation of lifestyle modifications and therapeutic strategies. Although dysregulation of protein expression has been reported in the brain from AD patients and AD animal models, the underlying mechanisms remain poorly understood. N4-acetylcytidine (ac4C), the only known form of RNA acetylation in eukaryotes, has recently been shown to regulate mRNA stability and translation efficiency. However, the dysregulation of ac4C associated with abnormal protein expression levels in the brain of early-stage mouse models of AD remains to be elucidated. METHODS: This study investigated ac4C modifications, mRNA and protein expression in the hippocampus of 3 and 6-month-old 5xFAD mice, a mouse model of AD, and wild-type (WT) littermates. The multi-omics analysis was performed: acetylated RNA immunoprecipitation followed by next-generation sequencing (acRIP-seq) to identify ac4C mRNAs, deep RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) to quantify mRNA abundance, and label-free quantitative proteomics to assess protein expression levels. In addition, we used acRIP-qPCR, regular qPCR and western blots to verify the ac4C, mRNA and protein levels of some key genes that were identified by the high-throughput assays. RESULTS: Proteomic analysis revealed significant change of protein expression in the hippocampus of 3-months-old 5xFAD mice, compared with WT littermates. In contrast, RNA-seq analysis indicated that there were no substantial alterations in mRNA expression levels in the hippocampus of 3-months-old 5xFAD mice, compared to WT littermates. Strikingly, acRIP-seq revealed notable variations in ac4C modification on mRNAs, particularly those associated with synaptic structure and function, in the hippocampus of 3-months-old 5xFAD mice, compared with WT littermates. The ac4C modifications were found to be correlated with protein expression changes. Genes that are essential for synaptic function and cognition, including GRIN1, MAP2, and DNAJC6, exhibited reduced ac4C and protein levels in 3-months-old 5xFAD mice, without any corresponding changes in the mRNA levels, compared with WT littermates. Moreover, only a small part of dysregulated ac4C mRNAs identified in the 3-month-old 5xFAD mice were found in the 6-month-old 5xFAD mice. CONCLUSIONS: Altogether these results identified abnormal ac4C modification of mRNAs that may contribute to the dysregulation of protein synthesis in the hippocampus from an early-stage mouse model of AD.
PXD058897	40223358	An updated proteomic analysis of Drosophila haemolymph after bacterial infection. 	An updated proteomic analysis of Drosophila hemolymph after bacterial infection	Drosophila melanogaster, Imd pathway, Toll pathway, antimicrobial peptides, hemolymph, immunity, mitochondria, serine proteases	Using an in-depth Mass Spectrometry-based proteomics approach, we provide a comprehensive characterization of the hemolymphatic proteome of adult flies upon bacterial infection. We detected and quantified changes in abundance of several known immune regulators and effectors, including multiple antimicrobial peptides, peptidoglycan-binding proteins and serine proteases. Comparison to previously published transcriptomic analyses reveals a partial overlap with our dataset, indicating that many proteins released into the haemolymph upon infection may not be regulated at the transcript level. Among them, we identify a set of muscle-derived proteins released into the haemolymph upon infection. Finally, our analysis reveals that infection induces major changes in the abundance of proteins associated with mitochondrial respiration. This study uncovers a large number of previously undescribed proteins potentially involved in the immune response.
PXD060794	40223594	Proteasome dysfunction in T cells causes immunodeficiency via cell cycle disruption and apoptosis. 	DIA of CD4 SP thymocytes with or without TCR stimulation	DIA, TCR, proteasome, thymocytes	Proteasomes are essential molecular complexes that regulate intracellular protein homeostasis by selectively degrading ubiquitinated proteins. Genetic mutations in proteasome subunits lead to proteasome-associated autoinflammatory syndromes (PRAAS) characterized by autoinflammation, partial progressive lipodystrophy, and, in certain cases, immunodeficiency. However, the molecular mechanisms by which proteasome dysfunction results in these phenotypes remain unclear. Here, we established a mouse model carrying a mutation in beta5i (encoded by Psmb8) along with T-cell-specific beta5 (encoded by Psmb5) deficiency (KIKO mice). The KIKO mice presented severe loss of mature T cells in the spleen but not in the thymus, with reduced proteasome activity leading to the accumulation of ubiquitinated proteins. The CD4+ T cells of KIKO mice presented impaired proliferative activity with cell cycle arrest in the G0/G1 phase following TCR engagement. T cells from KIKO mice underwent rapid cell death through apoptosis, as treatment of T cells with the caspase inhibitor Z-VAD rescued cell viability. Moreover, proteasome dysfunction induced apoptosis in T cells without affecting either mitochondrial functions or ER stress responses. Thus, our data provide insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying not only immunodeficiency in PRAAS patients but also T-cell deficiency associated with other disorders.
PXD044173	40224277	Exploration of the plasma proteomic profile of patients at risk of thromboembolic events. 	A plasma proteomic exploration in the thromboembolic field	anticoagulation, thromboembolism	Background: The elevated health burden of thromboembolic events necessitates development of blood-based risk monitoring tools. Objectives: We explored the potential of mass spectrometry-based plasma proteomics to provide insights into underlying plasma protein signatures associated with treatment and occurrence of thromboembolic events. Methods: Utilizing a high-throughput, data-independent acquisition, discovery-based proteomics workflow, we analyzed 434 plasma proteomes from different groups of individuals with elevated risk of thromboembolic events, including individuals I) on vitamin K antagonists (VKAs; n = 130), II) with a prior venous thromboembolism (n = 10), III) with acute cerebral venous sinus thrombosis (n = 10, and IV) with SARS-CoV-2 infection (n = 67). Plasma protein levels measured with mass spectrometry were correlated with international normalized ratio and conventional clinical laboratory measurements. Plasma profile differences between different groups were assessed using principal component analysis, moderated t-test, and clustering analysis. Results: Plasma protein levels were in agreement with conventional clinical laboratory parameters, including albumin and fibrinogen. Levels of vitamin K-dependent proteins inversely correlated with international normalized ratio. In the individual studies, we found decreased levels of vitamin K-dependent coagulation proteins in patients on VKAs, alterations in inflammatory signatures among CVST patients and a distinctive signature indicative of SARS-CoV-2 infection. However, no protein signature associated with a thromboembolic event could be identified neither in individual nor combined studies. Conclusion: Although VKA treatment-specific and disease-specific signatures were captured, our study highlights that the challenges of discovering biomarkers in patients at risk of thromboembolic events lie in the heterogeneity of individual plasma profiles in relation to treatment and etiology.
PXD051730	40226914	Nuclear actin-dependent Meg3 expression suppresses metabolic genes by affecting the chromatin architecture at sites of elevated H3K27 acetylation levels. 	Qualitative LC-MSMS analysis of Mus Musculus proteins	Qualitative Proteomics	Nuclear actin mediates enhancer-dependent transcriptional regulation at compartment level, playing critical roles in 3D genome organization. In beta-actin depleted cells, H3K27 acetylation is enhanced, directly affecting enhancer-dependent transcriptional regulation and gene expression changes during compartment-switching. Here, we report these mechanisms are influenced by the long non-coding RNA (lncRNA) Meg3. Bulk RNA-seq analysis and qPCR on wild-type (WT), heterozygous (HET), and beta-actin knockout (KO) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) show that beta-actin depletion significantly alters expression of several lncRNAs, including Meg3. Results from ChIRP-seq, ChIRP-MS, and fRIP-qPCR revealed that in beta-actin KO cells, Meg3 becomes enriched and binds to H3K27 acetylation marks within gene regulatory regions. By integrating RNA-seq, H3K27 acetylation ChIP-seq, ATAC-seq, and HiC-seq data through activity by contact (ABC) analysis, we discovered Meg3 binding disrupts promoter-enhancer interactions in beta-actin KO cells. These results, combined with metabolomics in WT, HET, and beta-actin KO MEFs, show Meg3 binding to regulatory regions at sites of increased H3K27 acetylation impairs the expression of genes involved in the synthesis of chondroitin, heparan, dermatan sulfate, and phospholipases. We propose that in beta-actin KO cells Meg3 binds to H3K27 acetylation levels. This interferes with promoter-enhancer interactions, disrupts genome organization, and downregulates gene expression and key metabolic pathways.
PXD049145	40229248	DIA-BERT: pre-trained end-to-end transformer models for enhanced DIA proteomics data analysis. 	[HPP-2.0] Proteomics data of cancers	DIA	Data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) has become increasingly pivotal in quantitative proteomics. In this study, we present DIA-BERT, a software tool that harnesses a transformer-based pre-trained artificial intelligence (AI) model for analyzing DIA proteomics data. The identification model was trained using over 276 million high-quality peptide precursors extracted from existing DIA-MS files, while the quantification model was trained on 34 million peptide precursors from synthetic DIA-MS files. When compared to DIA-NN, DIA-BERT demonstrated a 51% increase in protein identifications and 22% more peptide precursors on average across five human cancer sample sets (cervical cancer, pancreatic adenocarcinoma, myosarcoma, gallbladder cancer, and gastric carcinoma), achieving high quantitative accuracy. This study underscores the potential of leveraging pre-trained models and synthetic datasets to enhance the analysis of DIA proteomics.
PXD055157	40229283	MGAT1-Guided complex N-Glycans on CD73 regulate immune evasion in triple-negative breast cancer. 	MGAT1-Mediated Glycosylation Orchestrates Immune Checkpoints and Antitumor Immunity	CD73, MGAT1, drug design and therapeutics, glycosylation, tumor immunogenicity	Despite the widespread application of immunotherapy, treating immune-cold tumors remains a significant challenge in cancer therapy. Using multiomic spatial analyses and experimental validation, we identify MGAT1, a glycosyltransferase, as a pivotal factor governing tumor immune response. Overexpression of MGAT1 leads to immune evasion due to aberrant elevation of CD73 membrane translocation, which suppresses CD8(+) T cell function, especially in immune-cold triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC). Mechanistically, addition of N-acetylglucosamine to CD73 by MGAT1 enables the CD73 dimerization necessary for CD73 loading onto VAMP3, ensuring membrane fusion. We further show that THBS1 is an upstream etiological factor orchestrating the MGAT1-CD73-VAMP3-adenosine axis in suppressing CD8(+) T cell antitumor activity. Spatial transcriptomic profiling reveals spatially resolved features of interacting malignant and immune cells pertaining to expression levels of MGAT1 and CD73. In preclinical models of TNBC, W-GTF01, an inhibitor specifically blocked the MGAT1-catalyzed CD73 glycosylation, sensitizing refractory tumors to anti-PD-L1 therapy via restoring capacity to elicit a CD8(+) IFNgamma-producing T cell response. Collectively, our findings uncover a strategy for targeting the immunosuppressive molecule CD73 by inhibiting MGAT1.
PXD054584	40230524	Unveiling transcriptional mechanisms of B7-H3 in breast cancer stem cells through proteomic approaches. 	Unveiling Transcriptional Mechanisms of B7-H3 in Breast Cancer Stem Cells Through Proteomic Approaches 	B7-H3, Cancer stem cells, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Transcription factors	B7-H3, an immune checkpoint molecule, is prominently overexpressed in various solid tumors, correlating with poor clinical outcomes. Despite its critical role in promoting tumorigenesis, metastasis, and immune evasion, the regulatory mechanisms governing B7-H3 expression, particularly in cancer stem cells (CSCs), remain elusive. In this comprehensive study, we focused on breast CSCs to uncover the transcriptional regulators driving B7-H3 overexpression. Utilizing DNA affinity purification-mass spectrometry (DAP-MS) to analyze B7-H3 promoter regions, we identified a novel set of transcription factors, including DDB1, XRCC5, PARP1, RPA1, and RPA3, as key modulators of B7-H3 expression. Functional assays revealed that targeting DDB1 with nitazoxanide significantly downregulated B7-H3 expression, subsequently impairing tumor sphere formation and cell migration in breast CSCs. These findings not only elucidate the complex transcriptional network controlling B7-H3 expression but also open new avenues for developing targeted immunotherapies aimed at disrupting CSC-driven cancer progression.
PXD060493	40233744	Tailoring an intravenously injectable oncolytic virus for augmenting radiotherapy. 	Tailoring an Intravenously Injectable Oncolytic Virus for Augmenting Radiotherapy	Anti-tumor immune responses, DNA damage and repair, Oncolytic viruses, ROS-responsive materials, Radiotherapy, Synergistic therapy	Oncolytic viruses (OVs) combined with radiotherapy (RT) show promise but are limited by challenges such as poor intravenous delivery and insufficient RT-induced DNA damage. In this study, an oncolytic adenovirus (AD) formulation, RadioOnco (AD@PSSP), is developed to improve delivery, infectivity, immune response, and RT efficacy. The multifunctional polyethylenimine (PEI)-selenium-polyethylene glycol (PEG) (PSSP) enhances intravenous delivery, shields the virus from rapid clearance, and enables targeted delivery to tumor sites after RT. The exposed PEI enhances the infectivity of AD through electrostatic interactions, thereby increasing DNA damage after RT by inhibiting the expression of DNA repair proteins, such as CHEK1 and CDK1. Furthermore, AD-PEI captures and delivers RT-induced tumor-released antigens to lymph nodes, activating robust anti-tumor immune responses. Animal model data demonstrate that RadioOnco overcomes RT resistance, targets distant metastases, and promotes long-term immunity, addressing metastasis and recurrence. In summary, this intravenously injectable OV enhances RT synergy through surface modification with multifunctional materials.
PXD054521	40234451	Integrative proteogenomic characterization reveals therapeutic targets in poorly differentiated and anaplastic thyroid cancers. 	Integrative Proteogenomic Characterization Reveals Therapeutic Targets in Poorly Differentiated and Anaplastic Thyroid Cancers	Phosphoproteomic, Proteogenomic, Thyroid cancer	Poorly differentiated thyroid cancer (PDTC) and anaplastic thyroid cancer (ATC) present major challenges in treatment owing to extreme aggressiveness and high heterogeneity. In this study, deep-scale analyses spanning genomic, proteomic, and phosphoproteomic data are performed on 348 thyroid-cancer and 119 tumor-adjacent samples. TP53 (48%), TERT promoter (36.5%), and BRAF (23%) are most frequently mutated in PDTC and ATC. Ribosome biogenesis is identified as a common hallmark of ATC, and RRP9 silencing dramatically inhibits tumor growth. Proteomic clustering identified three ATC/PDTC subtypes. Pro-I subtype is characterized with aberrant insulin signaling and low immune cell infiltration, and Pro-II is featured with DNA repair signaling, while Pro-III harbors high frequency of TP53 and BRAF mutation and intensive C5AR1(+) myeloid infiltration. Targeting C5AR1 synergistically improves antitumor effect of PD-1 blockade against ATC cell-derived tumors. These findings provide systematic insights into tumor biology and opportunities for drug discovery, accelerating precision therapy for virulent thyroid cancers.
PXD046803	40234527	LOXHD1 is an oncofusion-regulated antigen of ewing sarcoma. 	Ewing sarcoma immunopeptidomics	Ewing sarcoma, IFN gamma, Immunopeptidomics	Ewing Sarcoma (EwS) is a rare pediatric malignancy characterized by a unique t(11:22) (q24;q12) translocation resulting in the pathognomonic EWSR1::FLI1 fusion. Recent reports indicate that the EWSR1::FLI1 oncofusion drives aberrant expression of numerous transcripts, including Lipoxygenase Homology Domains 1 (LOXHD1). Given its highly restricted protein expression pattern and role in EwS tumorigenesis and metastasis, LOXHD1 may serve as a novel immunotherapeutic target in this malignancy. LOXHD1 immunogenic epitopes restricted to HLA-A*02:01 allowed for the isolation of a high avidity alphabetaTCR. LOXHD1-specific TCR engineered CD8(+) T cells conferred cytotoxic activity against a panel of HLA-A*02:01(+) EwS tumor cell lines and adoptive transfer led to tumor eradication in a mouse xenograft model of EwS. This study nominates LOXHD1 as an oncofusion regulated, non-mutated tumor associated antigen (TAA) with expression limited to inner hair cells of the cochlea, adult testis, and EwS.
PXD061607	40234672	Blood proteome profiling for biomarker discovery in broilers with necrotic enteritis. 	Blood Proteome profiling for protein biomarker discovery in Broilers	Gallus gallus, blood plasma biomarkers, gut health, necrotic enteritis	Analysis of the blood proteome allows identification of proteins related to changes upon certain physiological conditions. The pathophysiology of necrotic enteritis (NE) has been extensively studied. While intestinal changes have been very well documented, data addressing NE-induced alterations in the blood proteome are scant, although these might have merit in diagnostics. In light of recent technological advancements in proteomics and pressing need for tools to access gut health, the current study employs mass-spectrometry (MS)-based proteomics to identify biomarkers for gastrointestinal health of chickens. Here, we report findings of an untargeted proteomics investigation conducted on blood plasma in chickens under NE challenge. Two MS-strategies were used for analysis: conventional data dependent acquisition coupled to standard nanoflow liquid chromatography (LC) (nano-DDA) and recently-developed data independent acquisition coupled to an Evosep One LC system (Evo-DIA). Despite superior completeness and quantification of the Evo-DIA-acquired data, high degree of agreement in identification and quantification was observed between both approaches. Additionally, we identified 15 differentially expressed proteins (shared by nano-DDA and Evo-DIA) that represent responses of animals to infection and may serve as potential biomarkers. Experimental validation through ELISA immunoassays and targeted MS for selected regulated proteins (CFD, HPS5, and MASP2) confirmed medium-to-high levels of inter-protein correlation. A GSEA analysis revealed enrichment in a number of processes related to adaptive and humoral immunity, immune activation and response in infected animals. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD050461, PXD050473, and PXD061607.
PXD062465	40236020	Pooled scanning of protein variants identifies novel RNA-binding mutants. 	Pooled scanning of protein variants identifies novel RNA-binding mutants	LC-MS, RNA-binding proteins, peptide barcodes, protein-RNA interactions, technology development	Binding to RNA has been observed for an ever-increasing number of proteins, which often have other functions. The contributions of RNA binding to protein function are best discerned by studying separation-of-function mutants that hamper interaction with RNA without affecting other aspects of protein function. To design these mutants, we need precise knowledge of the residues that contribute to the affinity of the protein for its RNA ligands. Here, we present RBR-scan: a technology to simultaneously measure RNA-binding affinity of a large number of protein variants. We fused individual variants with unique peptide barcodes optimized for detection by mass spectrometry (MS), purified protein pools from single bacterial culture, and assayed proteins in parallel for RNA binding. Mutations in the MS2 coat protein known to impair RNA-binding were correctly identified, as well as a previously unreported mutant, which we validated with orthogonal biochemical methods. We used RBR-scan to discover novel RNA-binding mutants in the cancer-associated splicing regulator SRSF2. Together, our results demonstrate that RBR-scan is a powerful and scalable platform for linking RNA-binding affinity to protein sequence, offering a novel strategy to decode the functional consequences of protein-RNA interactions.
PXD050638	40237541	A small RNA from Streptococcus suis epidemic ST7 strain promotes bacterial survival in host blood and brain by enhancing oxidative stress resistance. 	Proteome of WT and rss03 deletion mutant	Small RNA, Streptococcus suis	Streptococcus suis is a Gram-positive pathogen causing septicaemia and meningitis in pigs and humans. However, how S. suis maintains a high bacterial load in the blood and brain is poorly understood. In this study, we found that a small RNA rss03 is predominantly present in S. suis, Streptococcus parasuis, and Streptococcus ruminantium, implying a conserved biological function. rss03 with a size of 303 nt mainly exists in S. suis sequence type (ST) 1 and epidemic ST7 strains that are responsible for human infections in China. Using MS2-affinity purification coupled with RNA sequencing (MAPS), proteomics analysis, and CopraRNA prediction, 14 direct targets of rss03 from an ST7 strain were identified. These direct targets mainly involve substance transport, transcriptional regulation, rRNA modification, and stress response. A more detailed analysis reveals that rss03 interacts with the coding region of glpF mRNA, and unexpectedly rss03 protects glpF mRNA from degradation by RNase J1. The GlpF protein is an aquaporin, contributes to S. suis oxidative stress resistance by H2O2 efflux, and facilitates bacterial survival in murine macrophages RAW264.7. Finally, we showed that rss03 and GlpF are required to maintain a high bacterial load in mouse blood and brain. Our study presents the first sRNA targetome in streptococci, enriches the knowledge of sRNA regulation in streptococci, and identifies pathways contributing to S. suis pathogenesis.
PXD052010	40238197	Anti-beta2glycoprotein I-induced neutrophil extracellular TRAPS cause endothelial activation. 	CONNETTING ANTI-beta2GLYCOPROTEIN I ANTIBODIES, NETosis AND ENDOTHELIAL CELL ACTIVATION	Antiphospholipid Syndrome, ENDOTHELIAL CELL ACTIVATION, NETosis, autoimmune disorder	OBJECTIVE: NETs involvement in antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) pathogenesis is known, but the role of anti-beta2glycoprotein I antibodies (abeta2GPI)-induced NETs in triggering a procoagulant and proinflammatory phenotype in endothelial cells (EC) remains to be evaluated. This study investigated whether NET-abeta2GPI can activate ECs and whether NET-abeta2GPI and NET-PMA have different proteomic profiles. METHODS: Healthy donors (HD) neutrophils were stimulated with APS-abeta2GPI, normal human IgG or PMA. NETs were stained with anti-neutrophil elastase and DAPI, and the ability of abeta2GPI to bind NETs and inhibit DNA degradation was investigated. Following abeta2GPI, NET-abeta2GPI and NET-PMA stimuli, we evaluated EC activation investigating ICAM, VCAM, and TF expression using flow cytometry and RT-qPCR; and EC dysfunction analyzing extracellular microvesicles (EMVs) release via flow cytometry and NanoSight analysis. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics was performed on NET-abeta2GPI and NET-PMA. RESULTS: Unlike normal IgG, abeta2GPI induced NET formation and bound to NETs by colocalizing with the neutrophil elastase signal at 93.6% without preventing NET degradation.Compared with unstimulated EC, NET-abeta2GPI triggered higher mRNA and a robust expression of TF, VCAM and ICAM in EC with a change-fold MFI of 6, 4.2 and 2.3. abeta2GPI induced a significant increase in EMVs compared with untreated samples and those treated with NETs. Fifty-six proteins were identified, 7 resulted upregulated in NET-abeta2GPI and downregulated in PMA-induced ones. GO enrichment analysis revealed that proteins upregulated in NET-abeta2GPI were enriched for ubiquitin protein ligase binding and SLC2A4 translocation to the plasma membrane. CONCLUSION: abeta2GPI-induced NETs can cause EC activation and TF expression.
PXD053328	40238755	Evaluation and Characterization of Acute respiratory distress syndrome in tree shrews through TMT proteomic method. 	Evaluation And Characterization Of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome In Tree Shrews Through TMT Proteomic Method	TMT proteomics, acute respiratory distress syndrome, immunological responses, lungs, tree shrew	Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), a common cause of acute fatal respiratory, is characterized by severe inflammatory lung injury as well as hallmarks of increased pulmonary vascular permeability, neutrophil infiltration, and macrophage accumulation. Tree shrew, a squirrel-like small animal model, has been confirmed to have more similar traits to human ARDS with one-hit intratracheal instillation of LPS in our previous study. In this study, we characterized protein profile changes induced by intranasal LPS challenge in the tree shrew model through tandem mass tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics and type II alveolar epithelial cells through pathological analysis. In total, 4070 proteins (p <  0.05) were identified from lung tissues of the LPS-induced group and PBS group. Among the differential expression proteins (DEPs) detected by t-test (>=|1.5-fold|), 529 DEPs were identified, of which 304 were upregulated, and 225 were downregulated. The most important pathways involved in the process of ARDS had been identified by enrichment analysis: oxidative stress, apoptosis, inflammatory responses, and vascular endothelial injury. In addition, proteins have been reported in animal models or clinical patients also detail investigated for further analysis, such as ceruloplasmin (CP), hemopexin (HPX), sphingosine kinase 1 (SphK1), lactotransferrin (LTF), and myeloperoxidase (MPO) were upregulated in induced tissues and confirmed by western blot analysis. Overall, this study not only reveals a comprehensive proteomic analysis of the ARDS tree shrew model but also provides novel insights into multi-pathways responses induced by the LPS challenge of tree shrews. We highlight shared and unique proteomic changes in the lungs of ARDS tree shrews and identify novel pathways for acute lung injury, which may promote the model into basic research and translational research.
PXD060034	40238785	Identifying putative substrates of Calpain-15 in neurodevelopment. 	Identifying putative substrates of Calpain-15 in neurodevelopment	CAPN15, Calpain-15, TAILS, protease	Calpain 15 (CAPN15) is an intracellular cysteine protease belonging to the non-classical small optic lobe (SOL) family of calpains, which has an important role in developmental processes. Loss of Capn15 in mice leads to developmental eye anomalies and volumetric changes in the brain. Human individuals with biallelic variants in CAPN15 have developmental delay, neurodevelopmental disorders, as well as congenital malformations, including eye anomalies. However, the substrates of Capn15 are still unidentified. Here, using Capn15 KO P2 mice of both sexes, we have used RNA sequencing (RNA-SEQ), proteomics, and N-terminomics/terminal amino isotopic labelling of substrates (TAILS), to examine putative substrates of Capn15. There were few changes in the transcriptome profile, and we could not verify a protein change in one selected mRNA between Capn15-/- and WT mice, although a putative transcription factor linked to these changes, Pax2, did show a significant increase after the loss of Capn15. TAILS revealed a preference for cleavage at basic residues, and while no hits showed a significant change in cleavage, some were more abundant when Capn15 was removed. These included Doublecortin and Tubb3, and the Doublecortin predicted cleavage was at a lysine residue. Cleavages at lysine residues were enriched in peptides that were lost or reduced when Capn15 was removed, but not in cleavages that were unchanged when Capn15 was removed.
PXD058213	40240371	Targeting PLK1-CBX8-GPX4 axis overcomes BRAF/EGFR inhibitor resistance in BRAFV600E colorectal cancer via ferroptosis. 	Synthetic lethal combinations targeting PLK1-CBX8-GPX4 axis with BRAF and EGFR  inhibition in BRAF V600E colorectal cancer	Immunoprecipitation-Mass Spectrometry	Metastatic BRAF(V600E) colorectal cancer (CRC) confers poor prognosis and represents a therapeutic bottleneck. To identify resistance mechanisms of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway in BRAF(V600E) CRC, we perform genome-wide CRISPR-Cas9 screening and discover that targeting glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) overcomes resistance to BRAF inhibitor (BRAFi) combined with or without epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitor (EGFRi) in BRAF(V600E) CRC. Specifically, BRAFi +/- EGFRi upregulates GPX4 expression, which antagonizes therapy-induced ferroptosis. Moreover, polo-like kinase 1 (PLK1) substrate activation promotes PLK1 translocation to the nucleus, activating chromobox protein homolog 8 (CBX8) phosphorylation at Ser265 to drives GPX4 expression. Targeting PLK1 enhances BRAFi +/- EGFRi inhibition and triggers ferroptosis in vitro, vivo, organoid, and patient-derived xenograft model. Collectively, we demonstrate a PLK1-CBX8-GPX4 signaling axis that relays the ferroptosis mechanism of therapeutic resistance and propose a clinically actionable strategy to overcome BRAFi +/- EGFRi resistance in BRAF(V600E) CRC.
PXD029562	40240752	Effects of life-long hyperlipidaemia on age-dependent development of endothelial dysfunction in humanised dyslipidaemic mice. 	Accelerated age-dependent development of endothelial dysfunction in humanized dyslipidemic mice	FASP, endothelial dysfunction, humanized dyslipidemic mice, qunatitative proteomics, total protein approach	Little is known, how life-long hyperlipidaemia affects vascular ageing, before atherosclerosis. Here, we characterise effects of mild, life-long hyperlipidaemia on age-dependent endothelial dysfunction (ED) in humanised dyslipidaemia model of E3L.CETP mice. Vascular function was characterised using magnetic resonance imaging in vivo and wire myograph ex vivo. Plasma endothelial biomarkers and non-targeted proteomics in plasma and aorta were analysed. Early atherosclerosis lesions were occasionally present only in 40-week-old or older E3L.CETP mice. However, age-dependent ED developed earlier, in 14-week-old male and 22-week-old female E3L.CETP mice as compared with 40-week-old female and male C57BL/6J mice. Acetylcholine-induced vasodilation in 8-week-old E3L.CETP, especially female mice, was blocked by catalase and attributed to H2O2. In 8-week-old female E3L.CETP mice, changes in plasma proteome in response to hyperlipidaemia were modest, while in male mice a number of differentially expressed proteins were identified that were involved in oxidative stress response, inflammation and regulation of metabolic pathways. In contrast, in older E3L.CETP and C57BL/6J mice, either plasma or aortic proteome displayed similar pattern of vascular ageing, dominating over hyperlipidaemia-induced changes. Interestingly, in 48-week-old male but not female E3L.CETP mice, vascular mitochondrial functional response was impaired. Early resilience of hyperlipidaemia-induced detrimental effects in young female E3L.CETP mice on a functional level was associated with a switch in vasodilation mechanism, blunted systemic proteomic response in plasma and slower ED development as compared to male E3L.CETP mice. The results indicate that profile of early vascular response to risk factors in young age may determine level of ED in older age before atherosclerosis development.
PXD061315	40241376	Multiplicity of Regulatory Subunit Conformations Defines Structural Ensemble of Reset Protein Kinase A Holoenzyme. 	Multiplicity of regulatory subunit conformations define structural ensemble of reset Protein Kinase A holoenzyme	Conformational dynamics, Phosphodiesterase, Protein Kinase A, Reset, Signal termination	How protein kinase A (PKA) is reset to a basal state following 3'5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-mediated activation is unknown. Here we describe the mechanism of cAMP-PKA type I signal termination leading to a reset of PKA by holoenzyme formation through the obligatory action of phosphodiesterases (PDEs). We report a catalytic subunit (Calpha)-assisted mechanism for the reset of type I PKA and describe for the first time multiple structures of the reset PKA holoenzyme (RIalpha2:Calpha2) that capture an ensemble of multiple conformational end-states through integrative electron microscopy and structural mass spectrometry approaches. Together these complementary methods highlight the large conformational dynamics of the regulatory subunit (RIalpha) within the tetrameric reset PKA holoenzyme. The cAMP-free reset PKA holoenzyme adopts multiple distinct conformations of RIalpha with contributions from the N-terminal linker and CNB-B dynamics. Our findings highlight the interplay between RIalpha, Calpha, and PDEs (PDE8) in cAMP-PKA signalosomes to offer a new paradigm for PDE-mediated regulation of cAMP-PKA signaling.
PXD053116	40242769	Angiotensinogen and C3 compete for renin-induced complement activation. 	Angiotensinogen and C3 compete for renin-induced complement activation	C3, angiotensinogen, renin	Renin from plasma, kidney, and recombinant sources was previously demonstrated to cleave C3 to C3a and C3b. C3a was generated at a similar rate to that by C3 convertase, and C3 cleavage was inhibited by the renin inhibitor aliskiren. Renin endogenously produced by Calu6 cells also led to C3 deposition on cells. These results have been challenged by another group suggesting that recombinant renin does not cleave C3 or that renin was contaminated by trypsin, which also cleaves C3. Here, we investigated C3 cleavage by recombinant renin and competitive inhibition in the presence of angiotensinogen. Recombinant renin was analyzed by mass spectrometry using endopeptidase LysC digestion and did not contain trypsin. C3 cleavage, using our protocol and that of the other group, showed cleavage to C3b by immunoblotting. Cleavage was inhibited by aliskiren, which inhibits renin but not trypsin. Cleavage to C3a occurred within 1 min as detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Angiotensinogen competed for renin-mediated C3 cleavage and inhibited C3a generation, but C3 did not inhibit cleavage of angiotensinogen to angiotensin I (detected by ELISA). The results suggest that renin cleaves C3 but angiotensinogen is its preferred substrate. The interaction between renin and C3 may gain importance in the kidney where renin concentrations are considerably higher than in the circulation and when the primary substrate, angiotensinogen, is cleaved and thereby depleted.
PXD061958	40243471	Proteomic Profiling of Donkey Milk Exosomes Highlights Bioactive Proteins with Immune-Related Functions. 	Proteomic Profiling of Donkey Milk Exosomes Highlights Bioactive Proteins with Immune-Related Functions	Donkey milk exosomes	The growing recognition of the role of milk-derived exosomes in metabolic and immunological processes has brought attention to the potential utility of donkey milk. However, the efficacy and bioactive components of donkey milk are underexplored. This study aimed to elucidate the proteomic profiles of exosomes isolated from donkey colostrum and mature milk using advanced four-dimensional (4D) label-free quantitative proteomics. A comprehensive analysis identified and quantified a total of 2293 exosomal proteins from donkey milk, including 276 differentially expressed exosomal proteins (DEEPs). The results revealed marked proteomic differences between colostrum and mature milk exosomes, particularly in proteins associated with immune responses and metabolic pathways. Exosomal proteins derived from colostrum were found to be enriched in immune-modulatory factors and glycan-related pathways, which may contribute to the enhancement in neonatal immune system development. In contrast, exosomal proteins from mature milk were predominantly associated with metabolic processes and cellular senescence. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis further suggested that specific exosomal proteins highly expressed in colostrum could serve as nutraceutical components with potential health benefits for humans. In conclusion, this study underscores the distinct proteomic features and potential physiological roles of exosomes from donkey colostrum versus mature milk.
PXD055835	40243598	Characterizing Common Factors Affecting Replication Initiation During H2O2 Exposure and Genetic Mutation-Induced Oxidative Stress in Escherichia coli. 	Effect of oxidative stress on proteome expression in Escherichia coli	Escherichia coli, oxidative stress, proteome expression	Oxidative stress is prevalent in organisms, and excessive oxidative damage can trigger cell death. Bacteria have evolved multiple pathways to cope with adverse stress, including the regulation of the cell cycle. Previous studies show that non-lethal exposure to H2O2 and mutations in antioxidant enzymes suppress replication initiation in Escherichia coli. The existence of common regulatory factors governing replication initiation across diverse causes-induced oxidative stress remains unclear. In this study, we utilized flow cytometry to determine the replication pattern of E. coli, and found that oxidative stress also participated in the inhibition of replication initiation by a defective iron regulation (fur-bfr-dps deletion). Adding a certain level of ATP promoted replication initiation in various antioxidant enzyme-deficient mutants and the DeltafurDeltabfrDeltadps mutant, suggesting that low ATP levels could be a common factor in the inhibition of replication initiation by different causes-induced oxidative stress. More potential common factors were screened using proteomics, followed by genetic validation with H2O2 stress. We found that oxidative stress might mediate the inhibition of replication initiation by interfering with the metabolism of glycine, glutamate, ornithine, and aspartate. Blocking CcmA-dependent cytochrome c biosynthesis, deleting the efflux pump proteins MdtABCD and TolC, or the arabinose transporter AraFHG eliminated the replication initiation inhibition by H2O2. In conclusion, this study uncovers a common multifactorial pathway of different causes-induced oxidative stress inhibiting replication initiation. Dormant and persistent bacteria exhibit an arrested or slow cell cycle, and non-lethal oxidative stress promotes their formation. Our findings contribute to exploring strategies to limit dormant and persistent bacterial formation by maintaining faster DNA replication initiation (cell cycle progression).
PXD060937	40244610	Quantitative Changes in the Proteome of Chronically Inflamed Lacrimal Glands From a Sjoegren's Disease Animal Model. 	Lacrimal Gland from Sjgren's disease animal model	Sjgrens Disease, lacrimal gland	Purpose: The lacrimal gland (LG) is the major source of aqueous tears, and insufficient LG secretion leads to aqueous-deficient dry eye (ADDE) disease. To provide a foundational description of LG's protein expression patterns, we prepared protein extracts of LGs from a wild-type and an ADDE mouse model and analyzed the proteome by quantitative mass spectrometry. Methods: LGs were isolated from an ADDE mouse model, male non-obese diabetic (NOD) mice and control wild-type BALB/c mice (n = 6 each). Protein samples were prepared in urea-based lysis buffer and protein concentrations determined by the BCA method. The equivalent of 200 microg protein were tryptically digested and analyzed by nanoflow liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). Proteins were identified and quantified using the PEAKS X bioinformatics suite. Downstream differential protein expression analysis was performed using the MS-DAP R package. Selected significantly differentially expressed and detected proteins were subjected to spatial expression analysis using immunohistochemistry. Results: Cumulatively, the LC-MS/MS-based proteomics analyses of the murine LG samples identified a total of 31,932 peptide sequences resulting in 2617 protein identifications at a 1% false discovery rate at the peptide and protein level. Principal component analysis (PCA) and hierarchical cluster analysis revealed a separation of NOD and BALB/c samples. Overall, protein diversity was consistently higher in NOD samples. After applying global peptide filter criteria and peptide-to-protein rollup, 1750 remaining proteins were subjected to differential expression analysis using the MSqRob algorithm, which identified 580 proteins with statistically significant expression differences. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD060937. At the cellular level, the up- and downregulation of select proteins were confirmed by immunohistochemistry. Conclusions: Our data suggest that chronic inflammation leads to significant alterations in the LG proteome. Ongoing studies aim to identify potentially unique, inflammation-induced proteins that could be amenable to pharmacological modulation.
PXD061525	40244667	Receptor kinase pathway signal tuning through a nontranscriptional incoherent feedforward loop. 	Receptor kinase pathway signal tuning through a non-transcriptional incoherent feedforward loop	BAM3, CLE45, MAKR5, receptor kinase	Cellular signaling processes can elicit powerful responses and may need to be amplified to be efficient or dampened to prevent overstimulation. Therefore, they often involve autoregulatory feedbacks. Receptor kinase signaling pathways are abundant in plants, where they convey the presence of both exogenous and endogenous ligands. Among them, endogenous CLAVATA3/EMBRYO SURROUNDING REGION (CLE) peptide signaling acts in an inherently quantitative manner to determine the size of stem cell pools and direct tissue formation. The plant-specific MEMBRANE-ASSOCIATED KINASE REGULATOR (MAKR) family proteins act downstream of receptor kinases. Among the seven family members in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), MAKR5 conveys CLE45 signaling downstream of the receptor kinase BARELY ANY MERISTEM 3 (BAM3). Here, we show that the distinct MAKR5 mode of action can only be fully mimicked by MAKR3, suggesting functional diversification of MAKR proteins. Moreover, we find that CLE45-stimulated and BAM3-dependent MAKR5 recruitment to the plasma membrane can be triggered independent of receptor-like cytoplasmic kinases that act downstream of BAM3 and depends on membrane charge. The CLE45-BAM3-triggered enhancement of MAKR5 production and plasma membrane association is mediated by autoregulatory feedback on MAKR5 mRNA translation, for which the 5' UTR is required. At the same time, this signal amplification is dampened through CLE45-stimulated MAKR5 phosphorylation, which inactivates MAKR5, enhances its turnover, and impinges on MAKR5 mRNA levels. In summary, our results reveal a nontranscriptional incoherent feedforward loop in which receptor kinase signaling is amplified via ligand-triggered translation of a signal enhancer's mRNA yet also balanced via ligand-triggered inactivation of the signal enhancer protein.
PXD058329	40245979	Awakening of the RuMP cycle for partial methylotrophy in the thermophile Parageobacillus thermoglucosidasius. 	Awakening of the RuMP cycle for partial methylotrophy in the thermophile Parageobacillus thermoglucosidasius	P. thermoglucosidasius, RuMP cycle, methanol dehydrogenase, synthetic methylotrophy, thermophile	Given sustainability and scalability concerns of using sugar feedstocks for microbial bioproduction of bulk chemicals, widening the feedstock range for microbial cell factories is of high interest. Methanol is a one-carbon alcohol that stands out as an alternative feedstock for the bioproduction of chemicals, as it is electron-rich, water-miscible and can be produced from several renewable resources. Bioconversion of methanol into products under thermophilic conditions (>50degreesC) could be highly advantageous for industrial biotechnology. Although progress is being made with natural, thermophilic methylotrophic microorganisms, they are not yet optimal for bioproduction and establishing alternative thermophilic methylotrophic bioproduction platforms can widen possibilities. Hence, we set out to implement methanol assimilation in the emerging thermophilic model organism Parageobacillus thermoglucosidasius. We engineered P. thermoglucosidasius to be strictly dependent for its growth on methanol assimilation via the core of the highly efficient ribulose monophosphate (RuMP) cycle, while co-assimilating ribose. Surprisingly, this did not require heterologous expression of RuMP enzymes. Instead, by laboratory evolution we awakened latent, native enzyme activities to form the core of the RuMP cycle. We obtained fast methylotrophic growth in which ~17% of biomass was strictly obtained from methanol. This work lays the foundation for developing a versatile thermophilic bioproduction platform based on renewable methanol.
PXD050476	40246814	USP9X integrates TGF-beta and hypoxia signalings to promote ovarian cancer chemoresistance via HIF-2alpha-maintained stemness. 	USP9X coordinates TGF-beta and hypoxia signalings to promote ovarian cancer chemoresistance via maintaining cancer stem cells	AP-MS, HIF-2alpha, USP9X	Widespread intraperitoneal metastases and chemoresistance render ovarian cancer the leading cause of gynecological malignancy-related deaths, wherein TGF-beta signaling plays the pivotal role by promoting cancer stem cells (CSCs) activity. The activation mechanism and key protumorigeneic events downstream of TGF-beta signaling remain incompletely understood. Here, we identify hypoxic tumor microenvironment as an initiator of TGF-beta signaling to promote HIF-2alpha positive CSC-mediated chemoresistance in high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSOC). Mechanistically, deubiquitinase USP9X, as a TGF-beta downstream effector, stabilizes HIF-2a in a hydroxylation- and ubiquitylation-dependent manner, thus promoting stemness reprogramming. Hypoxia and TGF-beta signals converge on USP9X-HIF-2a axis via multi-level regulations, which in turn facilitates Smad/HIF responses. Clinically, USP9X expression correlates with TGF-beta signatures, CSCs characteristics, EMT behaviors, and chemotherapy responsiveness, along with HIF-2a. Antagonizing USP9X efficiently represses tumor formation, metastasis, CSCs occurrence, while increasing chemosensitivity in orthotopic tumors, patient-derived xenograft (PDX), organoid, and chemoresistant cell models, in part via restricting TGF-beta and hypoxia activities. This study deciphers the critical role of hypoxic niche in stimulating TGF-beta signaling, and a downstream USP9X-HIF-2a proteostatic regulatory axis in priming the HGSOC stemness, thereby provides novel targeting venues to counteract TGF-beta signaling in CSCs and meliorate clinical chemoresistance.
PXD052135	40246839	Mitochondrial complexity is regulated at ER-mitochondria contact sites via PDZD8-FKBP8 tethering. 	Proximity biotinylation of PDZD8-TurboID KI HeLa cells	HeLa, PDZD8, TurboID	Mitochondria-ER membrane contact sites (MERCS) represent a fundamental ultrastructural feature underlying unique biochemistry and physiology in eukaryotic cells. The ER protein PDZD8 is required for the formation of MERCS in many cell types, however, its tethering partner on the outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) is currently unknown. Here we identify the OMM protein FKBP8 as the tethering partner of PDZD8 using a combination of unbiased proximity proteomics, CRISPR-Cas9 endogenous protein tagging, Cryo-electron tomography, and correlative light-electron microscopy. Single molecule tracking reveals highly dynamic diffusion properties of PDZD8 along the ER membrane with significant pauses and captures at MERCS. Overexpression of FKBP8 is sufficient to narrow the ER-OMM distance, whereas independent versus combined deletions of these two proteins demonstrate their interdependence for MERCS formation. Furthermore, PDZD8 enhances mitochondrial complexity in a FKBP8-dependent manner. Our results identify a novel ER-mitochondria tethering complex that regulates mitochondrial morphology in mammalian cells.
PXD050322	40246979	Induced proximity to PML protects TDP-43 from aggregation via SUMO-ubiquitin networks. 	Interactome of Flag-TDP-43, Flag-SUMO2-TDP-43 and Flag-4xSUMO2-TDP-43	TDP-43 SUMO	The established role of cytosolic and nuclear inclusions of TDP-43 in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders has multiplied efforts to understand mechanisms that control TDP-43 aggregation and has spurred searches for approaches limiting this process. Formation and clearance of TDP-43 aggregates are controlled by an intricate interplay of cellular proteostasis systems that involve post-translational modifications and frequently rely on spatial control. We demonstrate that attachment of the ubiquitin-like SUMO2 modifier compartmentalizes TDP-43 in promyelocytic leukemia protein (PML) nuclear bodies and limits the aggregation of TDP-43 in response to proteotoxic stress. Exploiting this pathway through proximity-inducing recruitment of TDP-43 to PML triggers a SUMOylation-ubiquitylation cascade protecting TDP-43 from stress-induced insolubility. The protective function of PML is mediated by ubiquitylation in conjunction with the p97 disaggregase. Altogether, we demonstrate that SUMO-ubiquitin networks protect cells from insoluble TDP-43 inclusions and propose the functionalization of PML as a potential future therapeutic avenue countering aggregation.
PXD057492	40247289	Usutu virus NS4A induces autophagy and is targeted by the selective autophagy receptor p62/SQSTM1 for degradation. 	Usutu virus NS4A induces autophagy and is targeted by the selective autophagy receptor p62/SQSTM1 for degradation	NS4A, Usutu virus, autophagy, orthoflavivirus, p62	Usutu virus (USUV) is an emerging orthoflavivirus, which mainly affects birds but in rare cases can cause severe neuroinvasive disease in humans. The virus relies on a multitude of host cell proteins, molecules and cellular processes for its replication, and must subvert host antiviral responses to establish a successful infection. Studying the complex network of virus-host protein interactions by proteomics approaches can therefore provide new insights in the replication cycle of USUV and its pathogenesis. We have previously shown that the USUV protein NS4A acts as an antagonist of the antiviral interferon response, and here we further map the host interaction partners of USUV NS4A using proximity labeling coupled to mass spectrometry. The resulting NS4A interactome revealed many host proteins involved in the autophagy pathway. We showed that both USUV infection and overexpression of USUV NS4A can indeed induce the autophagy pathway. However, stimulation or inhibition of the autophagy pathway in general did not affect USUV replication. Therefore, we decided to specifically analyze the role of the selective autophagy receptor sequestosome 1 (p62/SQSTM1), since we identified this protein as an important interaction partner of USUV NS4A. We found that p62 is involved in the degradation of USUV NS4A. In agreement with this, the knockdown of p62 enhanced replication of USUV in A549 cells. P62 thus plays an antiviral role during USUV infection, although this antiviral effect might also be related to its functions outside the autophagy pathway, such as modulation of the immune response. In conclusion, this study showed that USUV NS4A induces autophagy and is then targeted by p62 for degradation by the autophagic machinery, uncovering a new role of p62 in the antiviral defense against USUV.
PXD047214	40247362	Nicotinamide mononucleotide promotes female germline stem cell proliferation by activating the H4K16ac-Hmgb1-Fyn-PLD signaling pathway through epigenetic remodeling. 	4D label-free acetylation-modified quantitative proteome of mouse FGSCs.	FGSCs, acetylation	BACKGROUND: Nicotinamide mononucleotide (NMN), an endogenous nucleotide essential for various physiological processes, has an unclear role and regulatory mechanisms in female germline stem cell (FGSC) development. RESULTS: We demonstrate that NMN significantly enhances FGSC viability and proliferation. Quantitative acetylation proteomics revealed that NMN markedly increases the acetylation of histone H4 at lysine 16 (H4K16ac). Subsequent chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) and RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) identified high mobility group box 1 (Hmgb1) as a downstream target of H4K16ac, a finding further validated by ChIP-qPCR. Knockdown of Hmgb1 reduced FGSC proliferation by disrupting cell cycle progression, inducing apoptosis, and decreasing chromatin accessibility. High-throughput chromosome conformation capture (Hi-C) analysis showed that Hmgb1 knockdown induced A/B compartment switching, increased the number of topologically associating domains (TADs), and decreased chromatin loop formation in FGSCs. Notably, the chromatin loop at the promoter region of Fyn proto-oncogene (Fyn) disappeared following Hmgb1 knockdown. ChIP-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter assays further confirmed the interaction between Hmgb1 and the Fyn promoter. Importantly, Fyn overexpression reversed the inhibitory effects of Hmgb1 knockdown on FGSC proliferation. Proteomic analysis suggested this rescue was mediated through the phospholipase D (PLD) signaling pathway, as Fyn overexpression selectively enhanced the phosphorylation of PLD1 at threonine 147 without affecting serine 561. Furthermore, treatment with 5-fluoro-2-indolyldechlorohaloamide, a PLD inhibitor, nullified the pro-proliferative effects of Fyn overexpression. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reveal that NMN promotes FGSC proliferation by activating the H4K16ac-Hmgb1-Fyn-PLD signaling pathway through epigenetic remodeling. These results deepen our understanding of FGSC proliferation and highlight potential therapeutic avenues for advancing FGSC applications in reproductive medicine.
PXD061915	40247443	Proteomics Reveals Increased Periostin in Synovial Fluid From Canine and Human Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury. 	Proteomics Reveals Increased Periostin in Synovial Fluid from Canine and Human Anterior Cruciate Ligament Injury	ACL, alpha-2-macroglobulin, canine, osteoarthritis, periostin	Posttraumatic osteoarthritis (PTOA) is a common sequela to anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injury in humans and dogs. Identification of conserved targets between species may hasten biomarker identification and therapeutic development. To identify differentially regulated synovial fluid (SF) proteins in ACL injury, SF samples were collected from knees with ACL injury or control knees (n = 8 per species) in human and dog patients. The SF proteome was evaluated using nano-scale reverse-phase chromatography and tandem mass spectrometry. Associations between proteins and ACL injury were analyzed in both species. Immunoassays were used to validate key proteins identified via mass spectrometry, including periostin, alpha-2-macroglublin, and lubricin, in additional SF samples (dog: n = 57 ACL, n = 31 controls; human: n = 20 ACL, n = 15 advanced OA) and plasma samples (human: n = 18 ACL, n = 15 advanced OA, and n = 12 controls). Periostin was the most upregulated SF protein (log2 fold change) in both dogs (2.6) and humans (3.5) with ACL injury, followed by complement C1q (2.3) and alpha-2-macroglobulin (1.8) in dogs and fibrinogen (1.1) and alpha-2-macroglobulin (1.1) in humans. Most downregulated proteins included serum amyloid A1 (-1.9) and aggrecan (-1.8) in dogs and carbonic anhydrase 2 (-3.2) and hemoglobin subunit beta (-2.8) in humans. Approximately 60% of proteins detected were shared between species, and immunoregulatory and macromolecular transport proteins were the most common families. Findings in both species support further investigation into periostin as a potential biomarker or therapeutic target for joint injury and the use of spontaneous ACL injury in dogs as a translational large animal model for human ACL injury.
PXD059538	40247455	Sustained Tenascin-C Expression Drives Neointimal Hyperplasia and Promotes Aortocaval Fistula Failure. 	Proteomic Profiling of AVF Remodeling in Mice	AVF	End-stage kidney disease (ESKD) impacts over 740,000 individuals in the U.S., with many patients relying on arteriovenous fistulae (AVF) for hemodialysis due to superior patency and reduced infections. However, AVF patency is reduced by thrombosis and neointimal hyperplasia, yielding a one-year patency of only 40-50%. AVF were created in wildtype (WT) and Tnc knockout (Tnc(-/-)) mice, and proteomic analyses were conducted to identify protein changes between sham and AVF WT tissue. Immunofluorescence and Western blot assays compared venous tissue from WT and Tnc(-/-) mice. In vitro studies using human umbilical vein endothelial cells and human umbilical vein smooth muscle cells examined TNC-siRNA effects on thrombomodulin (THBD) and NF-kappaB. Macrophages from WT and Tnc(-/-) mice were assessed for anti-inflammatory phenotype polarization and tissue factor expression. TNC expression was spatially and temporally regulated in WT mice with AVF, and TNC colocalized with matrix remodeling but not with THBD expression; TNC expression was downregulated in patent AVF but sustained in occluded AVF, both in WT mice and human AVF specimens. Tnc(-/-) mice had reduced AVF patency, less wall thickening, and increased thrombosis, with increased THBD expression. In vitro, TNC-siRNA increased THBD and reduced NF-kappaB activation. Macrophages from Tnc(-/-) mice showed increased anti-inflammatory macrophage polarization and tissue factor expression, facilitating thrombosis. Sustained TNC expression drives neointimal hyperplasia and AVF failure by promoting a pro-thrombotic, inflammatory microenvironment. Targeting TNC pathways may enhance AVF patency and improve dialysis outcomes.
PXD053838	40248869	Hypoxic Preconditioning Enhances the Potential of Mesenchymal Stem Cells to Treat Neonatal Hypoxic-Ischemic Brain Injury. 	Proteomics of hypoxic mesenchymal stem cells	MSCs, hypoxia	BACKGROUND: Neonatal hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury is one of the leading causes of long-term neurological morbidity in newborns. Current treatment options for HI brain injury are limited, but mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) therapy is a promising strategy to boost neuroregeneration after injury. Optimization strategies to further enhance the potential of MSCs are under development. The current study aimed to test the potency of hypoxic preconditioning of MSCs to enhance the therapeutic efficacy in a mouse model of neonatal HI injury. METHODS: HI was induced on postnatal day 9 in C57Bl/6 mouse pups. MSCs were cultured under hypoxic (hypoxic-preconditioned MSCs [HP-MSCs], 1% O2) or normoxic-control (normoxic-preconditioned MSCs, 21% O2) conditions for 24 hours before use. At 10 days after HI, HP-MSCs, normoxic-preconditioned MSCs, or vehicle were intranasally administered. Gold nanoparticle-labeled MSCs were used to assess MSC migration 24 hours after intranasal administration. At 28 days post-HI, lesion size, sensorimotor outcome, and neuroinflammation were assessed by hematoxylin and eosin staining, cylinder rearing task, and IBA1 staining, respectively. In vitro, the effect of HP-MSCs was studied on transwell migration, neural stem cell differentiation and microglia activation, and the MSC intracellular proteomic content was profiled using quantitative LC-MS/ms. RESULTS: Intranasally administered HP-MSCs were superior to normoxic-preconditioned MSCs in reducing lesion size and sensorimotor impairments post-HI. Moreover, hypoxic preconditioning enhanced MSC migration in an in vitro set-up, and in vivo to the lesioned hemisphere after intranasal application. In addition, HP-MSCs enhanced neural stem cell differentiation into more complex neurons in vitro but had similar anti-inflammatory effects compared with normoxic-preconditioned MSCs. Lastly, hypoxic preconditioning led to elevated abundances of proteins in MSCs related to extracellular matrix remodeling. CONCLUSIONS: This study shows for the first time that hypoxic preconditioning enhanced the therapeutic efficacy of MSC therapy in a mouse model of neonatal HI brain injury by increasing the migratory and neuroregenerative capacity of MSCs.
PXD025390	40249643	Maternal Adiponectin Decreases Placenta Nutrient Transport in Mice. 	Maternal Adiponectin Decreases Placenta NutrientTransport in Mice	fetal liver, high-fat diet, phosphopeptide, protein expression	Women with obesity who develop gestational diabetes have lower serum adiponectin throughout pregnancy, suggesting that low levels impair the ability to handle metabolic challenges during pregnancy. The placenta expresses adiponectin receptors, and adiponectin could therefore indirectly affect the developing fetus. Here, we aimed to investigate how elevated maternal and fetal adiponectin affect placental function, fetal growth, and metabolism during pregnancy in normal-weight and obese mice. Wild-type (wt) and adiponectin-overexpressing (APNtg) mice were fed normal chow or a high fat/high sucrose (HF/HS) diet 8 weeks before and during pregnancy to induce obesity. Mice were euthanized and dissected on gestational day 18.5. Lipid, glucose, and amino acid tracers were administered to the obese pregnant dams to study nutrient uptake. The effects of elevated adiponectin on fetal liver and placental function were further investigated using global proteomics. A 40%-50% increase in serum adiponectin reduced fetal growth in dams fed a HF/HS diet, but not a normal chow diet. The uptake of glucose, lipid, and amino acid tracer was lower, along with decreased expression of several amino acid transporters in the placenta of APNtg dams on HF/HS diet. This suggests that adiponectin decreases placental transfer of nutrients. Livers of fetuses from APNtg dams showed downregulated lipid and amino acid metabolic pathways possibly reflecting an energy deficit. In conclusion, elevated serum adiponectin in obese dams reduced the placental transfer of nutrients, resulting in fetal growth restriction and altered fetal liver function. Maternal adiponectin levels were the main driver of placenta function. While this could be beneficial for pregnancy-related complications like babies born large for their gestation age, our study indicates that adiponectin should be in an optimal concentration range, neither too low nor too high, to prevent these complications.
PXD062129	40251147	Structural mechanism of FusB-mediated rescue from fusidic acid inhibition of protein synthesis. 	Structural mechanism of FusB-mediated rescue from fusidic acid inhibition of protein synthesis	FusB, Fusidic acid, cryo-EM, elongation factor G, ribosome	The antibiotic resistance protein FusB rescues protein synthesis from inhibition by fusidic acid (FA), which locks elongation factor G (EF-G) to the ribosome after GTP hydrolysis. Here, we present time-resolved single-particle cryo-EM structures explaining the mechanism of FusB-mediated rescue. FusB binds to the FA-trapped EF-G on the ribosome, causing large-scale conformational changes of EF-G that break interactions with the ribosome, tRNA, and mRNA. This leads to dissociation of EF-G from the ribosome, followed by FA release. We also observe two independent binding sites of FusB on the classical-state ribosome, overlapping with the binding site of EF-G to each of the ribosomal subunits, yet not inhibiting tRNA delivery. The affinity of FusB to the ribosome and the concentration of FusB in S. aureus during FusB-mediated resistance support that direct binding of FusB to ribosomes could occur in the cell. Our results reveal an intricate resistance mechanism involving specific interactions of FusB with both EF-G and the ribosome, and a non-canonical release pathway of EF-G.
PXD061483	40251151	Selective identification of epigenetic regulators at methylated genomic sites by SelectID. 	Selective identification of epigenetic regulators at methylated genomic sites by SelectID	SelectID at Chr9S	DNA methylation is a significant component in proximal chromatin regulation and plays crucial roles in regulating gene expression and maintaining the repressive state of retrotransposon elements. However, accurate profiling of the proteomics which simultaneously identifies specific DNA sequences and their associated epigenetic modifications remains a challenge. Here, we report a strategy termed SelectID (selective profiling of epigenetic control at genome targets identified by dCas9), which introduces methylated DNA binding domain into dCas9-mediated proximity labeling system to enable in situ protein capture at repetitive elements with 5-methylcytosine (5mC) modifications. SelectID is demonstrated as feasible as dCas9-TurboID system at specific DNA methylation regions, such as the chromosome 9 satellite. Using SelectID, we successfully identify CHD4 as potential repressors of methylated long interspersed nuclear element-1 (LINE-1) retrotransposon through direct binding at the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of young LINE-1 elements. Overall, our SelectID approach has opened up avenues for uncovering potential regulators of specific DNA regions with DNA methylation, which will greatly facilitate future studies on epigenetic regulation.
PXD057041	40251385	Multi-omics analysis of two rat models reveals potential role of vesicle transport and autophagy in right ventricular remodeling. 	Proteomics Profile of right ventricular remodeling at compensatory stage	heart failure	Right ventricular failure as a severe consequence of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is an independent risk factor for poor prognosis, although the pathogenesis of right ventricular remodeling (RVR) remains unclear. Exploring the shared molecular pathways and key molecules in the right ventricle in monocrotaline (MCT) and pulmonary artery banding (PAB) rat models may reveal critical RVR mechanisms. Untargeted proteome and metabolome analysis were performed on the right ventricular myocardium of two RVR models (MCT-induced PAH rats and PAB-operated rats) to identify the altered proteins and metabolites, followed by validation using parallel reaction monitoring analysis and quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). The multi-omics profiles of MCT and PAB rat models were compared to explore the key dysregulated molecules and pathways in RVR. Our proteomics study identified 25 shared RVR-altered differentially expressed proteins. Multiple common biological pathways were identified between PAB and MCT rat models, encompassing myocardial remodeling and energy metabolism alternation, etc. Various molecules and pathways related to vesicle transport and autophagy were identified, including nidogen-1, the soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors (SNAREs) signaling pathway, and the microautophagy pathway (all previously unreported in RVR). Glycerophospholipid metabolism was the sole statistically significant common metabolic pathway enriched by metabolomics. Underreported biological processes, including vesicle transport and autophagy, may contribute to the pathophysiology of PAH-induced RVR.
PXD061060	40251448	Metabolic remodelling produces fumarate via the aspartate-argininosuccinate shunt in macrophages as an antiviral defence. 	Modification of Human MAVS protein	LC-MS, MAVS	Metabolic remodelling underpins macrophage effector functions in response to various stimuli, but the mechanisms involved are unclear. Here we report that viral-infection-induced inflammatory stimulation causes a rewiring of the urea cycle and the tricarboxylic acid cycle metabolism in macrophages to form a cyclic pathway called the aspartate-argininosuccinate (AAS) shunt. Using RNA sequencing, unbiased metabolomics and stable isotope tracing, we found that fumarate generated from the AAS shunt is driven by argininosuccinate synthase (ASS1) in the cytosol and potentiates inflammatory effects. Genetic ablation of ASS1 reduces intracellular fumarate levels and interferon-beta production, and mitochondrial respiration is also suppressed. Notably, viral challenge or fumarate esters enhance interferon-beta production via direct succination of the mitochondrial antiviral signalling protein and activation of the retinoic acid-inducible gene-I-like receptor signalling. In addition to the vesicular stomatitis virus, the Sendai virus and influenza A virus can also exert these effects. In addition, patients with Ebola virus disease have increased ASS1 expression and ASS1-deficient mice show suppressed macrophage interferon responses to vesicular stomatitis virus infection. These findings reveal that fumarate can be produced from the viral inflammation-induced AAS shunt and is essential for antiviral innate immunity.
PXD061251	40252727	SIRT3 functions as an eraser of histone H3K9 lactylation to modulate transcription for inhibiting the progression of esophageal cancer. 	SIRT3 functions as an eraser of histone H3K9 lactylation to modulate transcription for inhibiting the progression of esophageal cancer	Kindey, LC-MS	Lysine lactylation (Kla) links lactate metabolism to epigenetic regulation, playing a key role in modulation of gene expression in tumor and immune microenvironment. Our recent study shows that HBO1-mediated histone H3K9la activates the transcription of genes encoding tumorigenesis, suggesting the potential significance of intervening in this Kla site for tumor therapy. Evidence so far indicates that traditional deacetylases can catalyse the removal of Kla, however, the precise demodifying enzyme to histone H3K9la in vivo and functional consequence remain elusive. Herein, we combined an antibody-based proximity labeling approach with mass spectrometry analysis to identify SIRT3 as a major binder to histone H3K9la and showed the specific catalysis of SIRT3 for the removal of lactylation. Molecular docking further revealed the molecular mechanism of the binding of Histone H3K9la to SIRT3. More importantly, SIRT3 can specifically modulate gene transcription by regulating H3K9la, inhibiting the progression of esophageal squamous cancer cells (ESCC). Together, our work identifies the specific delactylase of H3K9la and reveals an H3K9la-mediated molecular mechanism catalysed by SIRT3 for gene transcription regulation in ESCC, and our findings provide an opportunity to investigate the physiological significance of Kla controlled by SIRT3 in cancer.
PXD058156	40253386	Temozolomide promotes glioblastoma stemness expression through senescence-associated reprogramming via HIF1alpha/HIF2alpha regulation. 	Temozolomide Induces Glioblastoma Dedifferentiation into Highly Malignant Stem-like Cells Through Senescence-Associated Reprogramming via HIF1alpha/HIF2alpha Regulation	glioblastoma, temozolomide	A critical challenge in glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) treatment is that tumors recurring after temozolomide (TMZ) therapy become more malignant, exhibiting increased invasiveness and stemness compared to the primary tumor. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. While the majority of GBM cells are eradicated by TMZ, a subset enters cell cycle arrest, adopts a senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP), and activates senescence-related signaling pathways. These cells eventually escape senescence, re-enter the cell cycle, and form aggregates exhibiting stem-like characteristics such as elevated stemness marker expression, enhanced colony formation, increased invasiveness, and resistance to chemotherapy. Furthermore, these aggregates promote the invasion and chemotherapy resistance of surrounding cells. Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA) and KEGG pathway analysis of miRNA and mRNA sequences revealed activation of hallmark hypoxia and HIF1 signaling pathways. The study demonstrated that HIF1alpha and HIF2alpha expression fluctuates during and after TMZ treatment. Knockout of HIF1alpha and HIF2alpha in GBM cells exposed to TMZ reduced the formation of senescent cells and stem-like aggregates. These findings challenge the efficacy of TMZ therapy by highlighting its role in inducing the process of cellular senescence, thereby contributing to the enhanced stemness and malignancy of recurrent GBM. The regulatory roles of HIF1alpha and HIF2alpha are emphasized, underscoring the necessity of preventing senescent cell formation and inhibiting HIF1alpha/HIF2alpha expression to improve therapeutic outcomes.
PXD057266	40254065	SysQuan: repurposing SILAC mice for the cost-effective absolute quantitation of the human proteome. 	SysQuan: repurposing SILAC mice for affordable absolute quantitation of the human proteome	SILAC, absolute quantitation, stable isotope, targeted proteomics	Relative quantitation, used by most MS-based proteomics laboratories to determine protein fold-changes, requires samples being processed and analyzed together for best comparability through minimizing batch differences. This limits the adoption of MS-based proteomics in population-wide studies, and the detection of subtle but relevant changes in heterogeneous samples. Absolute quantitation circumvents these limitations and enables comparison of results across laboratories, studies, and longitudinally. However, high costs of the essential stable isotope labeled (SIL) standards prevents widespread access and limits the number of quantifiable proteins. Our new approach, called "SysQuan", repurposes SILAC mouse tissues/biofluids as system-wide internal standards for matched human samples to enable absolute quantitation of, theoretically, two-thirds of the human proteome using 157,086 shared tryptic peptides, of which 73,901 with lysine on the c-terminus. We demonstrate that SysQuan enables quantification of 70% and 31% of the liver and plasma proteomes, respectively. We demonstrate for 14 metabolic proteins that abundant SIL mouse tissues enable cost-effective reverse absolute quantitation in, theoretically, 1000s of human samples. Moreover, 10,000s of light/heavy doublets in untargeted SysQuan datasets enable unique post-acquisition absolute quantitation. SysQuan empowers researchers to replace relative quantitation with affordable absolute quantitation at scale, making data comparable across laboratories, diseases and tissues, enabling completely novel study designs and increasing reusability of data in repositories.
PXD058989	40254638	Integrated multi-omics analysis and experimental verification reveal the involvement of the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway in myometrial fibrosis of adenomyosis. 	Proteomic Analysis Reveal Myometrial Fibrosis of Adenomyosis(Human,adenomyosis,tissue,LC-MSMS)	adenomyosis, tissue	Adenomyosis (AM) is characterized as a chronic and progressive disorder with limited therapeutic strategies available. Myometrial fibrosis is a prominent pathological feature of AM, yet the underlying molecular mechanisms remain elusive. The present study conducted a comparative analysis using proteomics and metabolomics to investigate myometrial fibrosis and its underlying mechanisms. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was utilized to analyze adenomyotic and normal myometrial tissues from ten AM patients who underwent hysterectomy with myometrial fibrosis confirmed by Masson staining. This analysis established comprehensive proteomic and metabolomic profiles of AM patients and revealed widespread alterations in the proteome and metabolome within normal and fibrotic myometrium. Key proteins and signaling pathways linked to myometrial fibrogenesis were identified based on proteomic data. The integrated analysis showed significant associations between proteomic and metabolomic data and highlighted the critical role of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway. Immunohistochemistry and Spearman's correlation analysis suggested a relationship between myometrial fibrosis and the metaplasia of myometrial stromal cells into myofibroblasts. Subsequent experiments identified crucial proteins and signaling pathways involved in myometrial fibrosis, indicating an association with the activation of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway in myofibroblasts. Notably, PI3K/AKT inhibitors may contribute to the effective alleviation of myometrial fibrosis. This study is the first to demonstrate that myometrial fibrosis represents a critical pathological mechanism in AM through multi-omics methods and to elucidate the crucial role of the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway in this process. These findings provide valuable insights into the pathophysiology of AM and suggest antifibrotic treatment as a promising therapeutic strategy.
PXD061039	40254688	Conversion of Ku80 K568 crotonylation to SUMOylation facilitates DNA non-homologous end joining and cancer radioresistance. 	Ku80 lysine crotonylation conversion to SUMOylation facilitates DNA non-homologous end joining and cellular resistance to radiation	DNA double-strand break repair, DNA-PK holoenzyme assembly, Ku80, SUMOylation, crotonylation, radioresistance	Chemo-/radioresistance of malignant tumors hampers cancer control and increases patient mortality. Efficient repair of damaged DNA is critical for the maintenance of genomic integrity and fidelity of genetic information. In reverse, increased DNA repair capability in cancer cells contributes to chemo-/radioresistance of malignant tumors. DNA double-strand break (DSB) is the most serious DNA damage and is also the principal molecular basis of radiotherapy. Upon DNA damage, the Ku80 is recruited and forms a critical DNA-PK complex at the DSB sites with Ku70 and the catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) to initiate DNA repair. How DNA-PK is assembled and activated is not fully understood. Based on the identification of radiation-reduced Ku80 K568 crotonylation through quantitative global lysine crotonylome analysis, we reveal that Ku80 K568 is crotonylated by p300-CBP-associated factor (PCAF). Upon DNA damage, the K568cr is decrotonylated by HDAC8 (Histone deacetylase 8). Decrotonylation of K568cr empties this site for the subsequent SUMOylation of Ku80 by CBX4. The conversion of Ku80 from K568 crotonylation to SUMOylation facilitates the assembly of DNA-PK complex and autophosphorylation of DNA-PKcs S2056, consequently activating the DSB repair. Moreover, mutation disrupting the post-translational modification (PTM) of Ku80 K568 site sensitizes cancer cells to radiotherapy in tumor-bearing nude mice models. This study elucidates the conversion model between two different forms of PTMs in the regulation of DNA-PK complex assembly and DSB repair, highlighting this model's potential in controlling chemo-/radioresistance of malignant tumors, as well as expands the atlas of therapeutic targets.
PXD056465	40256639	Establishment of minimum protein standards for Mycobacterium tuberculosis-derived extracellular vesicles through comparison of EV enrichment methods. 	Establishment of Minimum Protein Standards for Mycobacterium tuberculosis-Derived Extracellular Vesicles through Comparison of EV Enrichment Methods	Bruker timsTOF Pro, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, extracellular vesicles, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry	Mycobacterium tuberculosis extracellular vesicles (MEV) have been described as having potent immunological activities that are both beneficial and harmful to the host. Key to understanding this conflicting information is the proteomic characterization of MEVs. However, there is neither a standard for a purification method nor markers to assess relative purity and quality of MEVs. In this study, we purified MEVs by four different methods (simple ultracentrifugation, differential density gradient-based ultracentrifugation, qEV size exclusion chromatography, and Capto(TM)Core size exclusion chromatography) and assessed the variability of MEV characteristics (size, concentration, appearance, purity, and protein content) amongst isolation methods. The vesicle appearance and size were consistent across all methods; however variability was found between and within all methods, with simple ultracentrifugation demonstrating the most variability both in reproducibility and purity. Protein concentration and content, and particle yield and purity, varied amongst all methods. The two size exclusion chromatography-based methods were more technically reproducible than either ultracentrifugation-based method, while qEV size exclusion chromatography and differential density gradient ultracentrifugation afforded MEV samples of the highest purity. Nonetheless, all methods had 7 proteins in common, the Sec-independent membrane bound twin-arginine translocase TatA (Rv2094c), the periplasmic phosphate-binding lipoprotein PstS3 (Rv0928), the heparin binding hemagglutinin HBHA (Rv0475), lipoprotein antigens LprG (Rv1411c) and LpqH (Rv3763), a member of the conserved 13E12 repeat protein family P95201 (Rv0393), and the tuberculin related peptide Rv0431 (P96277), suggesting the use of these proteins as qualitative markers of MEVs versus contaminants, in addition to size and appearance criteria, to benefit reproducibility and consensus for ongoing MEV studies. Supplementary Information: The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.1186/s44350-025-00003-8.
PXD053295	40257739	Phosphoproteomics Uncovers Exercise Intensity-Specific Skeletal Muscle Signaling Networks Underlying High-Intensity Interval Training in Healthy Male Participants. 	Phosphoproteomics of High Intensity Interval Training	human skeletal muscle exercise phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND: In response to exercise, protein kinases and signaling networks are engaged to blunt homeostatic threats generated by acute contraction-induced increases in skeletal muscle energy and oxygen demand, as well as serving roles in the adaptive response to chronic exercise training to blunt future disruptions to homeostasis. High-intensity interval training (HIIT) is a time-efficient exercise modality that induces superior or similar health-promoting skeletal muscle and whole-body adaptations compared with prolonged, moderate-intensity continuous training (MICT). However, the skeletal muscle signaling pathways underlying HIIT's exercise intensity-specific adaptive responses are unknown. OBJECTIVE: We mapped human muscle kinases, substrates, and signaling pathways activated/deactivated by an acute bout of HIIT versus work-matched MICT. METHODS: In a randomized crossover trial design (Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry number ACTRN12619000819123; prospectively registered 6 June 2019), ten healthy male participants (age 25.4 +/- 3.2 years; BMI 23.5 +/- 1.6 kg/m(2);  V . O 2 max  37.9 +/- 5.2 ml/kg/min, mean values +/- SD) completed a single bout of HIIT and MICT cycling separated by >= 10 days and matched for total work (67.9 +/- 10.2 kJ) and duration (10 min). Mass spectrometry-based phosphoproteomic analysis of muscle biopsy samples collected before, during (5 min), and immediately following (10 min) each exercise bout, to map acute temporal signaling responses to HIIT and MICT, identified and quantified 14,931 total phosphopeptides, corresponding to 8509 phosphorylation sites. RESULTS: Bioinformatic analyses uncovered exercise intensity-specific signaling networks, including > 1000 differentially phosphorylated sites (+/- 1.5-fold change; adjusted P < 0.05; >= 3 participants) after 5 min and 10 min HIIT and/or MICT relative to rest. After 5 and 10 min, 92 and 348 sites were differentially phosphorylated by HIIT, respectively, versus MICT. Plasma lactate concentrations throughout HIIT were higher than MICT (P < 0.05), and correlation analyses identified > 3000 phosphosites significantly correlated with lactate (q < 0.05) including top functional phosphosites underlying metabolic regulation. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, this first global map of the work-matched HIIT versus MICT signaling networks has revealed rapid exercise intensity-specific regulation of kinases, substrates, and pathways in human skeletal muscle that may contribute to HIIT's skeletal muscle adaptations and health-promoting effects.  Preprint: The preprint version of this work is available on medRxiv, https://doi.org/10:1101/2024.07.11.24310302 .
PXD059706	40258814	APOE4 impairs macrophage lipophagy and promotes demyelination of spiral ganglion neurons in mouse cochleae. 	Proteomics of APOE3 and APOE4 BMDMs	APOE, BMDMs, isoforms	The ApoE-epsilon4 gene is a well-established genetic risk factor for neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis, which are characterized by axonal demyelination in the central nervous system. Recent studies have implicated ApoE-epsilon4 in age-related hearing loss (ARHL), suggesting a potential role of APOE4 isoform in peripheral nervous system degeneration. However, the role of APOE4 in ARHL are still unclear. In this study, we explored the potential role of APOE4 in axonal demyelination of spiral ganglion neurons (SGNs). ApoE-epsilon4/epsilon4 (APOE4) and ApoE-epsilon3/epsilon3 (APOE3) mice were used to characterize SGNs. The effect of APOE4 on phagocytosis and autophagy as well as intracellular cholesterol level was evaluated in resident cochlear macrophages (RCMs) and mouse bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs). The results showed that significant axonal demyelination was observed in SGNs of 10-month-old APOE4 mice, accompanied by the presence of myelin debris engulfed by RCMs. Meanwhile, inhibited phagocytosis of myelin debris and impaired lipophagy were detected in APOE4 RCMs and APOE4 BMDMs with an aberrant accumulation of lipid droplets (LDs), which could be reversed by trehalose treatment. This study provided a deep insight into the pathogenesis of APOE4-induced axonal demyelination of SGNs associated with the impaired lipophagy in RCMs, which helped to elucidate the underlying mechanism of ApoE-epsilon4 in ARHL.
PXD056236	40260199	Proteomic Analysis of Retinas in a Rat Model of High-Fat Diet-Induced Type 2 Diabetes: Implications of Interventional Targets for Nonproliferative Diabetic Retinopathy. 	Retinal proteomic study of high-fat diet-induced T2DM model: exploring the interventional targets of nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy	Diabetes retinopathy, Fatty acid metabolism, TMT proteomics, rat model of T2DM	Purpose: This study aimed to establish a high-fat diet (HFD)-induced rat model of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and employed tandem mass tag (TMT) proteomics to search for novel interventional targets for nonproliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR). Patients and Methods: Six-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into a T2DM group fed a HFD and a normal group (NOR group) fed normal chow. After 6 w, the T2DM group was confirmed to have impaired glucose tolerance and was intraperitoneally injected with a single small dose of streptozotocin (STZ, 30 mg/kg), and blood glucose levels were monitored. The HFD was maintained for another 6 w, and an Evans blue assay and a dark-adapted electroretinogram (ERG) were conducted. Rat retinas were collected for morphology analysis, TMT proteomics analysis, and Western blotting. The expression patterns of selected differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were validated in rat retinas via Western blotting and in aqueous humor from NPDR patients via slot blotting. Results: After the 12-w HFD and STZ injection, the rats presented typical symptoms of T2DM. The retinas of T2DM rats presented pathological features of NPDR, including compromised scotopic ERGs, thinning of retinal layers, increased apoptosis and vascular leakage in the retina. Proteomic analysis identified DEPs and revealed profound dyslipidemia in T2DM rat retinas. The significant upregulation of the FABP3, TINAGL1, and COL4A3 proteins was validated in the retinas of the rats by Western blotting and in the aqueous humor of the NPDR patients by slot blotting. Conclusion: In a rat model of HFD-induced T2DM that is consistent with the natural history and pathological features of NPDR, proteomics and bioinformatics analyses identified FABP3, TINAGL1, and COL4A3 as the 3 key upregulated proteins in retinas for the first time. These findings are supported by technical and clinical validations and provide novel targets for NPDR intervention.
PXD055156	40261935	Proteostasis landscapes of cystic fibrosis variants reveal drug response vulnerability. 	Proteostasis Landscapes of Selective versus Poorly Responsive CFTR Variants Reveals Structural Vulnerabilities to Correction	AP-MS, CF, CFTR, VX-445, interactomics	Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a lethal genetic disorder caused by variants in CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR). Many variants are treatable with correctors, which enhance the folding and trafficking of CFTR. However, approximately 3% of persons with CF harbor poorly responsive variants. Here, we used affinity purification mass spectrometry proteomics to profile the protein homeostasis (proteostasis) changes of CFTR variants during correction to assess modulated interactions with protein folding and maturation pathways. Responsive variant interactions converged on similar proteostasis pathways during correction. In contrast, poorly responsive variants subtly diverged, revealing a partial restoration of protein quality control surveillance and partial correction. Computational structural modeling showed that corrector VX-445 failed to confer enough NBD1 stability to poor responders. NBD1 secondary stabilizing mutations rescued poorly responsive variants, revealing structural vulnerabilities in NBD1 required for treating poor responders. Our study provides a framework for discerning the underlying protein quality control and structural defects of CFTR variants not reached with existing drugs to expand therapeutics to all susceptible CFTR variants.
PXD053026	40261956	Structural robustness and temporal vulnerability of the starvation-responsive metabolic network in healthy and obese mouse liver. 	Phosphoproteome data of WT and ob/ob mice liver during starvation	WT, liver, ob/ob, phosphoproteome, starvation, time-course	Adaptation to starvation is a multimolecular and temporally ordered process. We sought to elucidate how the healthy liver regulates various molecules in a temporally ordered manner during starvation and how obesity disrupts this process. We used multiomic data collected from the plasma and livers of wild-type and leptin-deficient obese (ob/ob) mice at multiple time points during starvation to construct a starvation-responsive metabolic network that included responsive molecules and their regulatory relationships. Analysis of the network structure showed that in wild-type mice, the key molecules for energy homeostasis, ATP and AMP, acted as hub molecules to regulate various metabolic reactions in the network. Although neither ATP nor AMP was responsive to starvation in ob/ob mice, the structural properties of the network were maintained. In wild-type mice, the molecules in the network were temporally ordered through metabolic processes coordinated by hub molecules, including ATP and AMP, and were positively or negatively coregulated. By contrast, both temporal order and coregulation were disrupted in ob/ob mice. These results suggest that the metabolic network that responds to starvation was structurally robust but temporally disrupted by the obesity-associated loss of responsiveness of the hub molecules. In addition, we propose how obesity alters the response to intermittent fasting.
PXD061921	40263146	Probing substrate water access through the O1 channel of Photosystem II by single site mutations and membrane inlet mass spectrometry. 	Probing substrate water access through the O1 channel of Photosystem II by single site mutations and membrane inlet mass spectrometry	O1 channel, Thermosynechococcus vestitus, photosystem II	Light-driven water oxidation by photosystem II sustains life on Earth by providing the electrons and protons for the reduction of CO2 to carbohydrates and the molecular oxygen we breathe. The inorganic core of the oxygen evolving complex is made of the earth-abundant elements manganese, calcium and oxygen (Mn4CaO5 cluster), and is situated in a binding pocket that is connected to the aqueous surrounding via water-filled channels that allow water intake and proton egress. Recent serial crystallography and infrared spectroscopy studies performed with PSII isolated from Thermosynechococcus vestitus (T. vestitus) support that one of these channels, the O1 channel, facilitates water access to the Mn4CaO5 cluster during its S2-->S3 and S3-->S4-->S0 state transitions, while a subsequent CryoEM study concluded that this channel is blocked in the cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803, questioning the role of the O1 channel in water delivery. Employing site-directed mutagenesis we modified the two O1 channel bottleneck residues D1-E329 and CP43-V410 (T. vestitus numbering) and probed water access and substrate exchange via time resolved membrane inlet mass spectrometry. Our data demonstrates that water reaches the Mn4CaO5 cluster via the O1 channel in both wildtype and mutant PSII. In addition, the detailed analysis provides functional insight into the intricate protein-water-cofactor network near the Mn4CaO5 cluster that includes the pentameric, near planar 'water wheel' of the O1 channel.
PXD061732	40263249	Glucosidase alpha neutral C promotes influenza virus replication by inhibiting proteosome-dependent degradation of hemagglutinin. 	Glucosidase Alpha Neutral C Promotes Influenza Virus Replication by Inhibiting Proteosome-Dependent Degradation of Hemagglutinin	GANC, HA, infuenza	The H7N9 influenza virus poses a significant threat to human health, and the mechanism by which it infects humans remains incompletely understood. Our investigation has unveiled significant insights into the role of glucosidase alpha, neutral C (GANC) gene in human H7N9 infections. Through whole genome sequencing (WGS), we identified five low-frequency functional and heterozygous variants of GANC strongly associated with human H7N9 infections compared to healthy controls. Furthermore, we observed a reduction in mRNA and protein expression of GANC following H7N9 virus infection in vitro and in vivo. Subsequent experiments involving GANC demonstrated the promotion of H7N9 virus replication in a stable strain with GANC overexpression. Conversely, GANC knockdown exhibited the ability to restrict influenza A virus (IAV) replication, including H7N9, H9N2, and H1N1, both in vitro and in vivo. This inhibition was mediated by GANC's ability to promote the degradation of H7N9 hemagglutinin (HA). Moreover, we discovered that GANC knockdown facilitated the degradation of HA in a proteasome-dependent manner. The inhibition caused by GANC knockdown was mediated by promoting direct binding of HA with the proteasome 26S subunit, non-ATPase, 1 (PSMD1) and PSMD2. All five variants in the GANC gene reduced their ability to promote H7N9 virus replication, and also diminished the levels of GANC-induced HA protein expression. Our findings revealed a novel mechanism by which GANC inhibits the proteasome-dependent degradation of HA to promote H7N9 virus replication. These results suggest that GANC may play an important role in IAV replication.
PXD052847	40263265	Rapid assay development for low input targeted proteomics using a versatile linear ion trap. 	Linear Ion Trap Global to Targeted Proteomics: A workflow for targeted proteomics assay development using a versatile linear ion trap	DDA, DIA, Data-independent acquisition, High pH reverse phase fractionation, Ion Trap, Stellar MS, global proteomics, offline fractionation, parallel reaction monitoring, prm, targeted proteomics	Advances in proteomics and mass spectrometry enable the study of limited cell populations, where high-mass accuracy instruments are typically required. While triple quadrupoles offer fast and sensitive low-mass specificity measurements, these instruments are effectively restricted to targeted proteomics. Linear ion traps (LITs) offer a versatile, cost-effective alternative capable of both targeted and global proteomics. Here, we describe a workflow using a hybrid quadrupole-LIT instrument that rapidly develops targeted proteomics assays from global data-independent acquisition (DIA) measurements without high-mass accuracy. Using an automated software approach for scheduling parallel reaction monitoring assays (PRM), we show consistent quantification across three orders of magnitude in a matched-matrix background. We demonstrate measuring low-level proteins such as transcription factors and cytokines with quantitative linearity below two orders of magnitude in a 1 ng background proteome without requiring stable isotope-labeled standards. From a 1 ng sample, we found clear consistency between proteins in subsets of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells measured using high dimensional flow cytometry and LIT-based proteomics. Based on these results, we believe hybrid quadrupole-LIT instruments represent a valuable solution to expanding mass spectrometry in a wide variety of laboratory settings.
PXD051951	40263346	Non-invasive molecular species identification using spider silk proteomics. 	Proteome of spider silk and web in captive environments	Reeled spider silk, Spider silk, Spider web	Accurate species identification is essential in biology, ecology, medicine, and agriculture, yet traditional methods relying on morphological characteristics often fail due to phenotypic plasticity and cryptic species. These limitations are particularly pronounced in small organisms with minimal distinguishing features. DNA barcoding has become a popular alternative; however, it requires invasive tissue sampling, making it unsuitable for delicate or rare organisms like insects and spiders. To address this challenge, we propose a non-invasive molecular method using proteomic analysis focused on species-specific protein sequences in spider silk, offering a viable solution for species identification without harming specimens. We developed a universal silk-dissolving method, followed by sequence similarity analysis to classify species into those identifiable at the species level and those distinguishable only to a group of closely related species. A bioinformatics pipeline was established to analyze peptide sequences, achieving 96% accuracy across 15 spider species, even in the presence of contaminants. This technique complements DNA barcoding and can be extended to other organisms producing biological materials. It holds promise in pest management, medical diagnostics, and improving public health by enabling accurate species identification without invasive procedures.
PXD060801	40265418	Cell-Type-Specific Heat-Induced Changes in the Proteomes of Pollen Mother Cells and Microspores Provide New Insights into Tomato Pollen Production Under Elevated Temperature. 	Heat stress induced proteomes in tomato pollen mother cells and microspores	TMT proteomics, laser Capture Microdissection, pollen heat stress, tomato free microspores	BACKGROUND: Tomatoes are self-pollinating plants, and successful fruit set depends on the production of functional pollen within the same flower. Our previous studies have shown that the 'Black Vernissage' tomato variety exhibits greater resilience to heat stress in terms of pollen productivity compared to the 'Micro-Tom' variety. Pollen productivity is determined by meiotic activity during microsporogenesis and the development of free microspores during gametogenesis. This study focused on identifying heat stress (HS)-induced proteomes in pollen mother cells (PMCs) and microspores. METHODS: Tomato plants were grown under two temperature conditions: 26 degreesC (non-heat-treated control) and 37 degreesC (heat-treated). Homogeneous cell samples of meiotic PMCs (prior to the tetrad stage) and free microspores were collected using laser capture microdissection (LCM). The heat-induced proteomes were identified using tandem mass tag (TMT)-quantitative proteomics analysis. RESULTS: The enrichment of the meiotic cell cycle in PMCs and the pre-mitotic process in free microspores confirmed the correlation between proteome expression and developmental stage. Under HS, PMCs in both tomato varieties were enriched with heat shock proteins (HSPs). However, the 'Black Vernissage' variety exhibited a greater diversity of HSP species and a higher level of enrichment compared to the 'Micro-Tom' variety. Additionally, several proteins involved in gene expression and protein translation were downregulated in PMCs and microspores of both varieties. In the PMC proteomes, the relative abundance of proteins showed no significant differences between the two varieties under normal conditions, with very few exceptions. However, HS induced significant differential expression both within and between the varieties. More importantly, these heat-induced differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) in PMCs are directly involved in meiotic cell division, including the meiosis-specific protein ASY3 (Solyc01g079080), the cell division protein kinase 2 (Solyc11g070140), COP9 signalosome complex subunit 1 (Solyc01g091650), the kinetochore protein ndc80 (Solyc01g104570), MORC family CW-type zinc finger 3 (Solyc02g084700), and several HSPs that function in protecting the fidelity of the meiotic processes, including the DNAJ chaperone (Solyc04g009770, Solyc05g055160), chaperone protein htpG (Solyc04g081570), and class I and class II HSPs. In the microspores, most of the HS-induced DAPs were consistently observed across both varieties, with only a few proteins showing significant differences between them under heat stress. These HS-induced DAPs include proteases, antioxidant proteins, and proteins related to cell wall remodeling and the generation of pollen exine. CONCLUSIONS: HS induced more dynamic proteomic changes in meiotic PMCs compared to microspores, and the inter-varietal differences in the PMC proteomes align with the effects of HS on pollen productivity observed in the two varieties. This research highlights the importance of the cell-type-specific proteomics approach in identifying the molecular mechanisms that are critical for the pollen developmental process under elevated temperature conditions.
PXD022481	40265419	Role of LIN28B in the Regulation of Ribosomal Biogenesis and Lipid Metabolism in Medulloblastoma Brain Cancer Cells. 	role of LIN28B protein in medulloblastoma by siRNA-mediated silencing of LIN28B in Daoy cells	LIN28B, medulloblastoma, siRNA	Background: Medulloblastoma (MB) is the most aggressive paediatric brain cancer, highlighting the urgent need for new diagnostic and prognostic biomarkers and improved treatments to enhance patient outcomes. Our previous study identified LIN28B, an RNA-binding protein, as a potential diagnostic and prognostic marker for MB and a pharmacological target to inhibit MB cell proliferation and stemness. However, the specific role of LIN28B and its mechanism of action in MB had not been studied. Methods: This study assessed LIN28B's role in Daoy MB cells using siRNA-mediated silencing. LIN28B silencing was achieved with Dharmacon ON-TARGETplus SMARTpool and confirmed by Western blotting. Proliferation and protein assays evaluated the cell metabolic activity and viability. A proteomics analysis was conducted to examine the effect of LIN28B knockdown on the MB cell protein expression profile. The intracellular lipid droplets were assessed using the Nile Red Staining Kit, and nucleolar B23 protein levels were assessed by immunofluorescence. Both were visualised with a high-content IN Cell Analyser 2200. Results: Effective LIN28B silencing (>80%) was achieved in each experiment. LIN28B knockdown reduced the MB cell viability, impaired ribosome biogenesis, and promoted cellular lipid accumulation, as supported by proteomics and cell-based assays. Conclusions: This study highlights LIN28B as a promising target for regulating MB cell growth, ribosomal biogenesis, and lipid metabolism.
PXD050349	40265925	Multi-Omics Analysis Provides Insights into a Mosaic-Leaf Phenotype of Astaxanthin-Producing Tobacco. 	Tandem Mass Tag-based proteomics of astaxanthin-producing tobacco expressing astaxanthin synthetases from Adonis aestivalis	Adonis aestivalis, Nicotiana tabacum, Tandem Mass Tag-based proteomics, astaxanthin, pigmentation.	In metabolically engineered plants, the target products are usually uniformly distributed in the whole plant or specific tissues. When engineering tobacco to produce astaxanthin, a ketocarotenoid with strong antioxidant activity and multiple bioactivities, a scattered distribution of astaxanthin-producing regions was observed in a small portion of astaxanthin-producing tobacco plants, which caused mosaic-like red and green spots on the leaves (ASTA-mosaic). A physiological assay showed that the non-astaxanthin green region (Mosaic_G) had relatively higher chlorophyll content and better chloroplast structure than the astaxanthin-producing red region (Mosaic_R). Then, metabolomics, proteomics, and small RNA transcriptomics were employed to analyze the uneven distribution of astaxanthin-producing regions in tobacco leaves. The results of metabolomics and proteomics revealed a decrease in carotenoid metabolism, chlorophyll biosynthesis, and chlorophyll degradation in the Mosaic_G region. Pheophorbide a, an intermediate of chlorophyll degradation, was found to be significantly reduced in the Mosaic_G region, which was accompanied by the attenuation of chlorophyllase and pheophytinase, which catalyze the formation of pheophorbide a in chlorophyll degradation. Reductions in photosynthetic antenna proteins and photosystem-associated proteins were observed in the Mosaic_R region, consistent with the better chloroplast structure of the Mosaic_G region. Small RNA transcriptomics showed that several small RNAs could target chlorophyll-degradative genes, but they were more effective in targeting the astaxanthin biosynthetic genes. This finding was supported by the fact that the Mosaic_G region can remain green up to the senescence of tobacco leaves. This work provides insights into the mechanism of the uneven distribution of astaxanthin-producing regions in tobacco leaves and may contribute to the specialized utilization of tobacco plants for metabolic engineering.
PXD055761	40265973	Targeting Senescence with Apigenin Improves Chemotherapeutic Efficacy and Ameliorates Age-Related Conditions in Mice. 	Proteomic studies of mechanism of action of apigenin in stromal cells by five proteomic experiments	Co-IP, LC-MS, MJ33, PRDX6, apigenin, protein targets, proteomic profiling	Cellular senescence is a cell fate triggered by stressful stimuli and displays a hypersecretory feature, the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). Senescent cell burden increases with aging and contributes to age-related organ dysfunction and multiple chronic disorders. In this study, a large scale screening of a natural product library for senotherapeutic candidates is performed. Apigenin, a dietary flavonoid previously reported with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities, exhibits capacity for targeting senescent cells as a senomorphic agent. This compound blocks the interactions between ATM/p38MAPK and HSPA8, preventing the transition of an acute stress-associated phenotype (ASAP) toward the SASP. Mechanistically, apigenin targets peroxiredoxin 6 (PRDX6), an intracellular redox-active molecule, suppressing the iPLA2 activity of PRDX6 and disrupting downstream reactions underlying SASP development. Apigenin reduces the severity of cancer cell malignancy promoted by senescent stromal cells in culture, while restraining chemoresistance when combined with chemotherapy in anticancer regimens. In preclinical trials, apigenin improves the physical function of animals with a premature aging-like state, alleviating physical frailty and cognitive impairment. Together, the study demonstrates the feasibility of exploiting a natural compound with senomorphic capacity to achieve geroprotective effects by modulating the SASP, thus providing a baseline for future exploration of natural agents for alleviating age-related conditions.
PXD061468	40266815	Isoform-specific Phosphorylation of Axonemal Dynein Heavy Chains. 	Isoform-specific Patterns of Phosphorylation on Axonemal Dynein Heavy Chains	axoneme, chlamydomonas, dynein, phosphorylation	Axonemal dyneins power ciliary motility and phosphorylation of key intermediate and light chain components affects the regulation and properties of these motors in very distantly related organisms. It is also known that many axonemal dynein heavy chains are subject to this post-translational modification although this has been little studied. Here we examine axonemal dynein heavy chains from a broad range of ciliated eukaryotes and identify phosphorylated sites embedded within various kinase recognition motifs such as those for PKA, PKC and casein kinase II. Mapping these sites onto discrete heavy chain types reveals class-specific locations apparently mediated by different kinases. For example, we find that all Chlamydomonas alpha heavy chain phosphorylation sites are in an extended loop derived from AAA5 that arches over the coiled-coil buttress which in turn interacts with the microtubule-binding stalk. In contrast, most sites in the monomeric inner arm dyneins occur very close to the N-terminus and may be involved in assembly processes. In Chlamydomonas, the two cilia (termed cis and trans) exhibit different intrinsic beat frequencies and we identify cilium-specific phosphorylation patterns on both the alpha heavy chain and outer arm docking complex consistent with differential regulation of these motors in the two organelles.
PXD058827	40267184	Structure-based discovery of highly bioavailable, covalent, broad-spectrum coronavirus M(Pro) inhibitors with potent in vivo efficacy. 	Selective RNA sequestration in P-bodies regulates cell identity	P-bodies, stem cells	The main protease (M(Pro)) of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) is a validated drug target. Starting with a lead-like dihydrouracil chemotype identified in a large-library docking campaign, we improved M(Pro) inhibition >1000-fold by engaging additional M(Pro) subsites and using a latent electrophile to engage Cys(145). Advanced leads from this series show pan-coronavirus antiviral activity, low clearance in mice, and for AVI-4773, a rapid reduction in viral titers >1,000,000 after just three doses. Both compounds are well distributed in mouse tissues, including brain, where concentrations >1000x the 90% effective concentration are observed 8 hours after oral dosing for AVI-4773. AVI-4516 shows minimal inhibition of major cytochrome P450s and human proteases. AVI-4516 also exhibits synergy with the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase inhibitor, molnupiravir, in cellular infection models. Related analogs strongly inhibit nirmatrelvir-resistant M(Pro) mutant virus. The properties of this chemotype are differentiated from existing clinical and preclinical M(Pro) inhibitors and will advance therapeutic development against emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants and other coronaviruses.
PXD057012	40267909	PERK-dependent reciprocal crosstalk between ER and non-centrosomal microtubules coordinates ER architecture and cell shape. 	PERK crosstalk between ER and microtubule dynamics	Unfolded Protein Response, endoplasmic reticulum (ER)	The architecture of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is a key determinant of its function. Its dynamics are linked to those of the cytoskeleton, but our understanding of how this coordination occurs and what its functional relevance is, limited. Here, we report that the unfolded protein response (UPR(ER)) transducer EIF2AK3/PERK (eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2-alpha kinase 3/protein kinase R-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase) is essential for acute-stress-induced peripheral redistribution and remodeling of the ER through eukaryotic initiation factor 2 alpha (eIF2alpha) phosphorylation and translation initiation shutdown. PERK-mediated eIF2alpha phosphorylation can be bypassed by blocking polysome assembly, depleting microtubule (MT)-anchoring ER proteins such as p180/RRBP1 (ribosome-binding protein 1), or disrupting the MT cytoskeleton. Specific disruption of non-centrosomal MTs, but not centrosome depletion, rescues ER redistribution in PERK-deficient cells. Conversely, PERK deficiency stabilizes non-centrosomal MTs against proteasomal degradation, promoting polarized protrusiveness in epithelial cells and neuroblasts. Thus, PERK coordinates ER architecture and homeostasis with cell morphogenesis by coupling ER remodeling and non-centrosomal MT stability and dynamics.
PXD054797	40268906	Mechanisms of chemotherapy failure in refractory/relapsed acute myeloid leukemia: the role of cytarabine resistance and mitochondrial metabolism. 	Mechanisms of Chemotherapy Failure in Refractory/Relapsed Acute Myeloid Leukemia: The Role of Cytarabine Resistance and Mitochondrial Metabolism	Acute myeloid leukemia, Cytrabine, Mitochondrial metabolism	Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is an aggressive hematological malignancy. Patients with wild-type FLT3 relapsed or refractory (R/R) AML face significant therapeutic challenges due to the persistent lack of effective treatments. A comprehensive understanding of the mechanisms underlying chemotherapy resistance is needed to the development of effective treatment strategies. Therefore, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying cytarabine (Ara-C) resistance and daunorubicin (DNR) tolerance in Ara-C-resistant RHI-1 cells derived from the wild-type FLT3 AML cell line SHI-1. Quantitative analysis of intracellular drug concentrations, proteomics, and phosphoproteomics showed that DNR resistance in Ara-C-resistant RHI-1 cells is driven by metabolic remodeling toward mitochondrial metabolism, upregulation of DNA repair pathways, and enhanced reactive oxygen species (ROS) detoxification rather than reduced drug uptake. Moreover, targeting these compensatory mechanisms, particularly the OXPHOS complex I proteins, significantly improved the efficacy of both Ara-C and DNR. Conclusively, these findings highlight mitochondrial metabolism and DNA repair as critical factors in chemotherapy resistance and offer valuable insights into potential therapeutic targets for enhancing treatment outcomes in patients with wild-type FLT3 R/R AML.
PXD054917	40268917	Cryo-EM structure of the AAA+ SPATA5 complex and its role in human cytoplasmic pre-60S maturation. 	i.e., Human HEK-293F cell line AP-MS/MS analysis of oxidative modifications in SPATA5.	AP-MSMS, HEK-293F, i. e. Human	Eukaryotic ribosome biogenesis is an energy-consuming process involving many ATPase-driven steps. In yeast, AAA+ protein Drg1 releases an assembly factor Rlp24, a placeholder for Rpl24, from pre-60S particles just exported to cytosol. The equivalent process in human cells involves SPATA5 (Drg1 homolog) and additional factors. However, the mechanistic details remain unclear. Here we reveal that SPATA5 forms a 4:2:2:2 complex with SPATA5L1, C1orf109, and CINP. This complex features an N-terminal ring made of C1orf109, CINP and NTDs of SPATA5/SPATA5L1, and two hexameric AAA+ ATPase rings. Intriguingly, a conserved cysteine C672 in the P-loop of SPATA5 is sulfinylated, generating an inactive conformation incompatible with ATP binding. We also obtained a cryo-EM structure of pre-60S-bound SPATA5 complex. Different from yeast, the recognition of the pre-60S particle is mediated by human-specific factor CINP, through two distinct sets of interactions: one with GTPBP4 and the other with ES27A. Taken together, these data provide structural basis for understanding the cytoplasmic maturation of the pre-60S, and reveal human-specific features that might be harnessed for therapeutic purposes.
PXD054443	40268929	VCL/ICAM-1 pathway is associated with lung inflammatory damage in SARS-CoV-2 Omicron infection. 	Regulatory Role of the VCL/ICAM-1 Pathway in Inflammatory Exudative Damage to the Gas-Blood Barrier in SARS-CoV-2 Infection: New Insights from the Omicron Paradigm	Human Proteome Project, Multi-Omics, N-Glycosylation, Omicron, Protein modification, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), SARS-CoV-2	SARS-CoV-2 variants present diverse clinical manifestations, necessitating deeper insights into their pathogenic effects. This study employs multi-omics approaches to investigate the molecular mechanisms underlying SARS-CoV-2 infection, focusing on vascular damage. Plasma proteomic analysis of unvaccinated participants infected with Omicron BA.2.76 or ancestral variants identifies key signaling pathways associated with endothelial dysfunction, with the vinculin (VCL) pathway emerging as a hallmark of Omicron infections, contributing to lung exudation. Metabolomic analysis of plasma samples from the same cohort reveals disruptions in immune function, cell membrane integrity, and metabolic processes, including altered tricarboxylic acid cycle and glycolysis pathways. An integrated analysis of proteomic and metabolomic data underscores the role of VCL in inflammation and extravasation, highlighting its interactions with adhesion molecules and inflammatory metabolites. A validation cohort of plasma samples from Omicron-infected participants confirms this association by replicating proteomic analysis, showing elevated VCL levels correlated with inflammatory markers. Functional studies in a male rat model of lung injury demonstrate that anti-VCL intervention reduces plasma VCL levels, mitigates alveolar edema, and restores alveolar-capillary barrier integrity, as assessed by histological staining and electron microscopy, thereby illustrating VCL modulation's impact on vascular leakage and extravasation. These findings establish VCL as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating vascular complications in SARS-CoV-2 infections.
PXD061003	40268935	Formation of a membraneless compartment regulates bacterial virulence. 	Formation of a membraneless compartment regulates bacterial virulence	CsrA, CsrB, enteropathogenic E. coli, enteropathogenic bacteria, host-pathogen interaction, membraneless compartment, post-transcriptional regulation, sRNA, type III secretion system, virulence regulation	The RNA-binding protein CsrA regulates the expression of hundreds of genes in several bacterial species, thus controlling virulence and other processes. However, the outcome of the CsrA-mRNA interactions is modulated by competing small RNAs and other factors through mechanisms that are only partially understood. Here, we show that CsrA accumulates in a dynamic membraneless compartment in cells of E. coli and other pathogenic species. In addition to CsrA, the compartment contains components of the RNA-degrading complex (degradosome), regulatory small RNAs, and selected mRNAs. Formation of the compartment is associated with a switch between promoting and repressing virulence gene expression by CsrA. We suggest that similar CsrA switches may be widespread in diverse bacteria.
PXD061424	40268954	UBL7 is indispensable for spermiogenesis through protecting critical factors from excessive degradation by proteasomes. 	Interactors and targeted substrates of UBL7 in mouse testis and sperm	UBL-UBA protein, UBL7, sperm	Spermiogenesis is a tightly regulated process to produce mature sperm cells. The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) plays a crucial role in controlling protein half-life and is essential for spermiogenesis. Recently, proteins containing ubiquitin-like domains and ubiquitin-associated domains (UBL-UBA proteins) have emerged as novel regulators within the UPS. In this study, we demonstrate that UBL7, a testis-enriched UBL-UBA protein, is indispensable for sperm formation. Deficiency of UBL7 leads to severe malformations of both the sperm tail and head. Mechanistically, UBL7 interacts with the valosin-containing protein (VCP) complex and proteasomes, and shuttles substrates between them. Notably, UBL7 slows down the degradation rates of substrates involved in endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD) within cells. Through a two-step immunoprecipitation method, we identify several essential factors in spermatids that are protected by UBL7, including factors involved in the development of manchette (such as IFT140), head-tail coupling apparatus (such as SPATA20) and cytoplasmic droplets (such as HK1 and SLC2a3). In summary, our findings highlight UBL7 as a guardian that protects crucial factors from excessive degradation and thereby ensures successful spermiogenesis.
PXD060379	40269061	Discovery of an ApoE4-targeted small-molecule SirT1 enhancer for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. 	Discovery of an ApoE4-Targeted Small-Molecule SirT1 Enhancer for  the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease	NFYb, PRMT5, SirT1, SirT1 enhancer, apolipoprotein E4, memory, sirtuin 1	Decreased expression of sirtuin 1 (SirT1) has been implicated in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and as we previously reported, is related to transcriptional repression by the major risk factor for sporadic AD, apolipoprotein E4 (ApoE4). Herein we describe the discovery of an orally brain-permeable small-molecule, DDL-218, that enhanced SirT1 in ApoE4-expressing neuronal cells and a murine AD model. DDL-218 increased the transcription factor NFYb resulting in upregulation of PRMT5. Mechanistic and modeling studies show that binding of ApoE4 to the SirT1 gene promoter can be displaced by PRMT5 leading to increased SirT1 transcription. DDL-218 treatment elicited improvement in memory in the AD model, suggesting that DDL-218 enhancement of neurotrophic SirT1 in the brain has potential to modulate neuronal activity that may clinically provide an improvement in cognitive function and complement the current anti-Abeta antibody monotherapy. Our findings support further development of DDL-218 as a novel ApoE4-targeted therapeutic candidate for AD.
PXD053892	40269187	LRRK2 mediates haloperidol-induced changes in indirect pathway striatal projection neurons. 	LRRK2 mediates haloperidol-induced changes in striatal indirect pathway circuits	LRRK2, haloperidol, striatal	Haloperidol is used to manage psychotic symptoms in several neurological disorders through mechanisms that involve antagonism of dopamine D2 receptors that are highly expressed in the striatum. Significant side effects of haloperidol, known as extrapyramidal symptoms, lead to motor deficits similar to those seen in Parkinson's disease and present a major challenge in clinical settings. The underlying molecular mechanisms responsible for these side effects remain poorly understood. Parkinson's disease-associated leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) has an essential role in striatal physiology and a known link to dopamine D2 receptor signaling. Here, we systematically explore convergent signaling of haloperidol and LRRK2 through pharmacological or genetic inhibition of LRRK2 kinase, as well as knock-in mouse models expressing pathogenic mutant LRRK2 with increased kinase activity. Behavioral assays show that LRRK2 kinase inhibition ameliorates haloperidol-induced motor changes in mice. A combination of electrophysiological and anatomical approaches reveals that LRRK2 kinase inhibition interferes with haloperidol-induced changes, specifically in striatal neurons of the indirect pathway. Proteomic studies and targeted intracellular pathway analyses demonstrate that haloperidol induces a similar pattern of intracellular signaling as increased LRRK2 kinase activity. Our study suggests that LRRK2 kinase plays a key role in striatal dopamine D2 receptor signaling underlying the undesirable motor side effects of haloperidol. This work opens up new therapeutic avenues for dopamine-related disorders, such as psychosis, also furthering our understanding of Parkinson's disease pathophysiology.
PXD058501	40270590	Urinary metabolomics analysis based on LC-MS for the diagnosis and monitoring of acute coronary syndrome. 	Urinary metabolomics analysis based on LC-MS for diagnosis and monitoring of Acute coronary syndrome	Acute coronary syndrome, metabolomics analysis	Background: Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is a cardiovascular disease caused by acute myocardial ischemia. The aim of this study was to use urine metabolomics to explore potential biomarkers for the diagnosis of ACS and the changes in metabolites during the development of this disease. Methods: Urine samples were collected from 81 healthy controls and 130 ACS patients (103 UA and 27 AMI). Metabolomics based on liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) was used to analyze urine samples. Statistical analysis and functional annotation were applied to identify potential metabolite panels and altered metabolic pathways between ACS patients and healthy controls, unstable angina (UA), and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) patients. Results: There were significant differences in metabolic profiles among the UA, AMI and control groups. A total of 512 differential metabolites were identified in this study. Functional annotation revealed that changes in arginine biosynthesis, cysteine and methionine metabolism, galactose metabolism, sulfur metabolism and steroid hormone biosynthesis pathways occur in ACS. In addition, a panel composed of guanidineacetic acid, S-adenosylmethionine, oxindole was able to distinguish ACS patients from healthy controls. The AUC values were 0.8339 (UA VS HCs) and 0.8617 (AMI VS HCs). Moreover, DL-homocystine has the ability to distinguish between UA and AMI, and the area under the ROC curve is 0.8789. The metabolites whose levels increased with disease severity the disease were involved mainly in cysteine and methionine metabolism and the galactose metabolism pathway. Metabolites that decrease with disease severity are related mainly to tryptophan metabolism. Conclusion: The results of this study suggest that urinary metabolomics studies can reveal differences between ACS patients and healthy controls, which may help in understanding its mechanisms and the discovery of related biomarkers.
PXD052144	40270826	UV-C and hydration state drive pulsed light-induced proteome damage in Bacillus pumilus spores. 	Molecular changes in the proteome of Bacillus pumilus spores upon UV and pulse light treatment.	UV-C, germination, gram-positive bacteria, inactivation, metabolism, pulse-light, spores	Introduction: Pulsed light (PL) is a non-thermal processing technology that inactivates microorganisms through high-intensity pulses of polychromatic light, including ultraviolet-C (UV-C). While the germicidal effect of PL has been widely studied, its impact on microbial proteomes remains poorly understood. Here, we investigate the proteomic response of Bacillus pumilus DSM492 (ATCC 27142) spores to PL treatment, comparing it to conventional UV-C 254 nm exposure. Methods: B. pumilus spores were either suspended in water or sprayed onto a polystyrene surface and exposed to PL or UV-C at fluences achieving a 5-log and a > 7-log reduction in viability. Proteomic changes were analyzed using mass spectrometry to identify proteins with decreased abundance after treatment. Results: PL treatment induced a significantly greater proteomic alteration compared to UV-C, particularly in spores suspended in water, where the number of proteins with decreased abundance was ~6-fold higher than in spores sprayed on a polystyrene surface. Proteomic analysis revealed that the effect of PL in water was primarily due to UV-C 254 nm, whereas on polystyrene, UV-C 254 nm had no significant impact. Furthermore, proteins most affected by PL were enriched in photosensitive amino acids such as tryptophan, histidine, tyrosine, cysteine, and methionine, suggesting oxidation and photoreactivity as key degradation mechanisms. Discussion: Although the overall inactivation rate could not be directly correlated with proteome damage, we identified that core proteins involved in DNA and RNA protection and repair were specifically targeted by PL. These findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying PL-mediated microbial inactivation and highlight the role of protein photodamage in spore susceptibility.
PXD059136	40270967	Proteomic analysis of infiltrating neutrophils from rheumatoid arthritis synovial fluid and their contribution to protein carbamylation. 	The role of neutrophils on SF protein carbamylation	Carbamylation, Neutrophils, SF	Introduction: Carbamylated proteins and dysregulated neutrophils are implicated in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) pathogenesis. Herein, we characterized the neutrophils present in RA synovial fluid (SF) using proteomic techniques and evaluated their contribution to protein carbamylation. Methods: RA-SF neutrophil proteomic profile and SF proteome signature were investigated using high-resolution mass spectrometry. Carbamylated proteins and the degree of protein carbamylation were evaluated by mass spectrometric analysis. ELISA and chemiluminescence kits were used to examine myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity, and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) generation. Results: SF neutrophils exhibited a shift in proteomic cargo with up-regulated proteins involved in defense responses, neutrophil degranulation, and reactive oxygen species metabolic processes, while proteins down-regulated were associated with megakaryocyte differentiation, leukocyte migration, and integrin-mediated signaling pathway. Elevated levels of neutrophil-derived proteins were detected in RA-SF. In addition, we specifically identified many carbamylated proteins and observed an increased frequency of protein carbamylation in RA-SF samples. Functionally, neutrophils from RA-SF showed a significantly increased level of MPO release and HH2O2 generation. Moreover, MPO activity was higher in RA-SF than in autologous blood samples, which correlated well with the degree of protein carbamylation in RA-SF. Discussion: Synovial neutrophils were found to be activated and increased releasing protein cargo, including MPO and ROS, into the synovial fluid. Presence of many carbamylated proteins in RA-SF and an increased MPO activity showed a strong correlation to the degree of protein carbamylation, suggesting neutrophil-derived MPO in promoting generation of aberrantly carbamylated proteins.
PXD057794	40272400	RAS-p110alpha signalling in macrophages is required for effective inflammatory response and resolution of inflammation. 	RAS-p110alpha signalling pathway in macrophages and its impact on both the initiation and resolution of inflammation	RAS-PI3K, inflammation, macrophages	Macrophages are crucial in the body's inflammatory response, with tightly regulated functions for optimal immune system performance. Our study reveals that the RAS-p110alpha signalling pathway, known for its involvement in various biological processes and tumourigenesis, regulates two vital aspects of the inflammatory response in macrophages: the initial monocyte movement and later-stage lysosomal function. Disrupting this pathway, either in a mouse model or through drug intervention, hampers the inflammatory response, leading to delayed resolution and the development of more severe acute inflammatory reactions in live models. This discovery uncovers a previously unknown role of the p110alpha isoform in immune regulation within macrophages, offering insight into the complex mechanisms governing their function during inflammation and opening new avenues for modulating inflammatory responses.
PXD044060	40272563	Proteomics-based characterization of ribosome heterogeneity in adult mouse organs. 	Ribosomal protein signature in adult mouse organs	Ribosome, quantification	The translation process, leading to protein synthesis from mRNA, has been long thought to be invariable in all cellular organisms. Increasing evidence shows that it is finely regulated by variable features of the translation machinery. Notably, ribosomes, the functional units of protein synthesis, are suggested to display variations in their composition, depending on the developmental stage, cell type or physio-pathological context, thus hinting a new level of actionable regulation of gene expression. Yet, a comprehensive map of the heterogeneity of ribosome composition in ribosomal proteins (RPs) in different organs and tissues is not available. In this work, we explored tissue-specific ribosome heterogeneity using mass spectrometry-based quantitative proteomic characterization of ribosomal fractions purified from 14 adult mouse organs and tissues. We performed crossed clustering and statistical analyses of RP composition to highlight stable, variable and tissue-specific RPs across organs and tissues. Focusing on specific RPs, we validated their varying abundances using a targeted proteomic approach and western blot analyses, providing further insights into the tissue-specific ribosome RP signature. Finally, we investigated the origin of RP variations in ribosome fraction of the different tissues, by comparing RP relative amounts in our ribosomal proteomic dataset with their corresponding transcript abundances in three independent transcriptomic datasets. Interestingly, we found that, in some tissues, the RP abundance in purified ribosomes does not always correlate with the corresponding RP transcript level, arguing for a translational regulation of RP expression, and/or a regulated incorporation of RPs into ribosomes. Altogether, our data support the notion of a tissue-specific RP signature of ribosomes, which opens avenues to study how specific ribosomal composition provides an additional level of regulation to control gene expression in different tissues and organs.
PXD060849	40273983	Variations in kinase and effector signaling logic in a bacterial two component signaling network. 	HDX-MS analysis of a light-oxygen-voltage sensor-containing histidine kinase	HDX-MS, histidine kinase	The general stress response (GSR) protects bacteria from a wide range of stressors. In Alphaproteobacteria, GSR activation is coordinated by HWE/HisKA2 family histidine kinases (HKs), which can exhibit non-canonical structure and function. For example, while most light-oxygen-voltage sensor-containing HKs are light activated dimers, the Rubellimicrobium thermophilum RT-HK has inverted "dark on, light off" signaling logic with a tunable monomer/dimer equilibrium. Here, we further investigate these atypical behaviors of RT-HK and characterize its downstream signaling network. Using hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry, we find that RT-HK uses a signal transduction mechanism similar to light-activated systems, despite its inverted logic. Mutagenesis reveals that RT-HK autophosphorylates in trans, with changes to the Jalpha helix linking sensor and kinase domains affecting autophosphorylation levels. Exploring downstream effects of RT-HK, we identified two GSR genetic regions, each encoding a copy of the central regulator PhyR. In vitro measurements of phosphotransfer from RT-HK to the two putative PhyRs revealed that RT-HK signals only to one, and does so at an increased intensity in the dark, consistent with its reversed logic. X-ray crystal structures of both PhyRs revealed a substantial shift within the receiver domain of one, suggesting a basis for RT-HK specificity. We probed further down the pathway using nuclear magnetic resonance to determine that the single NepR homolog interacts with both unphosphorylated PhyRs, and this interaction is decoupled from activation in one PhyR. This work expands our understanding of HWE/HisKA2 family signal transduction, revealing marked variations from signaling mechanisms previously identified in other GSR networks.
PXD043675	40274794	A facultative plasminogen-independent thrombolytic enzyme from Sipunculus nudus. 	Mass spec analysis of the sequences of proteins snFPITE-n1 and snFPITE-n2 from Sipunculus nudus	Sipunculus nudus, mass spec	Current thrombolytic therapies primarily function by converting plasminogen into plasmin, a process dependent on the fibrin-activator complex. This dependence, coupled with the substantial molecular size of plasmin, constrains its effectiveness in degrading D-dimer and restricts its diffusion within thrombi. Here, we introduce a small facultative plasminogen-independent thrombolytic enzyme, snFPITE, isolated from Sipunculus nudus. Compared to traditional thrombolytic agents, snFPITE does not require plasminogen for thrombolysis, although its presence enhances lytic activity. This enzyme fully degrades cross-linked fibrin without leaving residual nondegradable D-dimer and generates a smaller fibrinolytic-active agent from plasminogen. A series of male rats and mice models further confirm that snFPITE is a safety injectable thrombolytic agent. Mechanistically, snFPITE activates plasminogen and degrades fibrin(ogen) in a multisite cleavage manner. snFPITE is inhibited by plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 and alpha2-antiplasmin via a competitive inhibition. We further identify 28 snFPITE candidate sequences, of which 10 are confirmed as functional genes.
PXD059153	40274802	Long-term GABA supplementation mitigates anxiety by modulating complement and neuroinflammatory pathways. 	Proteomic and Behavioral Study of the Anxiolytic Effects of GABA in a Chronic Restraint Stress-Induced Anxiety Model	ANXIETY, GABA	Anxiety disorders are among the most prevalent mental health conditions, often linked with neuroinflammation and imbalances in neurotransmitter systems. This study examined the anxiolytic effects of oral GABA in chronic restraint stress (CRS) mice. Mice were divided into control, CRS, and two GABA-treated groups (10 mg/kg, 20 mg/kg). After 14 days of administration, anxiety-like behaviors were assessed using elevated-plus maze and open-field tests. GABA levels in the prefrontal cortex were quantified via ELISA, while anti-inflammatory cytokines were measured using an antibody array. Proteomic analysis of the hippocampus identified differentially expressed proteins, validated through Parallel Reaction Monitoring and immunoblotting. Results showed that GABA significantly alleviated anxiety-like behaviors, increased GABA levels in the prefrontal cortex, and elevated anti-inflammatory factors IL-10 and TGF-beta1. Proteomic analysis and validation revealed GABA reversed complement dysregulation (C3, C4b, Cfh, Cfi). These findings suggest GABA alleviates anxiety by modulating immune homeostasis and complement activation, highlighting its therapeutic potential.
PXD059013	40274922	Differential unfolded protein response regulation in KRAS silencing sensitive and innately resistant colorectal cancer cells. 	Human colon cancer cell lines - LC-MSMS	KRAS silencing, colon cancer, resistant	Despite the development of mutant-selective KRAS inhibitors, colorectal cancer (CRC) responses remain limited, with stable disease and rapid recurrence being common outcomes. The molecular mechanisms enabling CRC cells to tolerate KRAS inhibition and ultimately develop resistance remain poorly understood. Here, we investigated early transcriptional and proteomic responses to KRAS silencing in 3D CRC cell line spheroid models, aiming to identify pathways associated with sensitivity or resistance to KRAS blockade. Cell lines were stratified into KRAS silencing-sensitive (HCT116 and SW480) and -resistant (LS174T and SW837) groups based on spheroid growth, cell cycle progression, and apoptosis induction. Transcriptional profiling revealed the unfolded protein response (UPR) and WNT/beta-catenin signaling as pathways specifically upregulated in KRAS silencing-sensitive cells and downregulated in resistant cells. Proteomic analysis of membrane-enriched fractions further supported UPR deregulation, showing a pronounced downregulation of translation-related proteins in sensitive cells. Functional assays validated that the sensitive cell line HCT116 exhibits reduced protein aggregation and lower translational capacity upon KRAS knockdown, consistent with UPR activation. Pharmacological inhibition of IRE1alpha-mediated UPR signaling did not revert KRAS silencing-induced cell cycle arrest or apoptosis in this cell line. Collectively, our results highlight the UPR activation as an early adaptive response of KRAS-dependent CRC cells to KRAS silencing.
PXD060707	40275108	Snf1 and yeast GSK3-beta activates Tda1 to suppress glucose starvation signaling. 	Identification of phosphorylation sites and binding proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae Tda1	IP-MS, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Tda1	In budding yeast, the presence of glucose, a preferred energy source, suppresses the expression of respiration-related genes through a process known as glucose repression. Conversely, under glucose starvation conditions, Snf1 phosphorylates and activates downstream factors, relieving this repression and allowing cells to adapt. Recently, the Tda1 protein kinase has been implicated in these glucose starvation responses, although its function remains largely uncharacterized. In this study, we demonstrate that Snf1 and yeast glycogen synthase kinase 3-beta (GSK3-beta) independently phosphorylate and activate Tda1, which in turn phosphorylates Hxk2 at Ser15. The Ser483 and Thr484 residues of Tda1 are critical for its activation by Snf1, while the Ser509 residue is crucial for its activation by yeast GSK3-beta. Importantly, under glucose starvation conditions, the TDA1 deletion mutant shows increased expression of respiration-related genes and a faster growth rate compared to wild-type cells, which is opposite to what is observed in SNF1 and yeast GSK3-beta deletion mutants. These findings suggest that Tda1 is activated by Snf1 and yeast GSK3-beta, and functions as a suppressor of the glucose starvation signaling.
PXD054172	40275387	Comprehensive analysis of blood proteome response to necrotic enteritis in broiler chicken. 	Comprehensive Analysis of Blood Proteome Response to Necrotic Enteritis in Broiler Chicken	Biomarkers, ECM, broiler chicken, gut health, necrotic enteritis	Necrotic enteritis (NE) in broiler chickens is caused by the overgrowth of toxin-producing strains of Clostridium (C.) perfringens. This study aims to analyze the blood proteome of broiler chickens affected by NE, providing insights into the host's response to the infection. Using MS/MS-based proteomics, blood plasma samples from broilers with necrotic lesions of different severity were analyzed and compared to healthy controls. A total of 412 proteins were identified, with 63 showing significant differences; for 25 of those correlation with disease severity was observed. Functional analysis revealed that proteins affected by NE were predominantly associated with the immune and signaling processes and extracellular matrix (ECM) structures. Notably, regulated proteins were significantly involved in bioprocesses related to complement activation, acute phase reaction, proteolysis and humoral immune response. The proteomics findings suggest that the changes in plasma proteins in response to NE are driven by the host's intensified efforts to counteract the infection, demonstrating a.o. activation of ECM-degrading proteases (MMP2, TIMP2), acute phase response (HPS5, CP, EXFABP, TF, VNN) and notable reduction in basement membrane (BM) and ECM-related peptides (PLOD2, POSTN, COL1A1/2, HSPG2, NID2) detected in the blood of NE-affected birds. Moreover, the findings underscore a coordinated effort of the host to mitigate the C. perfringens infection via activating immune (a.o., C3, CFH, MASP2, MBL2) and acute phase (CP, ORM, TF, ExFAB) related proteins. This study provides a deeper understanding of the host-pathogen interactions and identifies potential biomarkers and targets for therapeutic intervention. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD054172.
PXD061933	40280420	DNA stimulates the deacetylase SIRT6 to mono-ADP-ribosylate proteins with histidine repeats. 	Protein ADP-ribosylation Analysis	ADP-ribosylation, MeCP2, SIRT6	Sirtuins are the NAD(+)-dependent class III lysine deacylases (KDACs). Members of this family have been linked to longevity and a wide array of different diseases, motivating the pursuit of sirtuin modulator compounds. Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a primarily nuclear KDAC that deacetylates histones to facilitate gene repression. In addition to this canonical post-translational modification (PTM) "eraser" function, SIRT6 can use NAD(+) instead to "write" mono-ADP-ribosylation (mARylation) on target proteins. This enzymatic function has been primarily associated with SIRT6's role in the DNA damage response. This modification has been challenging to study because it is not clear under what precise cellular contexts it occurs, only a few substrates are known, and potential interference from other ADP-ribosyltransferases in cells, among other reasons. In this work, we used commercially available ADP-ribosylation detection reagents to investigate the mARylation activity of SIRT6 in a reconstituted system. We observed that SIRT6 is activated in its mARylation activity by binding to dsDNA ends. We further identified a surprising target motif within biochemical substrates of SIRT6, polyhistidine (polyHis) repeat tracts, that are present in several previously identified SIRT6 mARylation substrates. This work provides important context for SIRT6 mARylation activity, in contrast to its KDAC activity, and generates a list of new potential SIRT6 mARylation substrates based on the polyHis motif..
PXD033467	40280423	A cobalamin-dependent pathway of choline demethylation from the human gut acetogen Eubacterium limosum. 	Proteome of choline-grown Eubacterium limosum ATCC 8486	Acetogenic bacteria, choline demethylation pathway, human gut isolate	Elevated serum levels of trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) are reported to promote the development of atherosclerosis. TMAO is produced by hepatic oxidation of trimethylamine (TMA) produced by the gut microbiome from dietary quaternary amines such as choline. Net TMA production in the gut depends on microbial enzymes that either produce or consume TMA and its precursors. Here we report the elucidation of a novel microbial pathway consuming choline without TMA production. The human gut acetogen Eubacterium limosum grows by demethylating choline to N-N-dimethylaminoethanol. Quantitative mass spectral analysis of the proteome revealed a multi-protein choline to tetrahydrofolate (THF) methyltransferase system present only in choline-grown cells. The components are encoded in a gene cluster on the genome and include MthB, an MttB superfamily member; MthC, homologous to methylotrophic cobalamin-binding proteins; MthA, homologous to cobalamin:THF methyltransferases; and MthK, a protein related to serine kinases. Together, MthB, MthC, and MthA methylate THF with phosphocholine, but not choline or other quaternary amines. MthB specifically methylates Co(I)-MthC with phosphocholine. MthK acts as a bifunctional choline kinase which can utilize ATP or the MthB demethylation product, N,N-dimethylaminoethanol phosphate, to phosphorylate choline. Together, MthK, MthB, MthC, and MthA are proposed to carry out the methylation of THF with choline. These results outline a THF methylation pathway in which choline is first activated with ATP to phosphocholine prior to demethylation to form N,N-dimethylaminoethanol phosphate. The latter can be recycled by MthK to form more phosphocholine without expending additional ATP, thus minimizing energy utilization during choline-dependent acetogenesis.
PXD055838	40280489	DExH-Box Helicase 9 (DHX9) Participates in De Novo Nrf2 Protein Translation under Oxidative Stress. 	Identification of RNA binding proteins associated with the 5'UTR of Nrf2 during oxidative stress	Nrf2, Oxidative stress, RNA binding proteins, affinity proteomics	Nrf2 transcript factor plays an important role in cellular defense against oxidative stress due to its control for expression of antioxidant and detoxification genes. We have found that Nrf2 gene undergoes de novo protein translation when mammalian cells encounter oxidative stress. Here, we report the discovery of DExH-box helicase-9 (DHX9), also known as RNA helicase A, as a binding protein for Nrf2 mRNA at 5'-untranslated region (5'UTR). H2O2 treatment causes dose- or time- dependent increases of DHX9 binding to Nrf2 5'UTR, in parallel with elevation of Nrf2 protein. Inhibiting DHX9 expression with siRNA or its activity with YK-4-279 inhibitor blocked H2O2 from inducing Nrf2 mRNA recruitment to the ribosomes or Nrf2 protein elevation. As a nuclear protein, DHX9 was found to increase its abundance in the cytosol with oxidative stress. An increase of DHX9 was detected in the ribosomes from cells treated with H2O2, most significantly with 100 muM H2O2, and at 60 mins. Ribosomal fractionation revealed an increase of DHX9 protein at 43/48S and 80S fractions in H2O2 treated cells. H2O2 treatment caused an RNA dependent increase of DHX9 interaction with eIF3eta. The binding of DHX9 to Nrf2 5'UTR was enhanced by H2O2 treated cells or by deducting the length of Nrf2 5'UTR. RNase digestion enhanced DHX9 association with the ribosomes. Our data have revealed a novel mechanism of de novo Nrf2 protein translation under oxidative stress involving DHX9 binding to Nrf2 5'UTR, perhaps via removal of a negative RNA element, to recruit 43S pre-initiation complex for translation initiation.
PXD061373	40281343	PSAT1 impairs ferroptosis and reduces immunotherapy efficacy via GPX4 hydroxylation. 	PSAT1 impairs ferroptosis and reduces immunotherapy efficacy via GPX4 hydroxylation	GPX4, Lipid ROS, PSAT1, cancer immunotherapy, ferroptosis	Tumor cells adapt to the inflammatory tumor microenvironment (TME) and develop resistance to immunotherapy, with ferroptosis being a major form of tumor cell death. However, the mechanisms by which tumor cells coordinate TME stimuli and their unique metabolic traits to evade ferroptosis and develop resistance to immunotherapy remain unclear. Here we showed that interferon-gamma (IFNgamma)-activated calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II phosphorylates phosphoserine aminotransferase 1 (PSAT1) at serine 337 (S337), allowing it to interact with glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) and stabilize the protein, counteracting ferroptosis. PSAT1 elevates GPX4 stability by promoting alpha-ketoglutarate-dependent PHD3-mediated GPX4 proline 159 (P159) hydroxylation, disrupting its binding to HSC70 and inhibiting autophagy-mediated degradation. In mice, reconstitution of PSAT1 S337A or GPX4 P159A promotes ferroptosis and suppresses triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) progression. Blocking PSAT1 pS337 with CPP elevates IFNgamma-induced ferroptosis and enhances the efficacy of programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) antibodies in TNBC. Additionally, PSAT1-mediated GPX4 hydroxylation correlates with poor immunotherapy outcomes in patients with TNBC, highlighting PSAT1's noncanonical role in suppressing ferroptosis and immunotherapy sensitivity.
PXD025468	40281356	Altering metabolism programs cell identity via NAD(+)-dependent deacetylation. 	Altering metabolism programs cell identity via NAD+ dependent deacetylation	Acetylation, Chromatin, Enhancers, Metabolism, NAD, Pluripotency, Sirtuins, Transcription	Cells change their metabolic profiles in response to underlying gene regulatory networks, but how can alterations in metabolism encode specific transcriptional instructions? Here, we show that forcing a metabolic change in embryonic stem cells (ESCs) promotes a developmental identity that better approximates the inner cell mass (ICM) of the early mammalian blastocyst in cultures. This shift in cellular identity depends on the inhibition of glycolysis and stimulation of oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) triggered by the replacement of D-glucose by D-galactose in ESC media. Enhanced OXPHOS in turn activates NAD + -dependent deacetylases of the Sirtuin family, resulting in the deacetylation of histones and key transcription factors to focus enhancer activity while reducing transcriptional noise, which results in a robustly enhanced ESC phenotype. This exploitation of a NAD + /NADH coenzyme coupled to OXPHOS as a means of programming lineage-specific transcription suggests new paradigms for how cells respond to alterations in their environment, and implies cellular rejuvenation exploits enzymatic activities for simultaneous activation of a discrete enhancer set alongside silencing genome-wide transcriptional noise.
PXD046630	40281624	Stage-dependent proteomic alterations in aqueous humor of diabetic retinopathy patients based on data-independent acquisition and parallel reaction monitoring. 	DIA-Based Quantitative Proteome Profiling of Aqueous Humor of Diabetic Retinopathy	Aqueous humor, bioinformatic analysis, diabetic retinopathy	BACKGROUND: Diabetic retinopathy (DR), a microvascular complication of diabetes mellitus (DM), represents the predominant cause of preventable vision loss in working-age populations globally. While the pathophysiological mechanisms underlying DR progression remain incompletely understood, our study employs comprehensive proteomic profiling of aqueous humor (AH) to identify stage-specific biomarkers and therapeutic targets in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients across DR progression. METHODS: Utilizing data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry, we quantified AH proteomes in a discovery cohort comprising 24 subjects: 18 T2DM patients stratified by DR severity [6 non-DR, 6 non-proliferative DR (NPDR), 6 proliferative DR (PDR)] and 6 cataract controls without diabetes (non-DM). Validation cohort analysis (including 10 AH samples in each group) was performed using parallel reaction monitoring (PRM) strategy for verification of target proteins. Comprehensive bioinformatics analyses included gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA), weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA), Kyoto encyclopedia of genes and genomes (KEGG) enrichment analysis, protein-protein interaction (PPI) network construction, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis, and ConnectivityMap (Cmap)-based drug prediction. RESULTS: Proteomic profiling identified 739 quantifiable AH proteins (62% extracellular) with clear separation among the four clinical stages in the discovery cohort. GSEA uncovered altered expression of proteins mainly related to complement and coagulation cascades, folate metabolism, and the selenium micronutrient network in patients with DR. WGCNA-derived protein modules yielded 83 PRM-validated targets, including 5 hub proteins differentiating NPDR from non-DR and 33 hub proteins showed significant upregulation in PDR versus NPDR comparison. Clinical correlation analysis identified F2, FGG, FGB, RBP4, AMBP, VTN, C8A, CPB2, and C2 associated with clinical traits. C6, FAM3C, SPP1, and JCHAIN levels were altered post-anti-VEGF treatment. Pharmacological prediction identified potential therapeutic compounds, including perindopril, triciribine, and XAV-939 for NPDR, and topiramate, triciribine, and vecuronium for PDR. CONCLUSION: This study established a comprehensive AH proteomic signature of DR progression, offering insights into the pathogenesis of DR and highlighting potential biomarkers and novel therapeutic targets.
PXD061075	40282537	Identification of Molecular Subtypes of Clear-Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma in Patient-Derived Xenografts Using Multi-Omics. 	Clear Cell Renal Cell Carcinoma Serum and Tissue Proteomics	biomarkers, clear cell renal cell carcinoma, patient-derived xenografts, serum, tissue	Background/Objectives: Clear-cell renal cell carcinoma (ccRCC) is a heterogenous disease that can be classified into multiple molecular subtypes with differential prognosis and sensitivities to treatments based on their genomic, transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolic profiles. Patient-derived xenografts (PDXs) are high-fidelity cancer models because they maintain similar genotypes and immunohistologic phenotypes to the parental tumors and respond to standard-of-care therapies as expected. However, whether the molecular subtypes identified in ccRCC patient samples are preserved in PDX models is not clear. Our objective is to compare the transcriptional and proteomic profiles of our PDX models to those of ccRCC patients and identify both similarities and distinctions between molecular profiles of PDX subtypes and corresponding ccRCC patient subtypes, so that proper PDX subtypes can be used when investigating the corresponding ccRCC patient subtypes. Methods: To match PDXs to the human ccRCC molecular subtypes, we compared the transcriptomic and proteomic profiles of five ccRCC PDX models established in our lab to those of the human ccRCC molecular subtypes reported by our group, as well as other groups, using hierarchical analysis, Principal Component Analysis (PCA), and Permutation Correlation Analysis. The enrichment of key molecular pathways in PDXs and ccRCC subtypes was determined using Gene Set Enrichment Analysis. Results: We found that each PDX resembles one of the molecular subtypes closely at both transcript and protein levels. In addition, PDXs representing different molecular subtypes show unique metabolic characteristics. Moreover, molecular subtypes of PDXs correlated with ccRCC patient subtypes in key pathway activities implicated in ccRCC progression and therapy resistance. Conclusions: Our results suggest that PDX subtypes should be used when investigating the molecular mechanism of cancer progression and therapy resistance for corresponding ccRCC patient subtypes. This "matching" strategy will greatly facilitate the clinical translation of positive findings into the optimal management of ccRCC patients.
PXD060748	40284720	Role of opuB in Modulating Membrane Vesicle Composition and Function in Streptococcus mutans Under Neutral and Acidic Conditions. 	streptococcus mutans membrane vesicles of UA159 and Smu_opuB	Membrane vesicles, Streptococcus mutans	Streptococcus mutans (S. mutans) plays an important role in dental caries through acid production and biofilm formation. The membrane vesicles (MVs) of S. mutans are essential for microbial physiology, biofilm activity, and acid adaptation. The OpuB transporter regulates osmotic pressure in Bacillus subtilis; however, its role in S. mutans and its MVs remains unexplored. This study investigated the effects of the opuB pathway on MV biogenesis, as well as the proteomic and lipidomic profiles under neutral (pH 7.5) and acidic (pH 5.5) conditions. Nanoflow cytometry showed that the opuB-deficient strain (Smu_opuB) produced significantly more and smaller MVs than UA159 at pH 7.5, while the difference was not significant at pH 5.5. Lipidomic analysis revealed that opuB affected the lipid composition and concentration of S. mutans MVs. Proteomic analysis identified the differential enrichment of key metabolic processes associated with stress, including DNA repair. These findings highlight that opuB is an important regulator of MV biosynthesis and composition and may affect the environmental adaptability of S. mutans by regulating MVs.
PXD055083	40285374	Cerebral proteome adaptations to amyloid angiopathy are prevented by carbonic anhydrase inhibitors. 	Mouse female hippocampus proteomics of Alzheimer Tg-SwDI Model	Alzheimers, Brain	BACKGROUND: Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), linked to adverse effects of emerging AD treatments. We explored the molecular effects of CAA in mouse brain and evaluated how these could be prevented by two repurposed United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved treatments. METHODS: Brain proteomics was performed on the Tg-SwDI genetic mouse model carrying disease causing mutations and developing AD characteristic cognitive deficits and severe CAA. Cortical and hippocampal tissues from presymptomatic male and female mice were studied. RESULTS: We identify a core of dysregulated proteins across studies, including established markers of AD as well as proteins indicative of astrogliosis and negative regulators of synaptic stability and function. Two FDA approved, repurposed carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (CAIs), acetazolamide and methazolamide, were effective in preventing these molecular adaptations. DISCUSSION: The two drugs broadly prevent proteome adaptations to the detrimental genotype and retain glutamatergic synapse proteins significantly closer to wild-type levels. HIGHLIGHTS: The brain proteome changes of mice with CAA are mapped. Cortical and hippocampal tissues from presymptomatic male and female mice are studied. Markers of AD, astrogliosis, and synaptic stability are dysregulated. Two CAI are effective in preventing these protein changes.
PXD055957	40285620	Deciphering the Metabolic Impact and Clinical Relevance of N-Glycosylation in Colorectal Cancer through Comprehensive Glycoproteomic Profiling. 	N-Glycoproteomic analysis reveals novel mechanism and clinical relevance in Colorectal Cancer	Cancer therapies, Colorectal Cancer, Mechanism, N-Glycoproteomic	Colorectal cancer (CRC) progression is driven by complex metabolic alterations, including aberrant N-glycosylation patterns that critically influence tumor development. However, the metabolic and functional roles of N-glycosylation in CRC remain poorly understood. Herein, comprehensive proteomic and N-linked intact glycoproteomics analyses are performed on 45 CRC tumors, and normal adjacent tissues (NATs) are matched, identifying 7125 intact N-glycopeptides from 704 glycoproteins. Through analysis of glycoform expression profiles and structural characteristics, a glycosylation site-protein function association network is constructed to uncover metabolic dysregulation driven by N-glycosylation in CRC. Moreover, an arithmetic model is developed that integrates N-glycan expression patterns, which effectively distinguishes tumors from NATs, reflecting metabolic reprogramming in cancer. These findings identify Chloride Channel Accessory 1 (CLCA1) and Olfactomedin 4 (OLFM4) as potential metabolic biomarkers for CRC diagnosis. Immunohistochemistry and Cox regression analyses validated the prognostic power of these markers. Notably, the critical role of specific N-glycosylation at N196 of Adipocyte plasma membrane-associated protein (APMAP) is highlighted, a key player in tumor metabolism and CRC progression, providing a potential target for therapeutic intervention. These findings offer valuable insights into the metabolic roles of N-glycosylation in CRC, advancing biomarker discovery, enhancing metabolic-based diagnostic precision, and improving personalized treatment strategies targeting cancer metabolism.
PXD037753	40285641	Tumoroid Model Reveals Synergistic Impairment of Metabolism by Iron Chelators and Temozolomide in Chemo-Resistant Patient-derived Glioblastoma Cells. 	A multi-omics analysis of glioma chemoresistance using a hybrid microphysiological model of glioblastoma	A multi-omics analysis of glioma chemoresistance using a hybrid microphysiological model of glioblastoma	Chemoresistance poses a significant clinical challenge in managing glioblastoma (GBM), limiting the long-term success of traditional treatments. Here, a 3D tumoroid model is used to investigate the metabolic sensitivity of temozolomide (TMZ)-resistant GBM cells to iron chelation by deferoxamine (DFO) and deferiprone (DFP). This work shows that TMZ-resistant GBM cells acquire stem-like characteristics, higher intracellular iron levels, higher expression of aconitase, and elevated reliance on oxidative phosphorylation and proteins associated with iron metabolism. Using a microphysiological model of GBM-on-a-chip consisting of extracellular matrix (ECM)-incorporated tumoroids, this work demonstrates that the combination of iron chelators with TMZ induces a synergistic effect on an in vitro tumoroid model of newly diagnosed and recurrent chemo-resistant patient-derived GBM and reduced their size and invasion. Investigating downstream metabolic variations reveal reduced intracellular iron, increased reactive oxygen species (ROS), upregulated hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha, reduced viability, increased autophagy, upregulated ribonucleotide reductase (RRM2), arrested proliferation, and induced cell death in normoxic TMZ-resistant cells. Hypoxic cells, while showing similar results, display reduced responses to iron deficiency, less blebbing, and an induced autophagic flux, suggesting an adaptive mechanism associated with hypoxia. These findings show that co-treatment with iron chelators and TMZ induces a synergistic effect, making this combination a promising GBM therapy.
PXD056116	40285831	Vitamin D enhances the therapeutic effect of TNF-alpha antibodies through lipid metabolism in overweight IBD patients. 	Vitamin D enhances the therapeutic effect of TNF-alpha antibody by lipid metabolism in overweight IBD	IBD, TNF-alpha, Vitamin D	The inhibitory effects of the tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) antibody infliximab (IFX) on colitis are well established. Since IFX dosing is weight-based and associated with various side effects, there is a growing interest in identifying combination therapies that can enhance its efficacy, particularly in overweight inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients, to maximize the anti-inflammatory effect while minimizing the required dose. Our research revealed that overweight IBD patients present decreased vitamin D levels in the intestinal epithelium alongside elevated TNF-alpha levels. In mice fed a high-fat diet (HFD) for four weeks, treatment with the vitamin D analog palicalcitol (PAL) reduced lipid synthesis and TNF-alpha production in intestinal epithelial cells (IECs). In a 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced experimental colitis model, PAL treatment mitigated TNF-alpha-induced damage to the intestinal epithelial barrier and reduced the activation of Th1 and Th17 cells in the lamina propria, thereby reducing colitis development in HFD-fed mice. Notably, the combination of IFX and PAL was more effective than IFX alone in treating colitis in these mice. Overall, our findings suggest that vitamin D inhibits TNF-alpha production by reducing lipid synthesis in IECs, thereby enhancing IFX therapy in overweight IBD patients.
PXD061919	40286213	Inhibition of Tyrosinase and Melanogenesis by Carboxylic Acids: Mechanistic Insights and Safety Evaluation. 	Proteomics of B16-F10 cells treated by carboxylic acids	3-phenyllactic acid, L-pyroglutamic acid, lactic acid, malic acid	It is well established that certain carboxylic acid compounds can effectively inhibit tyrosinase activity. This study investigated the mechanisms by which four carboxylic acid compounds-3-phenyllactic acid, lactic acid, L-pyroglutamic acid, and malic acid-inhibit tyrosinase and melanogenesis. IC50 values for mushroom tyrosinase inhibition ranged from 3.38 to 5.42 mM, with 3-phenyllactic acid (3.50 mM), lactic acid (5.42 mM), and malic acid (3.91 mM) exhibiting mixed-type inhibition, while L-pyroglutamic acid (3.38 mM) showed competitive inhibition, as determined by enzymatic kinetic analysis. Additionally, the acidification effects of lactic acid, L-pyroglutamic acid, and malic acid contributed to the reduction in tyrosinase activity. Furthermore, all four carboxylic acid compounds effectively inhibited DOPA auto-oxidation (IC50 = 0.38-0.66 mM), ranking in potency as follows: malic acid (0.38 mM) > lactic acid (0.57 mM) > 3-phenyllactic acid (0.63 mM) > L-pyroglutamic acid (0.66 mM). These compounds also demonstrated a dose-dependent reduction in melanin production in B16-F10 cells. Proteomic analysis further revealed that these compounds not only inhibit key proteins involved in melanin synthesis, such as tyrosinase, tyrosinase-related protein 1, and tyrosinase-related protein 2, but also potentially modulate other genes associated with melanogenesis and metabolism, including Pmel, Slc45a2, Ctns, Oca2, and Bace2. Network toxicology analysis indicated that these four compounds exhibit a low risk of inducing dermatitis. These findings suggest that these compounds may indirectly regulate melanin-related pathways through multiple mechanisms, highlighting their potential for further applications in cosmetics and pharmaceuticals.
PXD062910	40286848	Discovery and biochemical characterization of the D-aspartyl endopeptidase activity of the serine protease LACTB. 	Identification of proteins present in LACTB solutions overexpressed and purified from E.coli by LC-MS/MS.	D-aspartyl endopeptidase, LACTB	Non-enzymatic D-isomerization of aspartic acid in proteins has been observed in lesions associated with age-related diseases, including cataracts and Alzheimer's disease. Given that D-isomerization of Asp disrupts the physiological conformation of proteins, it has been postulated that D-isomerization of Asp in proteins is a key factor in the pathogenesis of age-related diseases. D-Aspartyl endopeptidase (DAEP) activity, which cleaves proteins at the carboxy terminus of D-Asp and potentially induces degradation of abnormal proteins with D-isomerized Asp, has been observed in mitochondrial fractions of mammalian tissues. However, the specific proteins responsible for mammalian DAEP activity remain unknown. In this study, we identified mitochondrial serine beta-lactamase-like protein (LACTB) as the first mammalian protein with DAEP activity by structural comparison with paenidase, a bacterial DAEP. LACTB exhibited DAEP activity similar to paenidase in an in vitro assay. In addition, LACTB cleaved a 10-residue peptide derived from amyloid beta1-10 containing D-Asp at position 7, which was also observed with mammalian DAEP. LACTB has previously been characterized as a tumor suppressor and as a protein whose increased expression is associated with an increased risk of Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, our findings suggest that disruption of the proteostasis of D-Asp-containing proteins may underlie the pathogenesis of these diseases.
PXD055576	40286851	The Late-Stage Steps of Burkholderia cenocepacia Protein O-Linked Glycan Biosynthesis Are Conditionally Essential. 	Blockage of O-linked glycan biosynthesis in Burkholderia is toxic: Tn7_ogcI_validation	Burkholderia, glycosylation	Periplasmic O-linked protein glycosylation is a highly conserved process observed across the Burkholderia genus. Within Burkholderia, protein glycosylation requires the five gene cluster known as the O-glycosylation cluster (OGC, ogcXABEI) which facilitates the construction of the O-linked trisaccharide attached to periplasmic proteins. Previous studies have reported conflicting results regarding the essentiality of ogcA, predicted to be responsible for the addition of the final carbohydrate of the O-linked trisaccharide and ogcX, the putative O-linked glycan flippase. Within this work, we aimed to dissect the impact of the loss of ogcA and ogcX on Burkholderia cenocepacia viability. We demonstrate that the loss of either ogcA or ogcX are detrimental if glycosylation is initiated leading to marked phenotypic effects. Proteomic analysis supports that the loss of ogcA/ogcX both blocks glycosylation and drives pleotropic effects in the membrane proteome, resulting in the loss of membrane integrity. Consistent with this, strains lacking ogcA and ogcX exhibit increased sensitivity to membrane stressors including antibiotics and demonstrate marked changes in membrane permeability. These effects are consistent with fouling of the undecaprenyl pool due to dead-end O-linked glycan intermediates, and consistent with this, we show that modulation of the undecaprenyl pool through the overexpression of undecaprenyl pyrophosphate synthase (UppS) or the OGC flippase (OgcX) restores viability while expression of early-stage OGC biosynthesis genes (ogcI and ogcB) reduce B. cenocepacia viability. These findings demonstrate disrupting O-linked glycan biosynthesis or transport appears to dramatically impact B. cenocepacia viability, supporting the assignment of ogcA and ogcX as conditionally essential.
PXD062384	40287094	Proteomic Analysis and 2-Hydroxyisobutyrylation Profiling in Metabolic Syndrome Induced Restenosis. 	Human Femoral Artery Proteome and 2-Hydroxyisobutyrylation Analysis in Metabolic Syndrome Induced Restenosis	Restenosis, metabolic syndrome	Restenosis is the primary complication following stenting for coronary and peripheral arterial disease (PAD), posing an ongoing clinical challenge. Metabolic syndrome (MetS), characterized by metabolic disturbances, has been identified as an independent predictor for postoperative restenosis in coronary and carotid arteries, potentially due to endothelial dysfunction and augmented oxidative stress in cells, while its specific regulatory mechanism is still largely unknown. Lysine 2-hydroxyisobutyrylation (Khib), a recently identified post-translational modification, plays a crucial role in transcriptional regulation and cellular metabolism. However, there is a lack of comprehensive analysis of the proteome and Khib modifications within restenotic vessels in the context of MetS, as well as in the understanding of the associated pathophysiology. In this study, we observed a significant upregulation of Khib in restenotic arteries induced by MetS, confirmed by animal and cellular experiments. Further, using high-throughput liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry, we catalogued 15,558 Khib sites across 2,568 proteins, implicating a multitude of biological functions. Analysis revealed 2,007 Khib sites on 1,002 proteins with considerable differential modifications which are present within the cytoplasm and nucleus. Interestingly, proteins located in the mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, and cell membrane also exhibit distinct expression and modification profiles to varying extents that related to vascular smooth muscle contraction, platelet activation, and the PI3K-Akt signaling pathway. Notably, the level of COL1A1 protein detected in the PPI pathway network and the level of Khib modification are diametrically opposed, suggesting a significant role in the disease's pathogenesis. This study provides the first comprehensive proteomic and Khib modification overview of MetS-related in-stent restenosis vasculature, offering key insights to inform novel therapeutic approaches for restenosis mitigation.
PXD028679	40287409	Glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase on old peroxisomes maintains self-renewal of epithelial stem cells after asymmetric cell division. 	Proteomic characterization of sorted peroxisomes	peroxisome	Selective inheritance of sub-cellular components has emerged as a mechanism guiding stem cell fate after asymmetric cell divisions. Peroxisomes play a crucial role in multiple metabolic processes such as fatty acid metabolism and reactive oxygen species detoxification, but the apportioning of peroxisomes during stem cell division remains understudied. Here, we develop a mouse model and labeling technique to follow the dynamics of distinct peroxisome age-classes, and find that old peroxisomes are inherited by the daughter cell retaining full stem cell potency in mammary and epidermal stem cell divisions. Old peroxisomes carry Glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase, whose specific location on the peroxisomal membrane promotes stem cell function by facilitating peroxisomal ether lipid synthesis. Our study demonstrates age-selective apportioning of peroxisomes in vivo, and unveils how functional heterogeneity of peroxisomes is utilized by asymmetrically dividing cells to metabolically divert the fate of the two daughter cells.
PXD052214	40287828	DYRK1B phosphorylates FOXO1 to promote hepatic gluconeogenesis. 	DYRK1B phosphorylates FOXO1 to promote hepatic gluconeogenesis	DYRK1B, Diabetes, FOXO1, Gluconeogenesis, Phosphorylation	Dual-specificity tyrosine phosphorylation-regulated kinase 1B (DYRK1B), a member of the CMGC group of kinases, is linked to metabolic syndrome, though the underlying molecular mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we show that Dyrk1b expression is induced in the liver by fasting and in diabetic mice. Through both in vivo and in vitro experiments, we demonstrate that DYRK1B promotes hepatic gluconeogenesis and glucose intolerance. Liver-specific Dyrk1b conditional knockout mice were protected from diet-induced hyperglycemia. Mechanistically, DYRK1B interacts with and phosphorylates FOXO1, primarily at Thr467/Ser468, which is essential for its nuclear localization. Additionally, DYRK1B inhibits AKT-mediated FOXO1 phosphorylation at Thr24 and Ser256, enhancing its nuclear retention. DYRK1B-mediated phosphorylation increases the expression of gluconeogenic genes and promotes gluconeogenesis. Further, AZ191, a pharmacological inhibitor of DYRK1B, significantly reduced blood glucose levels in diabetic mice. Collectively, these findings provide new insights into the role of DYRK1B in glucose metabolism and identify it as a new therapeutic target for treating diabetes.
PXD058971	40287848	Multi-omics Analysis Sheds Light on the Extracellular Role of PCMT1. 	Multi-omics Analysis Shed Light on the Extracellular Role of PCMT1	Extracellular, Isoaspartate, Multi-omics, PCMT1, Stress condition	Proteins are constantly damaged by intracellular and extracellular factors, particularly under stress conditions, leading to an accumulation of modified proteins such as isoaspartate (isoD), which is linked to aging and various diseases. The repair enzyme PCMT1 (protein-l-isoaspartate o-methyltransferase) specifically restores isoD residues to aspartate, preventing abnormal protein functions. Despite its importance, its role in non-neural tissues remains underexplored. This study employed isoD-proteomics, global proteomics, and transcriptomics on Pcmt1 knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice, revealing significant gene and protein changes in various KO tissues, enriched in extracellular and membrane-related categories, highlighting genome-proteome correlations. IsoD-carrying proteins were increased in KO tissues, predominantly consisting of long-lived proteins. Additionally, the proteomic analysis of PCMT1-overexpressing cells identified interacting proteins mainly in extracellular and membrane-related categories. These findings revealed both tissue-specific and shared roles of PCMT1, emphasizing its importance in maintaining protein integrity under physiological and stress conditions while also uncovering an unexpected extracellular function of PCMT1.
PXD050244	40287947	Blocking Nitrosylation Induces Immunogenic Cell Death by Sensitizing NRAS-Mutant Melanoma to MEK Inhibitors. 	Nitrosylation-mediated regulation of MEK-ERK signaling in the NRAS-mutant melanoma	Cancer, MAP Kinase, Melanoma, Nitrosylation, Signaling	Activating NRAS mutations occur in 15-25% of all melanomas. However, this subtype remains refractory to existing therapeutics, including immunotherapy and RAS inhibitors; therefore, identifying innovative treatment strategies is of utmost importance. We investigated the role of nitrosylation, a nitric oxide-induced post-translational modification, in melanoma progression and therapeutic resistance. Inhibiting nitrosylation sensitized NRAS-mutant melanomas to targeted MEK inhibitors (MEKi), leading to sustained downregulation of the ERK-MAPK pathway, along with concomitant de-nitrosylation of NRAS, MEK, ERK, RSK1, and DUSPs. Global nitrosylome profiling using mass-spectrometry revealed nitrosylation of multiple ERK regulators. Gain- and loss-of-function studies confirmed a positive association between nitrosylation and ERK activation. ERK and MEK proteins harbored potential nitrosylation sites, mutation of which abrogated their phosphorylation and inhibited cell growth. The nitrosylome also contained death-associated molecular patterns (DAMPs), factors known to induce immunogenic cell death (ICD). Notably, nitrosylation inhibition combined with MEKi markedly inhibited Nras-mutant melanoma growth in an immunocompetent mouse model. This was accompanied by downregulated MEK-ERK signaling and extracellular release of DAMPs like calreticulin, phospho-eIF2alpha, and HMGB1, confirming ICD induction. Furthermore, the combination significantly increased the repertoire of CD8+ T cells, dendritic cells (DCs), and macrophages in the tumor microenvironment, which was validated in co-cultures of DCs and T-lymphocytes. In conclusion, the current study demonstrates that nitrosylation inhibition sensitizes NRAS-mutant melanomas to targeted MEKi-induced cell death and causes the release of non-nitrosylated (active) DAMPs that induce a potent anti-melanoma immune response via ICD. These findings highlight potential therapeutic vulnerabilities in the currently untreatable NRAS-mutant melanoma subtype.
PXD061959	40289129	Nuclear mitochondrial acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase 1 orchestrates natural killer cell-dependent antitumor immunity in colorectal cancer. 	the MS data involved in the article "Nuclear ACAT1 orchestrates natural killer cell-dependent antitumor immunity in colorectal cancer"	ACAT1, Cancer immunology, Cancer metabolism, Colorectal cancer, NK cell immunity	Tumor metabolism often interferes with the immune microenvironment. Although natural killer (NK) cells play pivotal roles in antitumor immunity, the connection between NK cells and tumor metabolism remains unclear. Our systematic analysis of multiomics data and survival data from colorectal cancer (CRC) patients uncovered a novel association between mitochondrial acetyl-CoA acetyltransferase 1 (ACAT1) and NK cell infiltration that influences disease progression. ACAT1, a metabolic enzyme involved in reversible conversion of acetoacetyl-CoA to two molecules of acetyl-CoA, exhibits nuclear protein acetylation activity through its translocation. Under immune stimulation, mitochondrial ACAT1 can be phosphorylated at serine 60 (S60) and enters the nucleus; however, this process is hindered in nutrient-poor tumor microenvironments. Nuclear ACAT1 directly acetylates lysine 146 of p50 (NFKB1), attenuating its DNA binding and transcriptional repression activity and thereby increasing the expression of immune-related factors, which in turn promotes NK cell recruitment and activation to suppress colorectal cancer growth. Furthermore, significant associations are found among low nuclear ACAT1 levels, decreased S60 phosphorylation, and reduced NK cell infiltration, as well as poor prognosis in CRC. Our findings reveal an unexpected function of ACAT1 as a nuclear acetyltransferase and elucidate its role in NK cell-dependent antitumor immunity through p50 acetylation.
PXD058797	40290335	Affinity peptide ligands: new tools for chasing non-canonical N-phosphoproteome. 	Affinity peptide ligands: New tools for chasing non-canonical N-phosphoproteome	Affinity Peptide, N-phosphopeptides Enrichment, Neutral Aqueous Solution (or organelle), Phage Display Technology, Quantitation Analysis	The enrichment of protein N-phosphorylation encounters substantial challenges due to the inherent instability of the N-P bond, severely impeding the manifestation of its biological functions. Traditional enrichment methods often rely on antibodies, organic solvents and metal ion interactions, which are limited by lack of universality, potential degradation of sample integrity, or reduced selectivity for N-phosphorylation. To overcome these challenges, we innovatively capitalized phage display technology to identify affinity peptides that specifically bind to the N-PO3 group. By functionalizing magnetic nanoparticles with the affinity peptide, we developed a novel, organic solvent- and metal-free enrichment strategy that enhanced both the selectivity and efficiency for all three types of N-phosphopeptide capture under neutral conditions, ensuring superior preservation of sample integrity and allowing more accurate proteomic analysis. This strategy has demonstrated robust enrichment capabilities for both prokaryotic and eukaryotic samples. In HeLa cells, 1995 novel N-phosphorylation sites were identified, representing a substantial increase of 2- to 5-fold in detection depth over previous approaches and significantly expanding the scale of the N-phosphoproteome database. Additionally, it was discovered that N-phosphorylation modification was highly concentrated in the nucleus. By integrating the nuclear isolation technique, 1296 N-phosphorylation sites were identified for the first time, offering new leads for uncovering the functions of N-phosphorylation in nuclear proteins. Finally, in conjunction with the quantitative proteomics method, the dynamic changes in N-phosphorylation modification during the progression of Alzheimer's disease were investigated, providing fresh perspectives on the research of AD pathogenesis. Overall, this work not only presents a new approach for efficient enrichment of N-phosphopeptides but also advances the functional study of N-phosphorylated proteins in physiological and pathological processes.
PXD059976	40291004	Profiling of the Peripheral Blood Mononuclear Cells Proteome by Shotgun Proteomics Identifies Alterations of Immune System Components, Proteolytic Balance, Autophagy, and Mitochondrial Metabolism in Glaucoma Subjects. 	Profiling of the proteome of peripheral blood mononuclear cells of subjects diagnosed with primary open angle glaucoma	Immune system, glaucoma, peripheral blood mononuclear cells, shot gun proteomics	Glaucoma is a chronic optic neuropathy and is the second cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. Although the pathogenesis of the disease is not fully understood, the death of retinal ganglion cells and degeneration of the optic nerve are likely promoted by a combination of local and systemic factors. Growing attention has been paid to nonintraocular pressure risk factors, including mechanisms of inflammation and neuroinflammation. Phenotypical and molecular alterations of circulating immune cells, in particular, lymphocyte subsets, have been documented in murine models of glaucoma and in human subjects. Very recently, oxygen consumption rate and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide levels of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) have been proposed as biomarkers of disease progression, thus suggesting that immune cells of glaucoma subjects present severe molecular and metabolic alterations. In this framework, this pilot study aimed to be the first to characterize global proteome perturbations of PBMC of patients with primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) compared to nonglaucomatous controls (control) by shotgun proteomics. The approach identified >4,500 proteins and a total of 435 differentially expressed proteins between POAG and control subjects. Clustering and rationalization of proteomic data sets and immunodetection of selected proteins by Western blotting highlighted significant alterations of immune system compartments (i.e., complement factors, regulators of immune functions, and lymphocyte activation) and pathways serving key roles for immune system such as proteolysis (i.e., matrix metalloproteinases and their inhibitors), autophagy (i.e., beclin-1 and LC3B), cell proliferation (Bcl2), mitochondrial (i.e., sirtuin), and energetic/redox metabolism (i.e., NADK). Based on these findings, this proteomic study suggests that circulating immune cells suffer from heterogeneous alterations of central pathways involved in cell metabolism and homeostasis. Larger, properly designed studies are required to confirm specifically how immune cellular alterations may be involved in the pathogenesis of both neuroinflammation and glaucomatous disease.
PXD059674	40291674	Post-transcriptional regulator HuR promotes immune evasion in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. 	Pancreatic cancer-intrinsic HuR regulates the pro-tumorigenic properties of extracellular vesicles	Pancreatic cancer-intrinsic HuR regulates the pro-tumorigenic properties of extracellular vesicles	The tumor microenvironment (TME) of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC) is characterized by a limited infiltration of tumor-specific T cells and anti-tumor T cell activity. Extracellular factors in the PDAC TME have been widely reported to mediate immune suppression, but the contribution from tumor-intrinsic factors is not well understood. The RNA-binding protein, HuR (ELAVL1), is enriched in PDAC and negatively correlates with T cell infiltration. In an immunocompetent Kras-p53-Cre (KPC) orthotopic model of PDAC, we found that genetic disruption of HuR impaired tumor growth due to a novel role of HuR inducing T-cell suppression. Importantly, we found that HuR depletion in tumors enhanced both T cell number and activation states and diminished myeloid phenotypes by comprehensive spatial profiling of the PDAC TME. Mechanistically, HuR mediated the stabilization of mTOR pathway transcripts, and inhibition of mTOR activity rescued the impaired function of local T cells. Translating these findings, we demonstrated that HuR depletion sensitized PDAC tumors to immune checkpoint blockade, while isogenic, wildtype tumors are resistant. For the first time, we show that HuR facilitates tumor immune suppression in PDAC by inhibiting T cell infiltration and function and implicate targeting HuR as a potential therapeutic strategy in combination with immunotherapy.
PXD051014	40291949	Profiling the LAM Family of Contact Site Tethers Provides Insights into Their Regulation and Function. 	Profiling the LAM family of contact-site tethers provides mechanistic insights into their regulation and function	ABOLISH, LAM protein family, endoplasmic reticulum, membrane contact sites, proximity labelling	Membrane contact sites are molecular bridges between organelles that are sustained by tethering proteins and enable organelle communication. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane harbors many distinct families of tether proteins that enable the formation of contacts with all other organelles. One such example is the LAM (Lipid transfer protein Anchored at Membrane contact sites) family in yeast, which is composed of six members, each containing a putative lipid binding and transfer domain and an ER-embedded transmembrane segment. The family is divided into three homologous pairs each unique in their molecular architecture and localization to different ER subdomains. However, what determines the distinct localization of the different LAMs and which specific roles they carry out in each contact are still open questions. To address these, we utilized a labeling approach to profile the proximal protein landscape of the entire family. Focusing on unique, candidate interactors we could support that Lam5 resides at the ER-mitochondria contact site and demonstrate a role for it in sustaining mitochondrial activity. Capturing shared, putative interactors of multiple LAMs, we show how the Lam1/3 and Lam2/4 paralogous pairs could be associated specifically with the plasma membrane. Overall, our work provides new insights into the regulation and function of the LAM family members. More globally it demonstrates how proximity labeling can help identify the shared or unique functions of paralogous proteins.
PXD053022	40295335	Dysregulated skeletal muscle myosin super-relaxation and energetics in male participants with type 2 diabetes mellitus. 	Dysregulated Skeletal Muscle Myosin Super-relaxation in Type II, but Not Type I, Diabetes Mellitus	Diabetes, Skeletal muscle, single muscle fiber	AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Disrupted energy balance is critical for the onset and development of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Understanding of the exact underlying metabolic mechanisms remains incomplete, but skeletal muscle is thought to play an important pathogenic role. As the super-relaxed state of its most abundant protein, myosin, regulates cellular energetics, we aimed to investigate whether it is altered in individuals with type 2 diabetes. METHODS: We used vastus lateralis biopsy specimens (obtained from patients with type 2 diabetes and control participants with similar characteristics), and ran a combination of structural and functional assays consisting of loaded 2'- (or 3')-O-(N-methylanthraniloyl)-ATP (Mant-ATP) chase experiments, x-ray diffraction and LC-MS/MS proteomics in isolated muscle fibres. RESULTS: Our studies revealed a greater muscle myosin super-relaxation and decreased ATP demand in male participants with type 2 diabetes than in control participants. Subsequent proteomic analyses indicated that these (mal)adaptations probably originated from remodelled sarcomeric proteins and greater myosin glycation levels in patients than in control participants. CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: Overall, our findings indicate a complex molecular dysregulation of myosin super-relaxed state and energy consumption in male participants with type 2 diabetes. Ultimately, pharmacological targeting of myosin could benefit skeletal muscle and whole-body metabolic health through enhancement of ATP consumption. DATA AVAILABILITY: The raw MS data have been deposited to the ProteomeXchange Consortium via the PRIDE partner repository with the dataset identifier PXD053022.
PXD046857	40295505	Investigative needle core biopsies support multimodal deep-data generation in glioblastoma. 	Investigative needle core biopsies support multimodal deep-data generation in glioblastoma	Glioblastoma, immunopeptidomics, metabolomics, multi-omics, sampling variance, single cell sequencing, spatial, stereotactic biopsy	Glioblastoma (GBM) is an aggressive primary brain cancer with few effective therapies. Stereotactic needle biopsies are routinely used for diagnosis; however, the feasibility and utility of investigative biopsies to monitor treatment response remains ill-defined. Here, we demonstrate the depth of data generation possible from routine stereotactic needle core biopsies and perform highly resolved multi-omics analyses, including single-cell RNA sequencing, spatial transcriptomics, metabolomics, proteomics, phosphoproteomics, T-cell clonotype analysis, and MHC Class I immunopeptidomics on standard biopsy tissue obtained intra-operatively. We also examine biopsies taken from different locations and provide a framework for measuring spatial and genomic heterogeneity. Finally, we investigate the utility of stereotactic biopsies as a method for generating patient-derived xenograft (PDX) models. Multimodal dataset integration highlights spatially mapped immune cell-associated metabolic pathways and validates inferred cell-cell ligand-receptor interactions. In conclusion, investigative biopsies provide data-rich insight into disease processes and may be useful in evaluating treatment responses.
PXD045608	40295817	FTDC1/2, oocyte-specific cofactors of DNMT1 required for epigenetic regulation and embryonic development. 	Ftdc1/2, maternal-effect genes required for methylation maintenance and embryonic development	DNA methyltransferase, Oocyte, embryo, epigenetics, maternal factor	The unique epigenetic patterns during gametogenesis and embryonic development indicate the existence of specialized methylation machinery. In the present study, we describe the discovery of two oocyte-specific cofactors of DNA methyltransferase 1 (DNMT1), encoded by uncharacterized genes, ferritin domain containing 1 and 2 (Ftdc1 and Ftdc2). Genetic ablation of Ftdc1 or Ftdc2 causes midgestation defects and female infertility. FTDC1 or FTDC2 depletion induces the progressive loss of DNA methylation including imprinted regions in early embryos. This loss correlates with a marked reduction in DNMT1 protein due to increased degradation, likely via the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Mechanistically, we find that FTDC1, FTDC2 and DNMT1 form a complex by direct interactions, thereby stabilizing each other. Surprisingly, knockout of Ftdc1 or Ftdc2 displayed stronger DNA demethylation phenotypes and earlier embryonic lethality than the Dnmt1-null mutant, implying their unique functions. These data suggest that FTDC1/2 are crucial players specifically involved in maintaining genomic methylation during embryogenesis, offering new insights into the epigenetic control of mammalian development.
PXD058297	40295851	Structural dynamics of the dengue virus non-structural 5 (NS5) interactions with promoter stem-loop A (SLA). 	HDX-MS Studies of Dengue Virus Serotype 2 NS5 (DENV2 NS5) and Stem Loop A (SLA) Interactions	HDX-MS, NS5, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), SLA, dengue, flavivirus, polymerase	The dengue virus (DENV) NS5 protein, essential for viral RNA synthesis, is an attractive antiviral drug target. DENV NS5 interacts with the stem-loop A (SLA) promoter at the 5'-untranslated region of the viral genome to initiate negative-strand synthesis. However, the conformational dynamics of this interaction remains unclear. Our study explores the structural dynamics of DENV serotype 2 NS5 (DENV2 NS5) in complex with SLA, employing surface plasmon resonance (SPR), hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), computational modeling, and cryoEM. Our findings reveal that DENV2 NS5 binds SLA in a closed conformation, with interdomain cooperation between its methyltransferase (MTase) and RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) domains, critical for the interaction. SLA binding induces conformational changes in both domains, highlighting NS5's multifunctional role in viral replication. Our cryoEM results visualizes the DENV2 NS5-SLA complex, confirming a conserved SLA binding across DENV serotypes and provides key insights for antiviral strategies targeting NS5's conformational states.
PXD059550	40298108	Mapping effective microRNA pairing beyond the seed using abasic modifications. 	Mapping effective microRNA pairing beyond the seed using abasic modifications	HEK293T, Homo sapiens, miR-34a, miRNA	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small noncoding RNAs that regulate gene expression by base-pairing to complementary sites in messenger RNAs (mRNAs). The primary element for site recognition is the seed region (nucleotides 2-8 in the miRNA), but for a minority of sites pairing outside the seed increases efficiency, with the supplementary region (nucleotides 13-16) typically having the greatest impact. However, the structural determinants of effective pairing outside the seed are not fully understood. Here, we use abasic modified nucleotides to disrupt pairing to residues 13 and 14 of miR-34a and measure the effect of this modification compared to wild-type miR-34a on the cellular transcriptome and proteome using RNA-seq and mass spectrometry. We find that a subset of sites with predicted supplementary pairing are affected by miRNA transfection, with up to two-fold decreases in site repression at the mRNA level. We show that miR-34a 3'-pairing is sensitive to GU wobble pairs in a position-specific manner and favors bulges in the miRNA over the target. These results were validated with luciferase reporter assays. Overall, this study demonstrates a novel methodological approach for elucidating the role of specific miRNA residues in target site selection, advancing our understanding of miRNA-mediated gene regulation.
PXD056046	40298111	METTL3-dependent m6A RNA methylation regulates transposable elements and represses human naive pluripotency through transposable element-derived enhancers. 	METTL3-dependent m6A RNA Methylation Regulates Transposable Elements and Represses Human Nave Pluripotency through Transposable Element-derived Enhancers	METTL3, hEPSCs	N 6-methyladenosine (m6A) is the most prevalent messenger RNA modification with diverse regulatory roles in mammalian cells. While its functions are well-documented in mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs), its role in human pluripotent stem cells (hPSCs) remains to be fully explored. METTL3 is the main enzyme responsible for m6A deposition. Here, using a METTL3 inducible knockout (iKO) system, we uncovered that, unlike in mESCs, METTL3 was indispensable for hPSC maintenance. Importantly, loss of METTL3 caused significant upregulation of pluripotency factors including naive pluripotency genes and failure to exit pluripotency, thus impairing stem cell differentiation towards both embryonic and extraembryonic cell lineages. Mechanistically, METTL3 iKO in hPSCs promoted expression and enhancer activities of two primate-specific transposable elements (TEs), SVA_D and HERVK/LTR5_Hs. At SVA_D elements, loss of METTL3 leads to reduced H3K9me3 deposition. On the other hand, the activation of LTR5_Hs in the METTL3 iKO cells is accompanied by increased chromatin accessibility and binding pluripotency factors. The activated SVA_D and LTR5_Hs elements can act as enhancers and promote nearby naive gene expression by directly interacting with their promoters. Together these findings reveal that METTL3-dependent m6A RNA methylation plays critical roles in suppressing TE expression and in regulating the human pluripotency network.
PXD060733	40299488	Nucleus Accumbens Proteome Disbalance in an Adolescent Mouse Model of Schizophrenia and Nicotine Misuse Comorbidity. 	Nucleus Accumbens proteome disbalance in an adolescent mice model of schizophrenia and nicotine misuse comorbidity	E-cigarette, Human Proteome Project, Nicotine addiction, Prodrome., ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Psychiatric disorder	Background/Objectives: Schizophrenia and nicotine misuse are a comorbid condition that frequently develops during adolescence. Considering the role of the nucleus accumbens (NAcc) as a common neurobiological substrate for these psychiatric disorders, label-free proteomics was employed to identify NAcc deregulated proteins in male and female mouse models of schizophrenia with a history of adolescent nicotine exposure. Methods: Phencyclidine was used to model schizophrenia, and minipump infusions were used to model nicotine misuse. Results: Enrichment Reactome pathway and protein-protein interaction analyses showed that the cytoskeleton and associated synaptic plasticity mechanisms, energy metabolism, and nervous system development were affected in both sexes. In particular, Ncam1 (Neural cell adhesion molecule 1) could be of interest as a candidate marker of synaptic plasticity disbalance. Its deregulation in the NAcc of both sexes suggests that it lies at the core of the comorbidity pathophysiology. When considering sex-selective effects, Cs (Citrate synthase) and Mapk3 (Mitogen-activated protein kinase 3) were identified as exclusively deregulated in female and male mice, respectively. Since both proteins were previously shown to be exclusively deregulated in the medial prefrontal cortex of co-modeled mice, a common mesocortical and mesolimbic system effect can be inferred, supporting the role of aberrant energy metabolism and synaptic plasticity in the comorbidity model. Conclusions: The current data provide insights into the NAcc proteome disbalance in an adolescent preclinical model of combined schizophrenia and nicotine misuse, pointing to relevant pathways and early markers of the comorbidity.
PXD054196	40299646	PAI-1 Interaction with Sortilin Related Receptor-1 is Required for Lung Fibrosis. 	PAI-1 Interaction with Sortilin Related Receptor-1 is Required for Lung Fibrosis	PAI-1, lung fibrosis	Mutation studies of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) have previously implied that PAI-1 promotes lung fibrosis via a vitronectin (VTN) dependent mechanism. In the present study, employing two distinct murine fibrosis models and VTN deficient mice, we find that VTN is not required for PAI-1 to drive lung scarring. This result suggested the existence of a profibrotic interaction involving the VTN-binding site on PAI-1 with an unidentified ligand. Using an unbiased proteomic approach, we identified sortilin related receptor 1 (SorLA) as the most highly enriched PAI-1 binding partner in the fibrosing lung. Investigating the role of SorLA in pulmonary fibrosis demonstrated that deficiency of this protein protected against lung scarring in a murine model. We further found that SorLA is required for PAI-1 to promote scarring in mice, that both SorLA and PAI-1 protein levels are increased in human IPF explants, and that these proteins are associated in IPF tissue. Finally, confocal microscopy shows that expression of SorLA in CHO cells increases cell uptake of PAI-1, and these proteins colocalize in the cytoplasm. Together, these data elucidate a mechanism by which the potent profibrotic mediator PAI-1 drives lung fibrosis and implicate SorLA as a potential therapeutic target in IPF treatment.
PXD045784	40299698	Distantly related bacteria share a rigid proteome allocation strategy with flexible enzyme kinetics. 	E. coli proteome under nutrient limitation	E. coli, nutrient limitation	Bacteria are known to allocate their proteomes according to how fast they grow, and the allocation strategies employed strongly affect bacterial adaptation to different environments. Much of what is currently known about proteome allocation is based on extensive studies of the model organism Escherichia coli. It is not clear how much of E. coli's proteome allocation strategy is applicable to other species, particularly since different species can grow at vastly different rates even in the same growth condition. In this study, we investigate differences in nutrient-dependent proteome allocation programs adopted by several distantly related bacterial species, including Vibrio natriegens, one of the fastest-growing bacteria known. Extensive quantitative proteome characterization across conditions reveals an invariant allocation program in response to changing nutrients despite systemic, species-specific differences in enzyme kinetics. This invariant program is not organized according to the growth rate but is based on a common internal metric of nutrient quality after scaling away species-specific differences in enzyme kinetics, with the faster species behaving as if it is growing under a higher temperature. The flexibility of enzyme kinetics and the rigidity of proteome allocation programs across species defy common notions of evolvability and resource optimization. Our results suggest the existence of a blueprint of proteome allocation shared by diverse bacterial species, with implications on common underlying regulatory strategies. Further knowledge on the existence and organization of such phylogeny-transcending relations also promises to simplify the bottom-up description and understanding of bacterial behaviors in ecological communities.
PXD060156	40300855	Immunopeptidomics identified antigens for mRNA-lipid nanoparticle vaccines with alpha-galactosylceramide in multiple myeloma therapy. 	Exploring omics-identified antigens and mRNA-lipid nanoparticle vaccines with alpha-galactosylceramide for multiple myeloma therapy	cancer, immunopeptidomics, myeloma	BACKGROUND: Invariant natural killer T (iNKT) cells and CD8(+) T cells are key in the immune response against multiple myeloma (MM), a largely incurable blood cancer. Immunization is a promising strategy to activate these T cell populations. To our knowledge, immunization with messenger RNA (mRNA) and the iNKT agonist, alpha-galactosylceramide (alphaGC), has not been studied in MM, as knowledge on clinically relevant antigens in preclinical MM models is lacking. METHODS: Microarray data and immunopeptidomics (imPep) were used to identify candidate antigens for immunization in 5TMM models. Galsomes, lipid nanoparticles containing antigen mRNA and alphaGC were used to immunize 5T33MM-bearing mice. This treatment was combined with a CD40 agonist. Tumor burden and activation of iNKT cells and CD8(+) T cells were studied using M-protein electrophoresis, flow cytometry and ELISA. RESULTS: RNA transcripts revealed survivin as a candidate antigen. Prime-boost Galsomes therapy targeting survivin significantly reduced M-protein levels despite low survivin-specific T cell responses. Further analysis showed potential T cell fratricide. ImPep revealed HSP60, Idiotype, PICALM and EF1A1 as candidate antigens. Prime-boost therapy with Galsomes targeting these antigens reduced MM growth significantly when combined with a CD40 agonist, coinciding with significantly improved antigen presentation, costimulation and cytotoxicity of iNKT cells and CD8(+) T cells. CONCLUSION: These findings highlight the potential of Galsomes, an mRNA vaccine designed to activate CD8(+) T cells and iNKT cells, for MM therapy, and emphasize the importance of combinatorial approaches, addressing immune anergy for effective MM immunotherapies.
PXD061050	40301572	Time-resolved mitochondrial screen identifies regulatory components of oxidative metabolism. 	Time-resolved mitochondrial-focused screening identifies regulatory components of oxidative metabolism	mitochondrial diseases, oxidative metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation	Defects in mitochondrial oxidative metabolism underlie many genetic disorders with limited treatment options. The incomplete annotation of mitochondrial proteins highlights the need for a comprehensive gene inventory, particularly for Oxidative Phosphorylation (OXPHOS). To address this, we developed a CRISPR/Cas9 loss-of-function library targeting nuclear-encoded mitochondrial genes and conducted galactose-based screenings to identify novel regulators of mitochondrial function. Our study generates a gene catalog essential for mitochondrial metabolism and maps a dynamic network of mitochondrial pathways, focusing on OXPHOS complexes. Computational analysis identifies RTN4IP1 and ECHS1 as key OXPHOS genes linked to mitochondrial diseases in humans. RTN4IP1 is found to be crucial for mitochondrial respiration, with complexome profiling revealing its role as an assembly factor required for the complete assembly of complex I. Furthermore, we discovered that ECHS1 controls oxidative metabolism independently of its canonical function in fatty acid oxidation. Its deletion impairs branched-chain amino acids (BCAA) catabolism, disrupting lipoic acid-dependent enzymes such as pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH). This deleterious phenotype can be rescued by restricting valine intake or catabolism in ECHS1-deficient cells.
PXD056251	40301616	The protein deacetylase HDAC10 controls DNA replication in malignant lymphoid cells. 	Global acetylomic changes induced by HDAC10 inhibitor in acute lymphoid leukemia cells	Acute lymphoid leukemia, HDAC10, LC-MS, Lysine acetylation	Histone deacetylases (HDACs) comprise a family of 18 epigenetic modifiers. The biologically relevant functions of HDAC10 in leukemia cells are enigmatic. We demonstrate that human cultured and primary acute B cell/T cell leukemia and lymphoma cells require the catalytic activity of HDAC10 for their survival. In such cells, HDAC10 controls a MYC-dependent transcriptional induction of the DNA polymerase subunit POLD1. Consequently, pharmacological inhibition of HDAC10 causes DNA breaks and an accumulation of poly-ADP-ribose chains. These processes culminate in caspase-dependent apoptosis. PZ48 does not damage resting and proliferating human normal blood cells. The in vivo activity of PZ48 against ALL cells is verified in a Danio rerio model. These data reveal a nuclear function for HDAC10. HDAC10 controls the MYC-POLD1 axis to maintain the processivity of DNA replication and genome integrity. This mechanistically defined "HDAC10ness" may be exploited as treatment option for lymphoid malignancies.
PXD061711	40301653	Whole-exome tumor-agnostic ctDNA analysis enhances minimal residual disease detection and reveals relapse mechanisms in localized colon cancer. 	INCLIVA-CC-Mass-Spectromety: Primary and metastatic colon cancer tumors	LC-MS/MS, colon cancer	In stage 2-3 colon cancer (CC), postsurgery circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) assessment is crucial for guiding adjuvant chemotherapy (ACT) decisions. While existing assays detect ctDNA and help identify high-risk persons with CC for recurrence, their limited sensitivity after surgery poses challenges in deciding on ACT. Additionally, a substantial portion of persons with CC fail to clear ctDNA after ACT, leading to recurrence. In this study, we performed whole-exome sequencing (WES) of ctDNA at different time points in participants with relapsed CC in two independent cohorts, alongside transcriptomic and proteomic analyses of metastases, to enhance comprehension of progression mechanisms. A plasma WES-based tumor-agnostic assay demonstrated higher sensitivity in detecting minimal residual disease (MRD) compared to current assays. Immune evasion appears to be the primary driver of progression in the localized CC setting, indicating the potential efficacy of immunotherapy for microsatellite stability in persons with CC. Organoid modeling further supports the promising potential of targeted therapy in eradicating MRD, surpassing conventional treatments.
PXD061464	40301684	Extracellular vesicles of minimalistic Mollicutes as mediators of immune modulation and horizontal gene transfer. 	Extracellular Vesicles of Minimalistic Mollicutes as Mediators of Immune Modulation and Horizontal Gene Transfer	Extracellular vesicles, Mycoplasma	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are central components of bacterial secretomes, including the small, cell wall-less Mollicutes. Although EV release in Mollicutes has been reported, EV proteomic composition and function have not been explored yet. We developed a protocol for isolating EVs of the pathogens Mycoplasma mycoides subsp. capri (Mmc) and Mycoplasma (Mycoplasmopsis) bovis and examined their functionality. Proteomic analysis demonstrated that EVs mirror the proteome of the EV-producing bacteria. EVs exhibited nuclease activity, effectively digesting both circular and linear DNA. Notably, M. bovis EVs elicited immune responses in bovine primary blood cells, like those induced by live M. bovis. Our findings reveal that EVs can carry plasmids and enable their horizontal transfer, known as vesiduction. Specifically, the natural plasmid pKMK1, with an unknown transmission route, was detected in EVs of Mmc 152/93 and the tetM-containing pIVB08 plasmid was associated with EVs released by an Mmc GM12 strain carrying this plasmid. pIVB08 could be transferred via homo- and heterologous vesiduction to Mmc, M. capricolum subsp. capricolum and M. leachii. Vesiduction was impeded by membrane disruption but resisted DNase and Proteinase K treatment, suggesting that EVs protect their cargo. These findings enhance our understanding of Mollicutes EVs, particularly in host interactions and horizontal gene transfer.
PXD057506	40301709	Klebsiella pneumoniae under xylose pressure: the growth adaptation, antimicrobial susceptibility, global proteomics analysis and role of XylA and XylB proteins. 	Comparison of the significantly differentially expressed protein between K2044, K2044-8Xyl-60G, K2044-XylA and K2044-XylB treated with 8% xylose	K. pneumoniae, xylose	Klebsiella pneumoniae can be cultured in medium with xylose as the sole carbon source. However, the effect of xylose exposure on its growth adaptation, virulence, antimicrobial susceptibility, and proteomic response remain unclear. Here, we show that low concentrations of xylose (<= 2%) promote the planktonic growth of three K. pneumoniae isolates (K2044, EKP19, and EKP108) in a concentration-dependent manner, while 8% xylose consistently inhibits their planktonic growth. Notably, the xylose-induced isolate K2044-8Xyl-60G, when exposed to various xylose concentrations, exhibited the longest logarithmic growth phase and the highest optical density (OD) after logarithmic growth, compared to K2044. In contrast, the xylose-induced isolates EKP19 and EKP108 did not successfully reshape growth adaptation under persistent xylose pressure compared to K2044. Additionally, while the growth adaptation of K2044-8Xyl-60G under xylose pressure was confirmed, no amino acid mutations were detected in the functional proteins of this xylose-induced isolate, suggesting that persistent xylose pressure does not cause nonsense mutations in the bacterial genome. Xylose exposure reduced the gentamicin minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) in all three K. pneumoniae isolates (K2044, EKP108, and EKP19) and their xylose-induced derivatives. In a Galleria mellonella infection model, significantly decreased virulence was observed in the xylose-induced isolates of K2044 and EKP19. Proteomic analysis of K2044-8Xyl-60G treated with 8% xylose revealed upregulation of proteins involved in glycolysis, the pentose phosphate pathway, and transmembrane transport. We also constructed K2044-DeltaxylA (with deletion of the xylA gene) and K2044-DeltaxylB (with deletion of the xylB gene). Our data showed that K2044-DeltaxylA exhibited enhanced planktonic growth compared to K2044 when exposed to xylose concentrations of >= 4%, while K2044-DeltaxylB displayed significantly reduced growth capacity regardless of xylose exposure. The virulence of K2044-DeltaxylA was also significantly reduced, as demonstrated by the increased survival rates in G. mellonella infection models. Additionally, xylose exposure strongly enhanced membrane depolarization in both K2044-DeltaxylA and K2044-DeltaxylB compared to the wild-type K2044. Proteomic analysis indicated that the deletion of xylA primarily affected functional proteins related to ribosomes, xylose transmembrane transporters and capsular polysaccharides, while the deletion of xylB impacted the expression of xylose metabolism-related proteins. In conclusion, xylose exposure can reshape the growth adaptation, virulence, and antimicrobial susceptibility of K. pneumoniae in an isolate-specific manner, with xylA playing a more critical role than xylB under high xylose concentrations.
PXD062160	40301937	Comparative evaluation of methods for isolating extracellular vesicles from ICC cell culture supernatants: Insights into proteomic and glycomic analysis. 	Comparative evaluation of methods for isolating extracellular vesicles from ICC cell culture supernatants: Insights into proteomic and glycomic analysis	Cell culture supernatants, Extracellular vesicles, N-glycome	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are nanoscale structures involved in intercellular communication and play a key role in cancer pathology. Intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma (ICC) is a highly invasive malignancy marked by abnormal sialylated glycosylation. Analyzing proteins and glycans in EVs provides insights into ICC molecular subtyping and mechanisms. Optimizing EV isolation methods for ICC-derived EVs enables comprehensive proteomic and glycomic analysis. METHODS: We systematically evaluated five EV isolation methods-Ultracentrifugation (UC), exoEasy, Total Exosome Isolation (TEI), EVtrap, and AeKTA-by analyzing the biophysical properties, proteomic profiles, and glycomic structures of EVs. Subsequently, we applied TMT-based quantitative proteome and light/heavy methylamine labeling for the quantification of sialylated N-glycan linkage isomers to investigate alterations in proteins and N-glycans within EVs secreted by HuCCT1 and HCCC-9810 cells with overexpressing ST6 beta-galactoside alpha2,6-sialyltransferase 1 (ST6GAL1). RESULTS: By evaluating the biophysical properties, proteome, and N-glycome of EVs extracted using five different methods, UC was identified as the optimal approach for this study, as it offered a balance between operational complexity, cost-effectiveness, and the preservation of EVs activity. In this study, a total of 1,928 high-confidence proteins and over 84 high-confidence glycans were quantified. EVs secreted by HuCCT1 and HCCC-9810 cells overexpressing ST6GAL1 exhibited consistent upregulation of 16 proteins, consistent downregulation of 10 proteins, as well as consistent upregulation of 3 glycans and consistent downregulation of 3 glycans. CONCLUSIONS: Quantitative proteomic and glycomic analysis of ICC-derived EVs revealed that ST6GAL1 overexpression led to significant alterations in proteins involved in cancer cell adhesion and glycosylation pathways, along with specific changes in N-glycan structures. Notably, these modifications extended beyond alpha2,6-sialylation, suggesting that interactions between glycosyltransferases and glycans may drive these alterations.
PXD063258	40301939	Multi-omic serum analysis reveals ferroptosis pathways and diagnostic molecular signatures associated with Moyamoya diseases. 	Multi-Omic Serum Analysis Reveals ferroptosis Pathways and Diagnostic Molecular Signatures Associated with Moyamoya Diseases	Biomarkers, Ferroptosis pathway, Metabolomics, Moyamoya disease	Moyamoya disease (MMD) is a rare cerebrovascular disease in humans. Although early revascularization can improve symptoms, it cannot reverse the progression of the disease. The current diagnosis still relies on traditional a Digital Subtraction Angiography (DSA) examination, which is invasive and expensive, leading to delayed diagnosis and affecting treatment timing and patient prognosis. The ability to diagnose MMD early and develop personalized treatment plans can significantly improve the prognosis of patients. Here, we have introduced the research on MMD biomarkers. By integrating proteomics and metabolomics data, we have successfully identified over 1700 features from more than 60 serum samples collected at the onset of symptoms in MMD patients. We use multiple computational strategies to interpret complex information in serum, providing a comprehensive perspective for early diagnosis of MMD. Diagnostic ability of our biomarker is significantly better than previous studies, especially when used in combination. In the study of molecular mechanisms, we found that the ferroptosis pathway was significant disruption in MMD patients, which was also confirmed by transcriptomics data. Finally, we validated the metabolites and proteins associated with ferroptosis pathways, as well as the biomarkers screened by machine learning, using another independent MMD cohort. Our research provides important clues for the diagnosis of MMD, and this assay can identify MMD early, thereby promoting stronger monitoring and intervention.
PXD053123	40301999	Red blood cell-tumor cell interactions promote tumor cell progression. 	Red blood cell-tumor cell interactions promote tumor cell progression	non-small lung cancer	A critical step in the metastatic cascade is the survival of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) within the bloodstream. Although interactions between CTCs and various hematopoietic cells have been described, the role of red blood cells (RBCs) remains underexplored. This study investigated the interactions between tumor cells and RBCs from breast and lung cancer patients, revealing significant phenotypic and functional changes in tumor cells, unlike interactions with RBCs from healthy donors. Tumor cell and patient-derived RBC co-cultures increased tumor cell attachment and induced morphological changes. RBC-primed tumor cells showed increased adhesion, disruption of the endothelial barrier, and invasiveness, both in vitro and in vivo. Global proteome changes, including actin remodeling and VASP accumulation at cell edges, promote directional migration. RBCs from patients with metastatic breast cancer also upregulate PAK4, enhancing migration and epithelial-mesenchymal transition, whereas PAK4 inhibition reduces these effects. Clinically, a higher red blood cell distribution width (RDW) in patients with metastasis is associated with increased CTC counts and poor outcomes. This study highlights the previously unrecognized role of RBCs in promoting metastatic behavior in cancer cells and suggests potential therapeutic targets, such as PAK4, to counteract these effects.
PXD056490	40303351	Serine supplementation suppresses hypoxia-induced pathological retinal angiogenesis. 	Serine supplementation suppresses hypoxia-induced pathological retinal angiogenesis	angiogenesis, neovascularization, retina, retinopathy of prematurity, serine	Rationale: Pathological retinal angiogenesis with irregular and fragile vessels (also termed neovascularization, a response to hypoxia and dysmetabolism) is a leading cause of vision loss in all age groups. This process is driven in part through the energy deficiency in retinal neurons. Sustaining neural retinal metabolism with adequate nutrient supply may help prevent vision-threatening neovascularization. Low circulating serine levels are associated with neovascularization in macular telangiectasia and altered serine/glycine metabolism has been suggested in retinopathy of prematurity. We here explored the role of serine metabolism in suppressing hypoxia-driven retinal neovascularization using oxygen-induced retinopathy (OIR) mouse model. Methods: We administered wild-type C57BL/6J OIR pups with systemic serine or provided the nursing dam with a serine/glycine-deficient diet during the relative hypoxic phase, followed by analysis of retinal vasculature at postnatal (P) 17, the time of peak neovascularization. Retinas from P17 OIR pups with either systemic serine supplementation or vehicle control were subjected to metabolomics, lipidomics, proteomics, and single-cell RNA sequencing. To validate the role of mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation (FAO) and oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) in mediating serine protection against OIR, we treated OIR pups with inhibitors to block FAO or OXPHOS along with either serine or vehicle. The potential transcriptional mediator and pro-angiogenic signals were validated by western blotting. Results: Systemic serine supplementation reduced retinal neovascularization, while maternal dietary serine/glycine deficiency exacerbated it. FAO was essential in mediating serine protective effects, and serine supplementation increased levels of phosphatidylcholine, the most abundant phospholipids in the retina. Serine treatment a) increased the abundance of proteins involved in OXPHOS in retinas, b) increased the expression of mitochondrial respiration-related genes, and c) decreased the expression of pro-angiogenic genes in rod photoreceptor cluster. Serine suppression of retinal neovascularization was dependent on mitochondrial energy production. High mobility group box 1 protein (HMGB1) was identified as a potential key mediator of serine suppression of pro-angiogenic signals in hypoxic retinas. Conclusions: Our findings suggest that serine supplementation may serve as a potential therapeutic approach for neovascular eye diseases by enhancing retinal mitochondrial metabolism and lipid utilization, suppressing the key drivers of uncontrolled angiogenesis.
PXD048046	40304068	Mapping the Interactome of OSCC Prognostic-Associated Proteins NDRG1 and PGK1 Through Proximity Labeling Using TurboID. 	Mapping the interactome of OSCC prognostic-associated proteins NDRG1 and PGK1 through proximity labeling using TurboID	Interactome, NDRG1, Oral cancer, PGK1, Prognostic, Proximity Labeling, TurboID	Oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) is a prevalent type of head and neck cancer, comprising over 90% of all oral malignancies worldwide. The identification of diagnostic and prognostic markers for OSCC is crucial for improving patient outcomes, as early detection and treatment are critical for the successful management of this disease. Previously, we demonstrated that N-myc downstream-regulated gene 1 (NDRG1) and phosphoglycerate kinase 1 (PGK1) are prognostic markers for OSCC; however, their role in OSCC development remains unclear. To investigate this, we used TurboID-based proximity labeling to identify the interactomes of NDRG1 and PGK1 in HEK293 cells. Herein, protein abundance patterns from three time points were used for clustering 364 proteins with a "fast" or "slow" response to biotin. Of these, 65 proteins were also identified in neoplastic islands of OSCC patients from our previous study, and 28 of these proteins have their gene expression associated with prognostic features, including death, metastasis, and relapse. PRM-MS enabled the quantification of 17 of these proteins, providing further evidence of their presence in the OSCC prognostic interactome. Finally, we characterized a prognostic-associated interactome composed of 28 proteins, which enabled the prioritization of candidates that can be further explored in OSCC progression. The mass spectrometry data generated in this study have been deposited in ProteomeXchange with the data set identifier PXD048046.
PXD058604	40305614	Telomere bacteriophages are widespread and equip their bacterial hosts with potent interbacterial weapons. 	Widespread telomere bacteriophages equip their hosts with potent inter-bacterial weapons	Klebsiella, bacteriocin, phages, pore-forming, telocin, telomere phage, toxin-antitoxin	Bacteriophages (phages) are viruses that can kill bacteria, thereby editing and shaping microbial communities. The telomere phages are a curious form using telomere-like structures to replicate their genomes as linear extrachromosomal elements. Here, we find that telomere phages are widely distributed in bacteria, being highly prevalent in Klebsiella species. We establish a model system to investigate telomere phage biology by isolating the virions of telomere phages and infecting naive strains to create isogenic lines with and without a phage. We find that only a small set of telomere phage proteins is expressed in phage-host cells, including a toxin-the telocin-that kills other Klebsiella strains. We identify and validate a set of telocins in the genomes of other prevalent Klebsiella telomere phages. Thus, telomere phages are widespread elements encoding diverse antibacterial weapons and we discuss the prospect of using telocins for precision editing of microbial populations.
PXD055533	40306492	Uncommon N-Glycan Structures in Anhydrobiotic Tardigrades. 	Glycoprotemics for Hypsibius exemplaris	Tardigrate	We characterized the N-glycosylation profiles of anhydrobiotic tardigrades, R. varieornatus and H. exemplaris, identifying high-mannose, paucimannose, and complex-type oligosaccharides, while hybrid-type glycans were undetectable. Notably, paucimannose-type oligosaccharides accounted for 39% of the N-glycans in R. varieornatus and 17% in H. exemplaris, with a substantial proportion of them exhibiting fucosylation of the innermost GlcNAc via an alpha1,6-linkage. This core fucosylation pattern, common to all animals, was observed alongside a distinctive glycosylation signature prominently observed in tardigrades: complex-type glycans lacking galactosylation but containing alpha1,3-fucosylated GlcNAc at non-reducing termini. This structure was more prevalent in H. exemplaris, with 22 out of 87 identified glycoproteins expressing the Fucalpha1,3-GlcNAc motif, including eight induced during anhydrobiosis. Key glycoproteins such as Cu/Zn-superoxide dismutase and papilin, implicated in oxidative stress protection and extracellular matrix remodeling, were among those modified. Comparative analyses reveal that non-reducing terminal alpha1,3-fucosylation in tardigrades is distinct from the mammalian Lewis X antigen and similar structures found in invertebrates, suggesting a unique substrate specificity of fucosyltransferases in these species. Genomic analysis identified homologs of Fut9 and FucTC, indicating potential candidates responsible for this glycosylation pattern. Our findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of glycosylation in tardigrades and its relevance to their extreme stress tolerance.
PXD057196	40306849	Apolipoprotein A1 (CSL112) Increases Lecithin-Cholesterol Acyltransferase Levels in HDL Particles and Promotes Reverse Cholesterol Transport. 	ApoA-I [human] (CSL112) infusion increases LCAT levels in HDL particles and promotes reverse cholesterol transport	CSL112, acute myocardial infarction, high-density lipoprotein, lecithin-cholesterol acyl transferase	Although high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol is inversely correlated with cardiovascular risk, an emerging paradigm is focused on increasing reverse cholesterol transport (RCT) and HDL function via apolipoprotein A1 (ApoA1). The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of ApoA1 (CSL112) infusion on HDL protein composition, cholesterol esterification rate (CER), and cholesterol efflux capacity (CEC) in patients treated after acute myocardial infarction. CSL112 reduced levels of apolipoproteins A2, B, C, and E and serum amyloids A1 and A4, whereas ApoA1, ApoM, and lecithin-cholesterol acyltransferase were significantly elevated. Increased CEC, plasma HDL cholesterol levels, CER, and CEC also were observed in CSL112-treated patients.
PXD062288	40307219	Gibberellin signaling regulates pectin biosynthesis in Arabidopsis. 	Candidate Arabidopsis MYB5-interacting proteins in developing siliques identified by IP-MS	IP-MS, MYB5	Pectin is an abundant polysaccharide with essential roles in various biological processes. Despite considerable advances in understanding the regulatory mechanisms of pectin biosynthesis, the influence of phytohormones on this process remains unclear. Here we report that gibberellins (GA) promotes pectin biosynthesis in Arabidopsis. The DELLA proteins, as GA signaling repressors, interact with TRANSPARENT TESTA GLABRA2 (TTG2) and components of the MYB-bHLH-WD40 (MBW) complex, the key regulators of pectin biosynthesis, to repress their transcriptional regulatory activities. Furthermore, the MBW proteins and TTG2 physically interact and synergistically activate the downstream target GLABRA2, whereas this interaction and collaboration are competitively attenuated by DELLAs. Genetic analyses validate that GA-mediated pectin biosynthesis relies on functional TTG2 and MBW proteins. Moreover, the pectin biosynthesis mediated by the GA-DELLA-MBW-TTG2 module contributes to GA-regulated seedling growth. Our findings reveal the significance of the GA-DELLA-MBW-TTG2 signaling cascade in the regulation of pectin biosynthesis and plant development.
PXD062283	40307879	Molecular landscape of atherosclerotic plaque progression: insights from proteomics, single-cell transcriptomics and genomics. 	Molecular Landscape of Atherosclerotic Plaque Progression: Insights from Proteomics	Carotid Atherosclerotic Plaque, DIA, carotid artery stenosis	BACKGROUNDS: Atherosclerosis is a major contributor to cardiovascular diseases worldwide. Despite advancements in understanding its pathology, significant gaps remain in the molecular characterization of atherosclerotic plaques. This study addresses this gap by extensively profiling the proteomic landscape of carotid atherosclerotic plaques, classified under the American Heart Association (AHA) types IV to VI, to identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets. METHODS: The study employed an integrated approach using data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomics, single-cell RNA sequencing, and Mendelian randomization (MR). A total of 87 human carotid plaques were analyzed to identify and quantify protein expression. These proteins were then mapped to specific regions within the plaques, such as the fibrous cap and lipid core, and further validated in independent samples and single-cell datasets. Furthermore, Mendelian randomization techniques were employed to assess causal relationships between identified proteins levels and ischemic stroke. RESULTS: The proteomic analysis of the 87 carotid plaques revealed 6143 proteins, highlighting diverse expression profiles across different plaque stages. Notably, proteins like CD44 and GAL-1 were predominantly expressed in the fibrous cap, suggesting a role in plaque stability, while TREM2, SMAD3, and IL-6R showed higher expression in the lipid core, indicating involvement in inflammatory processes. These findings were further corroborated by single-cell RNA sequencing, revealing cell-specific expression patterns that align with the observed proteomic data. Additionally, MR analysis indicated the causal role of IL6R, CD44, and SMAD3 in ischemic stroke. CONCLUSIONS: This study provides valuable insights into the progression of atherosclerotic plaques, identifying key proteins that could serve as potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets. It enhances our molecular understanding of atherosclerosis and opens up new avenues for treatment. Additionally, our study demonstrates the accuracy and robustness of proteomics in prioritizing genes associated with plaque-related traits.
PXD054267	40309105	Transcriptomic and proteomic insights into feather keratin degradation by Fervidobacterium. 	Proteomic analysis of Fervidobacterium pennivorans T cultivated on feather or glucose	Fervidobacterium, bacteria, cellular proteome, degradation, enzymes, exoproteome, feather, metabolism	Keratin, one of the most recalcitrant and abundant proteins on Earth, constitutes a challenging and underutilized material for the poultry industry. Although it resists degradation by most commonly available enzymes, natural breakdown occurs through the action of certain fungi and bacteria. This process remains poorly understood, and only a few thermophilic and anaerobic bacteria are known to effectively degrade keratin. Some members of the genus Fervidobacterium have been demonstrated to be effective at degrading feather keratin under high temperatures and anoxic conditions. However, a comprehensive evaluation of their keratinolytic capabilities remains lacking, leaving their potential largely underexplored. In this study, we assessed the keratinolytic activity of all available Fervidobacterium strains. Six strains were active against this recalcitrant substrate, namely Fervidobacterium changbaicum CBS-1(T), Fervidobacterium islandicum H-21(T), Fervidobacterium pennivorans T, Fervidobacterium pennivorans DSM9078(T), Fervidobacterium sp. GSH, and Fervidobacterium sp. 21710. These bacteria were used in a comparative proteomics analysis, grown with either glucose or chicken feathers as the sole carbon source. Similarly, the three most efficient strains, Fervidobacterium pennivorans T, Fervidobacterium sp. GSH, and Fervidobacterium islandicum H-21(T) underwent an in-depth comparative transcriptomics analysis. Among the numerous upregulated proteins and overexpressed genes identified when comparing feather-grown to glucose-grown cells, oxidoreductases and peptidases are key enzymes in the degradation process, suggesting their potential application in enzymatic keratinolytic cocktails for degrading feather keratin.
PXD045451	40309781	A structural element within the 5'UTR of beta-catenin mRNA modulates its translation under hypoxia. 	The GC-rich element withing the 5'UTR of beta-catenin mRNa modulates its translation under hypoxia	Translation, beta-catenin, hypoxia	Tight regulation of translation initiation is crucial for cellular adaptation to environmental changes. Stress conditions like hypoxia trigger translational reprogramming of mRNAs encoding proteins essential for stress recovery and cell survival. Recent studies highlight alternative translation initiation pathways based on specific motifs in mRNA 5' untranslated regions (5'UTRs). Notably, beta-catenin is of particular interest since maintaining its translation promotes cancer cell persistence and plasticity. beta-Catenin, an oncogenic protein, plays a key role in Wnt signalling. Besides dysregulation of the beta-catenin/Wnt pathway, chemotherapy-induced hypoxia leads to abnormal nuclear beta-catenin accumulation, modulating gene expression linked to cancer progression and metastasis. However, the mechanism sustaining beta-catenin translation in stressed cells remains elusive. To explore how beta-catenin mRNA evades global translational blockade in hypoxic cancer cells, we analysed its 5'UTR and identified a translation regulatory element in cellulo. We discovered a GC-rich three-way junction (TWJ) structure within the beta-catenin 5'UTR enhancing its hypoxia-driven translation. A polypurine region within the TWJ anchors eIF4B, eIF4A, and eIF4G2. Importantly, the TWJ makes beta-catenin mRNA translation eIF4A-dependent and sensitive to silvestrol, a selective eIF4A inhibitor and promising anticancer agent. This study elucidates the 5'UTR-driven beta-catenin mechanism under hypoxia, paving the way to inhibit its translation in cancer.
PXD060122	40312345	Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma-derived extracellular vesicles mediate Ca(2)+-dependent platelet activation and aggregation through tissue factor. 	Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma-derived small extracellular vesicles mediate Ca-dependent platelet activation and aggregation through tissue factor	Cancer-associated thrombosis, Coagulation cascade, Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma, Platelet activation, Small extracellular vesicles, Tissue factor	BACKGROUND: Head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) is an aggressive malignancy, characterized by poor clinical outcomes, primarily driven by high rate of locoregional recurrence and metastasis. Extensive heterogeneity among the tumor cells as well as modulation of a highly immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment shape cancer progression. Shedding of extracellular vesicles (EVs) derived from tumor cells is a critical mediator of the disease initiating horizontal transfer of tumor components into platelets. This triggers platelet activation and thromboinflammation fueling tumor progression through multiple mechanisms. METHODS: HNSCC-derived EVs isolated from HNSCC cell lines (SAS, UD-SCC 5) using size exclusion chromatography and characterized via flow cytometry, electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis and Western blotting, were used to induce platelet activation and aggregation, measured by aggregometry, flow cytometry, as well as the release of chemokines and Adenosine triphosphate, which were quantified using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA). Mechanistic investigations included inhibitor assays, thrombin activity measurements, and proteomic analyses. RESULTS: We could show that EVs do not activate platelets through the FcgammaRIIa-IgG axis but platelet activation and aggregation is induced in a calcium-dependent manner, primarily mediated by EV-associated tissue factor. Proteomic analysis confirmed the presence of tissue factor in these vesicles, implicating its involvement in initiating the coagulation cascade, that leads to platelet activation and aggregation. This process was characterized by delayed aggregation kinetics and relied on thrombin activation, as the inhibition of thrombin and its receptors reduced platelet aggregation. HNSCC-derived EVs are pivotal in establishing a prothrombotic environment by promoting platelet activation and aggregation through tissue factor-dependent thrombin generation. CONCLUSION: These findings indicate a therapeutic potential of targeting EV-mediated pathways as a therapeutic approach to alleviate thrombotic complications in HNSCC patients. Subsequent animal studies will be crucial to validate and extend these observations, providing deeper insight into their clinical implications.
PXD063013	40312359	Proteomic signatures and predictive modeling of cadmium-associated anxiety in middle-aged and elderly populations: an environmental exposure association study. 	Study on the spatial effect of peripheral ApoE3 on regulating cadmium binding proteome and mechanism of cognitive impairment in the elderly	Cadmium, Environment-Gene-Protein, aging, cognitive impairment	BACKGROUND: Emerging evidence implicates environmental contaminants such as cadmium (Cd) as modifiable risk factors for anxiety. Despite growing recognition of heavy metal toxicity in neuropsychiatric disorders, the molecular mechanisms linking environmental exposure to anxiety pathogenesis remain poorly understood. METHODS: Based on the established cohort of individuals with cognitive impairment in cadmium-contaminated areas, this cross-sectional association study enrolled 50 middle-aged and elderly hospitalized patients from these regions, adhering to the STROBE guidelines. Blood concentrations of cadmium (Cd), lead (Pb), and mercury (Hg) were analyzed in relation to anxiety severity assessed via the Hamilton Anxiety Rating Scale (HAMA). Plasma proteomic profiling was performed using data-independent acquisition (DIA) quantitative technology with an LC-MS/MS platform (timsTOF Pro, Bruker Daltonics), systematically characterizing 2,531 proteins across all samples. Machine learning techniques, specifically XGBoost and LASSO, were employed to identify biomarkers that were subsequently validated through mediation analysis and animal experiments, allowing for the screening of key protein signatures. Finally, clinical variables were integrated to construct a comprehensive model, which was then thoroughly evaluated. RESULTS: Anxious individuals exhibited significantly higher blood Cd levels than controls (beta = 0.50, 95% CI: 0.07-0.93, p < 0.01), with anxiety positively correlating with depression (r = 0.62, p = 0.003) and inversely with ApoE3 genotype prevalence. Proteomics identified 120 differentially expressed proteins in anxious patients, enriched in oxidative phosphorylation and neurodegenerative pathways. CCDC126 emerged as a cadmium-associated biomarker, validated in rat models exposed to Cd. Combining CCDC126, blood Cd, Pb, and hypertension, a clinical prediction model achieved robust discrimination (AUC = 0.80, validation cohort). CONCLUSIONS: This first integrative environmental-proteomic study highlights cadmium's synergistic role in anxiety pathophysiology and psychiatric comorbidity. The predictive model offers translatable potential for early risk stratification, while CCDC126 provides mechanistic insights for targeted interventions in populations exposed to environmental pollutants.
PXD033619	40312477	ATR regulates OCT4 phosphorylation and safeguards human naive pluripotency. 	Comparative phosphoproteomic analyses of OCT4 protein in hESC	hESC	Under specific conditions, cultured human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) corresponding to primed post-implantation epiblasts can be converted back to a 'naive pluripotency' state that resembles the pre-implantation epiblasts. The core pluripotency factor OCT4 is known to be crucial in regulating different states of pluripotency, but its potential regulatory role in human naive pluripotency remains unexplored. In this study, we systematically mapped out phosphorylation sites in OCT4 protein that are differentially phosphorylated between two states of pluripotency, and further identified ATR as a key kinase that phosphorylated OCT4 in naive but not primed hESCs. The kinase activity levels of ATR in naive hESCs were higher than those in primed hESCs. Ablating cellular ATR activity significantly halted the induction of naive hESCs from their primed counterparts, and increased early apoptotic death of naive hESCs upon UV and CPT treatment. Thus, our work reveals the importance of ATR activity in safeguarding human naive pluripotency, and implicates a potential association of OCT4 phosphorylation, DNA damage sensing and repairing system in regulating different states of pluripotency during early development.
PXD048903	40312493	PILRalpha on tumor cells interacts with the T cell surface protein CD99 to suppress antitumor immunity. 	Targeting PILRalpha, an immune checkpoint mediating T cell suppression, for cancer immunotherapy	CD99, PILRalpha, T-cell, cancer immunotherapy, immune checkpoint	Immune checkpoint blockade using anti-programmed cell death protein 1/programmed cell death 1 ligand 1 antibody effectively targets the tumor-T cell interaction in cancer treatment, yet the overall response rate of less than 30% necessitates the identification of additional immune checkpoints modulating T cell function. Here, we identified the tumor cell-expressed paired immunoglobulin-like type 2 receptor alpha (PILRalpha) as an immune suppressor targeting T cells using high-throughput screening. PILRalpha inhibits T cell activation, proliferation and effector function by targeting CD99, a T cell surface antigen, suppressing ZAP70/NFAT/IL-2/JAK/STAT signaling. A cluster of O-glycosylated serine and threonine residues within the stalk region is critical for PILRalpha-CD99 interactions. Blocking these interactions with a stalk-targeting anti-PILRalpha antibody enhances T cell antitumor immunity and suppresses tumor growth. When combined with programmed cell death protein 1 antibody, anti-PILRalpha antibody shows synergistic tumor suppression. Notably, PILRalpha is highly expressed in several human cancers and predicts poor prognosis. These findings unveil PILRalpha as an immune checkpoint with therapeutic potential for clinical cancer immunotherapy.
PXD059563	40312759	Advances in the study of extracellular vesicles of Naegleria fowleri and their role in contact-independent pathogenic mechanisms. 	Extracellular vesicles released by Naegleria fowleri	amoebae, naegleria, vesicles	BACKGROUND: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are spherical membrane particles released by prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells. EVs produced by pathogenic organisms are known to play a role in host-pathogen interactions; however, despite some reports on Naegleria fowleri EVs, their potential role in inducing cytopathic effects remains poorly understood. In this study, we evaluated the role of N. fowleri EVs in contact-independent pathogenic mechanisms. METHODS: Extracellular vesicles were characterized via transmission electron microscopy, nanoparticle tracking analysis, SDS-PAGE, mass spectrometry, Western blotting, and zymography. EVs internalization by trophozoites and MDCK epithelial cells was also determined. Finally, mammalian cells were coincubated with EVs to evaluate haemolytic activity, epithelial paracellular ionic permeability alterations, and necrosis. RESULTS: Naegleria fowleri extracellular vesicles, ranging from 82.5 to 576.5 nm in size, were isolated, with a mean of 216.8 nm and a mode of 165.3 nm. Proteomic analysis identified 1006 proteins in the EVs, including leishmanolysin, a protein associated with pathogenic mechanisms such as adhesion and enzymatic processes. The proteolytic activity of EVs was found to be primarily due to serine protease. Furthermore, EVs were internalized by both trophozoites and MDCK cells. Additionally, EVs exhibited haemolytic activity in erythrocytes as well as increased ionic permeability and necrosis in MDCK cells 24 h postinteraction. CONCLUSIONS: Naegleria fowleri EVs exhibit proteolytic and haemolytic activity and are internalized by trophozoites and MDCK epithelial cell monolayers, increasing the ionic permeability of the monolayer and inducing necrosis. Furthermore, these vesicles contain molecules associated with pathogenic processes such as leishmanolysin. Our results suggest that EVs facilitate paracellular invasion, migration, and damage caused by trophozoites and play a significant role in pathogenic processes as part of a contact-independent mechanism, which, in conjunction with a contact-dependent mechanism, enhances our understanding of the pathogenicity exhibited by this amphizoic amoeba during its invasion of target tissues.
PXD058513	40313007	Lysine-targeting, Covalent Inhibitors of Bromodomain BD1 of BET Proteins in Live Cells and Animals. 	Lysine-targeting, covalent inhibitors of bromodomain BD1 of BET proteins in live cells and animals	Brds, Chemoproteomic	The bromodomain extra-terminal (BET) family of proteins are valuable therapeutic targets for cancer and other diseases. The adverse events of current pan-BET inhibitors (BETi) make the development of BET BD1- or BD2-selective inhibitors as a fresh avenue to overcome safety challenges. On the basis of various lysine-reactive covalent warheads, herein we report a set of activity-based probes (ABPs; P3-P7) capable of global profiling of ligandable lysines within bromodomains (BRDs) in live cells and animals. Chemoproteomic experiments with P7 which utilizes 2-ethynylbenzaldehyde (EBA) identified 16 endogenous BRDs, thus giving a global landscape of ligandable lysines in BRDs. By further introducing EBA and salicylaldehyde into PLX51107 (a noncovalent BETi), we generated lysine-reactive, irreversible (BDS1-4) and reversible (BDS5-6) BD1 covalent inhibitors. Mass spectrometry and X-ray crystallography confirmed the successful covalent engagement between EBA and K91 near the acetylated lysine (Kac)-binding site of BD1 in BRD4. BDS4 showed 104-fold selectivity for BD1 over BD2 with prolonged anticancer effects. Importantly, BDS4 retained robust activity against fibrosis in cells and animals when compared to RVX-208 (a reported BD2-selective noncovalent inhibitor) which showed only marginal effects. Our work serves as a useful tool to delineate distinct functions of BD1 and BD2 in future studies.
PXD050993	40313523	Tailored phenyl ureas eradicate drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis by targeting mycolic acid cell wall assembly. 	Tailored phenyl ureas eradicate drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis by targeting mycolic acid cell wall assembly	AfBPP, Tuberculosis	Treatment of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infections is a challenging task due to long treatment regiments and a growing number of resistant clinical isolates. To identify new antibiotic hits, we screened a focused library of 400 synthetic compounds derived from a recently discovered molecule with promising anti-mycobacterial activity. A suite of more potent hit molecules was deciphered with sub-micromolar activity. Utilising tailored affinity-based probes for chemical proteomic investigations, we successfully pinpointed the mycolic acid transporter MmpL3 and two epoxide hydrolases, EphD and EphF, also linked to mycolic acid biosynthesis, as specific targets of the compounds. These targets were thoroughly and independently validated by activity assays, under- and overexpression, resistance generation, and proteomic studies. Structural refinement of the most potent hit molecules led to the development of a new lead compound that demonstrates enhanced biological activity in M. tuberculosis, low human cytotoxicity, and improved solubility and oral bioavailability - traits that are often challenging to achieve with anti-mycobacterial drugs. Overall, drug-likeness, as well as the dual mode of action, addressing the mycolic acid cell wall assembly at two distinct steps, holds significant potential for further in vivo applications.
PXD057038	40314062	Beta-Lactam Antibiotics Promote Extracellular Vesicle Production of Staphylococcus aureus Through ROS-Mediated Lipid Metabolic Reprogramming. 	PBP inactivation and OXA treatment resulted in altered protein compositions of Staphylococcal membrane vesicles	S.aureus MVs	Bacterial extracellular vesicles (EVs) are natural reservoirs of biological active substances. They exhibit promising application in developing bioproducts such as vaccine, drug-delivery system and anticancer agent. However, the low yield of naturally secreted EVs during bacterial growth is a bottleneck factor that restricts EV applications. In this study, we showed that sub-minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of beta-lactams boosted EV production in various Staphylococcus aureus strains. The expression of penicillin-binding protein (PBP) genes increased after beta-lactam treatment, and the inactivation of alternative PBPs promoted EV secretion of S. aureus. We also demonstrated that sub-MIC beta-lactams promoted EV production via a reactive oxygen species (ROS)-dependent pathway. Deletion of redundant pbp genes enhanced oxacillin (OXA)-stimulated ROS levels. Transcriptomic and lipidomic analyses revealed that OXA-induced ROS triggered lipid metabolic reprogramming in S. aureus. Particularly, ROS promoted lipid peroxidation (LPO) and increased the biosynthesis of phosphatidic acid (PA) and lipoteichoic acid (LTA) that contributed to EV generation. Furthermore, OXA treatment altered the diversity of EV-loaded proteins. OXA-treated (increment) (agr) (/OXA)EVs induced stronger Dengue EDIII-specific antibodies in BALB/c mice than did (increment) (agr)EVs. Overall, this study provided mechanic insights into beta-lactam-promoted EV production in S. aureus, and highlighted the potential strategies to prepare EVs for various applications.
PXD053951	40314078	IFITM1 as a modulator of surfaceome dynamics and aggressive phenotype in cervical cancer cells. 	IFITM1 as a modulator of surfaceome dynamics and aggressive phenotype in cervical cancer cells	ALCAM, Interferon inducible transmembrane protein, SILAC, cervicospheres, invasion, migration	Interferon-induced transmembrane proteins (IFITMs) are frequently overexpressed in cancer cells, including cervical carcinoma cells, and play a role in the progression of various cancer types. However, their mechanisms of action remain incompletely understood. In the present study, by employing a combination of surface membrane protein isolation and quantitative mass spectrometry, it was comprehensively described how the IFITM1 protein influences the composition of the cervical cancer cell surfaceome. Additionally, the effects of interferon-gamma on protein expression and cell surface exposure were evaluated in the presence and absence of IFITM1. The IFITM1-regulated membrane and membrane-associated proteins identified are involved mainly in processes such as endocytosis and lysosomal transport, cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix adhesion, antigen presentation and the immune response. To complement the proteomic data, gene expression was analyzed using reverse transcription-quantitative PCR to distinguish whether the observed changes in protein levels were attributable to transcriptional regulation or differential protein dynamics. Furthermore, the proteomic and gene expression data are supported by functional studies demonstrating the impact of the IFITM1 and IFITM3 proteins on the adhesive, migratory and invasive capabilities of cervical cancer cells, as well as their interactions with immune cells.
PXD062087	40314345	Role of Maternal Obesity in Offspring Cardiovascular Development and Congenital Heart Defects. 	The Role of Maternal Obesity in Offspring Cardiovascular Development and Congenital Heart Defects	Congenital heart disease, cardiac development, gene-environment interaction, maternal obesity	BACKGROUND: Congenital heart disease is a leading cause of death in newborns, yet many of its molecular mechanisms remain unknown. Both maternal obesity and diabetes increase the risk of congenital heart disease in offspring, with recent studies suggesting these conditions may have distinct teratogenic mechanisms. The global prevalence of obesity is rising, and while maternal obesity is a known risk factor for fetal congenital heart disease, the specific mechanisms are largely unexplored. METHODS AND RESULTS: We used a murine model of diet-induced maternal obesity, without diabetes, to produce dams that were overweight but had normal blood glucose levels. Embryos were generated and their developing hearts analyzed. Transcriptome analysis was performed using single-nucleus and bulk RNA sequencing. Global and phospho-enriched proteome analysis was performed using tandem mass tag-mass spectroscopy. Immunobloting and histologic evaluation were also performed. Analysis revealed disrupted oxidative phosphorylation and reactive oxygen species formation, with reduced antioxidant capacity, evidenced by downregulation of genes Sod1 and Gp4x, and disrupted Hif1a signaling. Evidence of oxidative stress, cell death signaling, and alteration in Rho GTPase and actin cytoskeleton signaling was also observed. Genes involved in cardiac morphogenesis, including Hand2, were downregulated, and fewer mature cardiomyocytes were present. Histologic analysis confirmed increased cardiac defects in embryos exposed to maternal obesity. CONCLUSIONS: These findings demonstrate that maternal obesity alone can result in cardiac defects through mechanisms similar to those associated with maternal hyperglycemia. This study provides valuable insight into the role of maternal obesity, a growing and modifiable risk factor, in the development of the most common birth defect, congenital heart disease.
PXD058883	40316563	The salivary gland mRNA and protein datasets after diapause of the soybean hawkmoth, Clanis bilineata tsingtauica. 	Proteome of the salivary gland mRNA bettween 5 instar larva and diapause larva of CBT	Clanis bilineata, diapause, salivary gland	The soybean hawkmoth, Clanis bilineata tsingtauica (CBT), is a major agricultural pest affecting soybean and other leguminous crops, but also has been explored as an edible insect resource in China and economically important for artificial rearing industry. Diapause, a stage-specific developmental arrest, is widely employed by insects to survive hostile seasonal conditions. Although significant progress has been made in understanding "diapause" in the context of insect physiology and evolutionary ecology, many questions remain unclear. Here, we analyzed salivary gland mRNA and protein profiles of fifth instar larvae during feeding (gluttonous) and diapause stages. Transcriptomics revealed 2,194 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), while proteomics identified 1,746 proteins in diapause larvae. By integrating transcriptomic and proteomic data, 172 genes or proteins were with significant changes in expression, including 61 genes or proteins up-regulated and 111 down-regulated during diapause. These findings provide a multi-omics resource for identifying key regulators of diapause and elucidating its molecular basis in CBT. This study advances understanding of insect developmental arrest mechanisms and supports future research on diapause adaptation.
PXD062842	40316684	PDGF-BB promotes oral submucosal fibrosis by driving phenotypic transformation and autophagy in oral mucosal fibroblasts through downregulation of circHIPK3. 	LC-MS by circHIPK3 probe method in human oral submucosal fibroblasts	Human oral submucosal fibroblasts, LC-MS, circHIPK3	Circular RNA HIPK3 (circHIPK3), known to regulate cell proliferation, migration, transformation, and autophagy in various fibrotic conditions. However, its role has not been studied in oral submucous fibrosis (OSF). Therefore, we conducted this study to explore whether platelet-derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB) induces human oral submucous fibroblasts (hOMF) proliferation, migration, transformation, and autophagy through circHIPK3 regulation. Treatment of hOMFs with PDGF-BB significantly increased circHIPK3 expression, promoting proliferation, migration, and autophagy. While inhibiting circHIPK3 mitigated these effects, confirming its role in PDGF-BB-mediated pathways. These findings reveal that PDGF-BB regulates hOMFs via circHIPK3, contributing to OSF pathogenesis and offering potential therapeutic targets. The molecular characteristics of circHIPK3 in fibroblasts (FBs) were identified by Agarose Gel Electrophoresis, Sanger Sequencing and Actinomycin D assay. Quantitative real-time PCR(RT-qPCR) and Western Blot were used to detect the expression of target molecules. The proliferation and migration capacity of FBs in oral mucosa were detected by the CCK8 and Cell Scratch Assay. Protein molecules interacting with circHIPK3 and downstream signaling pathways were screened by RNA pull down and mass spectrometry. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD062842. Firstly, the ring structure of circHIPK3 is verified. The expression level of circHIPK3 in OSF tissues and hOMFs was significantly decreased, while the expression level of circHIPK3 was significantly increased after inhibition of platelet-derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFR-beta) by Imatinib (IMA). Subsequently, it was confirmed that the overexpression of circHIPK3 could effectively inhibit the proliferation, migration, transformation and autophagy of PDGF-BB-induced hOMFs. Finally, the mechanism study showed that circHIPK3 could inhibit the proliferation, migration, transformation and autophagy of hOMFs by regulating Y-box binding protein 1 (YBX1) protein and extracellular regulated protein kinases (ERK), phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38 MAPK) signaling pathways. PDGF-BB downregulates circHIPK3 expression and induces proliferation, migration, transformation, and autophagy of oral mucosal FBs via the circHIPK3/YBX1 axis and the circHIPK3/ERK, PI3K, p38 MAPK axis.
PXD057755	40317322	The interactome of tau phosphorylated at T217 in Alzheimer's disease human brain tissue. 	The interactome of tau phosphorylated at T217 in Alzheimers disease human brain tissue	ALzheimers Disease brain, DatasetType:Proteomics, pT217, phospho Tau	Hyperphosphorylated tau (pTau) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain tissue is a complex mix of multiple tau species that are variably phosphorylated. The emerging studies suggest that phosphorylation of specific residues may alter the role of tau. The role of specific pTau species can be explored through protein interactome studies. The aim of this study was to analyse the interactome of tau phosphorylated at T217 (pT217), which biomarker studies suggest is one of the earliest accumulating tau species in AD. pT217 interactors were identified in fresh-frozen human brain tissue from 10 cases of advanced AD using affinity purification-mass spectrometry. The cases included a balanced cohort of APOE epsilon3/epsilon3 and epsilon4/epsilon4 genotypes (n = 5 each) to explore how apolipoprotein E altered phosphorylated tau interactions. The results were compared to our previous interactome dataset that profiled the interactors of PHF1-enriched tau to determine if individual pTau species have different interactomes. 23 proteins were identified as bona fide pT217 interactors, including known pTau interactor SQSTM1. pT217 enriched tau was phosphorylated at fewer residues compared to PHF1-enriched tau, suggesting an earlier stage of pathology development. Notable pT217 interactors included five subunits of the CTLH E3 ubiquitin ligase (WDR26, ARMC8, GID8, RANBP9, MAEA), which has not previously been linked to AD. In APOE epsilon3/epsilon3 cases pT217 significantly interacted with 46 proteins compared to 28 in APOE epsilon4/epsilon4 cases, but these proteins were significantly overlapped. CTLH E3 ubiquitin ligase subunits significantly interacted with phosphorylated tau in both APOE genotypes. pT217 interactions with SQSTM1, WDR26 and RANBP9 were validated using co-immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescent microscopy of post-mortem human brain tissue, which showed colocalisation of both protein interactors with tau pathology. Our results report the interactome of pT217 in human Alzheimer's disease brain tissue for the first time and highlight the CTLH E3 ubiquitin ligase complex as a significant novel interactor of pT217 tau.
PXD062726	40318116	Conserved function of a RasGEF-mediated pathway in the metabolic compensation of the circadian clock. 	Conserved function of a RasGEF-mediated pathway in the metabolic compensation of the circadian clock	BMAL1, ERK, Neurospora crassa, RAS pathway, RasGEF, SOS1, cAMP, circadian rhythm, metabolic compensation	Metabolic compensation of the circadian clock ensures endogenous timing across a broad range of nutrient conditions, enabling organisms to adapt efficiently to recurrent environmental changes, even during nutrient scarcity. In this study, we have identified a novel clock-controlled gene, rasgef (Rat Sarcoma Guanine Nucleotide Exchange Factor), that plays a crucial role in modulating the circadian clock under starvation conditions in the circadian model organism Neurospora crassa. The gene product, RasGEF-a nucleotide exchange factor for the small G protein RAS2P (Rat Sarcoma 2 Protein)-displays glucose-dependent phosphorylation and localization. We show that deletion of rasgef hinders metabolic compensation of the circadian clock to glucose-depleted conditions and disrupts the rhythmic expression of the output gene ccg2. Furthermore, we demonstrate in osteosarcoma cells that the period of the mammalian clock is also compensated across a wide range of extracellular glucose levels and adaptation of the clock to glucose-starved conditions depends on the RasGEF homolog SOS1 (Son of Sevenless 1) and its downstream signaling component ERK (Extracellular Signal-Regulated Kinase). Our results suggest a conserved role of RasGEF-mediated signaling in the maintenance of circadian rhythm under glucose-limited conditions.
PXD060526	40320521	The anti-diabetic PPARgamma agonist Pioglitazone inhibits cell proliferation and induces metabolic reprogramming in prostate cancer. 	Antidiabetic PPARgamma Antidiabetic PPARgamma agonist Pioglitazone inhibits cell proliferation and induces metabolic reprogramming in prostate cancer cellsonist Pioglitazone inhibits cell proliferation and induces metabolic reprogramming in prostate cancer cell	PPAR agonists, Prostate cancer cells, proteome and metabolic reprogramming	Prostate cancer (PCa) and Type 2 diabetes (T2D) often co-occur, yet their relationship remains elusive. While some studies suggest that T2D lowers PCa risk, others report conflicting data. This study investigates the effects of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) agonists Bezafibrate, Tesaglitazar, and Pioglitazone on PCa tumorigenesis. Analysis of patient datasets revealed that high PPARG expression correlates with advanced PCa and poor survival. The PPARgamma agonists Pioglitazone and Tesaglitazar notably reduced cell proliferation and PPARgamma protein levels in primary and metastatic PCa-derived cells. Proteomic analysis identified intrinsic differences in mTORC1 and mitochondrial fatty acid oxidation (FAO) pathways between primary and metastatic PCa cells, which were further disrupted by Tesaglitazar and Pioglitazone. Moreover, metabolomics, Seahorse Assay-based metabolic profiling, and radiotracer uptake assays revealed that Pioglitazone shifted primary PCa cells' metabolism towards glycolysis and increased FAO in metastatic cells, reducing mitochondrial ATP production. Furthermore, Pioglitazone suppressed cell migration in primary and metastatic PCa cells and induced the epithelial marker E-Cadherin in primary PCa cells. In vivo, Pioglitazone reduced tumor growth in a metastatic PC3 xenograft model, increased phosho AMPKalpha and decreased phospho mTOR levels. In addition, diabetic PCa patients treated with PPAR agonists post-radical prostatectomy implied no biochemical recurrence over five to ten years compared to non-diabetic PCa patients. Our findings suggest that Pioglitazone reduces PCa cell proliferation and induces metabolic and epithelial changes, highlighting the potential of repurposing metabolic drugs for PCa therapy.
PXD061287	40320980	Integrated single-cell functional-proteomic profiling reveals a shift in myofibre specificity in human nemaline myopathy: A proof-of-principle study. 	Integrated single cell functional-proteomic profiling of human skeletal muscle reveals a shift in cellular specificity in nemaline myopathy	nemaline myopathy, protein function-omics, single muscle fiber	Skeletal muscle is a complex syncytial arrangement of an array of cell types and, in the case of muscle-specific cells (myofibres), subtypes. There exists extensive heterogeneity in skeletal muscle functional behaviour and molecular landscape at the cell composition, myofibre subtype and intra-myofibre subtype level. This heterogeneity highlights limitations in currently applied methodological approaches, which has stagnated our understanding of fundamental skeletal muscle biology in both healthy and myopathic contexts. Here we developed a novel approach that combines a fluorescence-based assay for the biophysical examination of the sarcomeric protein, myosin, coupled with same-myofibre high-sensitivity proteome profiling, termed single myofibre protein function-omics (SMPFO). Applying this approach as proof-of-principle we identify the integrated relationship between myofibre functionality and the underlying proteomic landscape that guides divergent, but physiologically important, behaviour in myofibre subtypes in healthy human skeletal muscle. By applying SMPFO to two forms of human nemaline myopathy (ACTA1 and TNNT1 mutations), we reveal significant reduction in the divergence of myofibre subtypes across both biophysical and proteomic behaviour. Collectively we demonstrate preliminary findings of SMPFO to support its use to study skeletal muscle with greater specificity, accuracy and resolution than currently applied methods, facilitating that advancement in understanding of skeletal muscle tissue in both healthy and diseased states. KEY POINTS: Skeletal muscle is a complex tissue made up of an array of cell and sub-cell types, with the resident muscle cell - myofibre - critical for contractile function. Although single myofibre studies have advanced, existing methods lack the precision for simultaneous multidata analysis, hindering developments in our understanding of skeletal muscle. We introduce single myofibre protein function-omics (SMPFO), a method enabling functional analysis of sarcomeric myosin alongside global protein abundance within the same myofibre. In healthy myofibres SMyoMFO reveals extensive biochemical diversity in myosin heads, correlating with the abundance of metabolic and sarcomeric proteins, including subtype-specific patterns in sarcoglycan delta (SGCD). In contrast SMyoMFO uniquely reveals a reduction in diversity of myosin function and the myofibre proteome in two forms of nemaline myopathy, highlighting disease-associated alterations. This innovative approach provides a robust framework for investigating myofibre regulation and dysfunction in skeletal muscle biology.
PXD058546	40322912	Melanoma Proteomics Unveiled: Harmonizing Diverse Data Sets for Biomarker Discovery and Clinical Insights via MEL-PLOT. 	Proteogenomic of postmortem melanoma  metastases from preimmuno		Using several melanoma proteomics data sets we created a single analysis platform that enables the discovery, knowledge build, and validation of diagnostic, predictive, and prognostic biomarkers at the protein level. Quantitative mass-spectrometry-based proteomic data was obtained from five independent cohorts, including 489 tissue samples from 394 patients with accompanying clinical metadata. We established an interactive R-based web platform that enables the comparison of protein levels across diverse cohorts, and supports correlation analysis between proteins and clinical metadata including survival outcomes. By comparing differential protein levels between metastatic, primary tumor, and nonmalignant samples in two of the cohorts, we identified 274 proteins showing significant differences among the sample types. Further analysis of these 274 proteins in lymph node metastatic samples from a third cohort revealed that 45 proteins exhibited a significant effect on patient survival. The three most significant proteins were HP (HR = 4.67, p = 2.8e-06), LGALS7 (HR = 3.83, p = 2.9e-05), and UBQLN1 (HR = 3.2, p = 4.8e-05). The user-friendly interactive web platform, accessible at https://www.tnmplot.com/melanoma, provides an interactive interface for the analysis of proteomic and clinical data. The MEL-PLOT platform, through its interactive capabilities, streamlines the creation of a comprehensive knowledge base, empowering hypothesis formulation and diligent monitoring of the most recent advancements in the domains of biomedical research and drug development.
PXD061935	40324694	New platinum derivatives selectively cause double-strand DNA breaks and death in naive and cisplatin-resistant cholangiocarcinomas. 	Novel chemotherapy selectively induces double-strand DNA breaks and death in nave and Cisplatin-resistant cholangiocarcinoma tumours - total proteomics and phosphoproteomics	Cancer cells, Cancer-associated fibroblasts, Chemoresistance, Chromatin remodeling, DNA crosslinks, Novel therapy, label free, phosphoproteomics	BACKGROUND & AIMS: Patients with cholangiocarcinoma (CCA) have poor prognosis. Current cisplatin-based first-line chemotherapy offers limited survival benefits. Cisplatin induces single-strand DNA breaks, activating DNA repair mechanisms that diminish its effectiveness. Here, we present the design, chemical synthesis, and therapeutic evaluation of a new generation of chemotherapeutic agents (Aurkines) with unique polyelectrophilic properties. These agents cause a high frequency of double-strand DNA breaks, bypassing DNA repair, and promoting cancer cell death. METHODS: Two novel compounds, Aurkine 16 and Aurkine 18, were designed and evaluated for their antitumor effects in both naive and cisplatin-resistant CCA cells, cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs), healthy cholangiocytes, and in vivo models. RESULTS: Aurkines effectively induced double-strand DNA breaks, leading to increased DNA damage and elevated levels of reactive oxygen species, resulting in greater cytotoxicity than cisplatin in CCA cells. Phosphoproteomic and molecular analysis revealed that cisplatin activates DNA repair pathways, while Aurkines primarily induce apoptosis. Importantly, Aurkines also triggered apoptosis in cisplatin-resistant CCA cells and CAFs without harming healthy cholangiocytes. Additionally, Aurkines demonstrated cytotoxicity in other cisplatin-resistant cancers, such as breast and ovarian cancer. This tumor selectivity results from reduced uptake, increased efflux, and compact chromatin structure in normal cells, limiting Aurkine-DNA interactions. In vivo, Aurkines inhibited the growth of subcutaneous naive and cisplatin-resistant CCA tumors, as well as orthotopic tumors in immunocompetent mice promoting antitumor immune cell recruitment, without any adverse events. Transport studies revealed that Aurkines were selectively taken up by OCT1, OCT3, CTR1, and OATP1A2, whereas only CTR1 transported cisplatin. CONCLUSIONS: Aurkines represent promising therapeutic drugs for both naive and cisplatin-resistant cancers due to their unique polyelectrophilic properties and selective targeting of malignant cells. IMPACT AND IMPLICATIONS: This study introduces a novel therapeutic strategy designed to induce frequent double-strand DNA breaks selectively in both naive and cisplatin-resistant cancer cells, without evident toxic side effects at therapeutic doses. This approach may settle the basis for new strategies to overcome the critical challenge of drug resistance in cancer treatment, and has the potential to be a breakthrough not only for the treatment of biliary tumors but also for other cancers.
PXD062310	40325981	Lipid Scrambling Pathways in the Sec61 Translocon Complex. 	Lipid Scrambling Pathways in the Sec61 Translocon Complex	Sec61, Translocon Complex	Cellular homeostasis depends on the rapid, ATP-independent translocation of newly synthesized lipids across the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membrane. Lipid translocation is facilitated by membrane proteins known as scramblases, a few of which have recently been identified in the ER. Our previous structure of the translocon-associated protein (TRAP) bound to the Sec61 translocation channel revealed local membrane thinning, suggesting that the Sec61/TRAP complex might be involved in lipid scrambling. Using complementary fluorescence spectroscopy assays, we detected nonselective scrambling by reconstituted translocon complexes. This activity was unaffected by Sec61 inhibitors that block its lateral gate, suggesting a second lipid scrambling pathway within the complex. Molecular dynamics simulations indicate that the trimeric TRAP subunit forms this alternative route, facilitating lipid translocation via a "credit card" mechanism, using a crevice lined with polar residues to shield lipid head groups from the hydrophobic membrane interior. Kinetic and thermodynamic analyses confirmed that local membrane thinning enhances scrambling efficiency and that both Sec61 and TRAP scramble phosphatidylcholine faster than phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylserine, reflecting the intrinsic lipid flip-flop tendencies of these lipid species. As the Sec61 scrambling site lies in the lateral gate region, it is likely inaccessible during protein translocation, in line with our experiments on Sec61-inhibited samples. Hence, our findings suggest that the metazoan-specific trimeric TRAP bundle is a viable candidate for lipid scrambling activity that is insensitive to the functional state of the translocon.
PXD059304	40326241	Two-Step Peptide Solubilization Increases Coverage in High-Sensitivity NanoHILIC/MS/MS-Based Proteomics. 	Two-step  peptide solubilization increases coverage in high-sensitivity nanoHILIC/MS/MS-based proteomics	NanoHILIC/MS/MS	Nanoscale hydrophilic-interaction chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry (nanoHILIC/MS/MS) is a promising alternative to reversed-phase liquid chromatography for proteomics, but its application is limited by the poor solubility of peptides in organic solvent-rich sample solutions. To overcome this issue, we have developed a two-step solubilization method, in which peptides are first solubilized in a solvent with an optimal acetonitrile (ACN) concentration of 25% and then diluted into a high ACN concentration solution of 95%. This procedure increases the peptide solubility without compromising compatibility with nanoHILIC/MS/MS. Compared to direct solubilization in 95% ACN, this approach increased the intensity of 82.8% of commonly quantified peptides in nanoHILIC/MS/MS, with an average intensity gain of 20.9%. Furthermore, nanoHILIC/MS/MS with this two-step solubilization outperformed nanoRPLC/MS/MS, identifying 8.47 times more peptides and 3.54 times more protein groups from 2.5 ng of tryptic peptides extracted from HeLa cells. The high sensitivity of nanoHILIC/MS/MS can be attributed to the enhanced loading of peptides as a result of the two-step solubilization, together with superior ESI efficiency arising from the use of the ACN-rich mobile phase. This high-sensitivity proteomics system is a promising platform for clinical and single-cell applications.
PXD060865	40326341	Effect of mosquito saliva from distinct species on human dermal endothelial cell function in vitro and West Nile virus pathogenesis in vivo. 	Effect of mosquito saliva from distinct species on human dermal endothelial cell function in vitro and West Nile virus pathogenesis in vivo	Culex pipiens, West Nile virus, arbovirus, mosquito saliva, pathogenesis, transmission, vascular leakage	During probing and feeding, an infected mosquito injects both virus and saliva into the host skin. The presence of mosquito saliva in the skin increases arbovirus pathogenesis in the bitten host, however the exact mechanism behind this remains to be determined. It is hypothesized that disease enhancement is dependent on the function of the dermal endothelium, where increased permeability aids in the influx of virus-susceptible cells to the bite site and therefore more cells for the virus to replicate in. Here, we investigate the effects of saliva from Culex and Aedes species on human dermal endothelial cell function in vitro. Furthermore, we investigate the effect of Culex saliva on West Nile virus (WNV) pathogenesis in a mouse model. We found that salivary gland extract from anthropophilic mosquito species (Aedes and Cx. pipiens molestus) induce permeability of the human dermal endothelium, while an ornithophilic mosquito species (Cx. pipiens pipiens) does not. We identified that this effect is likely due to the presence of protease(s) in Cx. pipiens molestus saliva that are absent in Cx. pipiens pipiens saliva. In addition, we show that presence of Culex saliva at the WNV inoculation site in vivo leads to more consistent weight loss, increased permeability of the dermal endothelium at the inoculation site, and increased mortality compared to inoculation of WNV alone. Identification and characterization of novel salivary proteins from similar but genetically distinct mosquito species will advance the development of intervention methods to combat potential transmission risks and disease severity of emerging mosquito-borne pathogens.
PXD059611	40328514	Data Independent Acquisition to Inform the Development of Targeted Proteomics Assays Using a Triple Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer. 	DIA to inform Triple Quad Assay development	Alzheimers disease, DIA, MRM, SRM, cerebrospinal fluid, neurodegenerative disease, quantitative proteomics, targeted proteomics	Mass spectrometry based targeted proteomics methods provide a sensitive and high-throughput analysis of selected proteins. To develop a targeted bottom-up proteomics assay, peptides must be evaluated as proxies for the measurement of a protein or proteoform in a biological matrix. Candidate peptide selection typically relies on predetermined biochemical properties, data from semistochastic sampling, or empirical measurements. These strategies require extensive testing and method refinement due to the difficulties associated with prediction of the peptide response in the biological matrix of interest. Gas-phase fractionated (GPF) narrow window data-independent acquisition (DIA) aids in the development of reproducible selected reaction monitoring (SRM) assays by providing matrix-specific information on peptide detectability and quantification by mass spectrometry. To demonstrate the suitability of DIA data for selecting peptide targets, we reimplement a portion of an existing assay to measure 98 Alzheimer's disease proteins in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Peptides were selected from GPF-DIA based on signal intensity and reproducibility. The resulting SRM assay exhibits a quantitative precision similar to that of published data, despite the inclusion of different peptides between the assays. This workflow enables development of new assays without additional upfront data acquisition, demonstrated here through generation of a separate assay for an unrelated set of proteins in CSF from the same data set.
PXD062585	40329321	Cerebrospinal fluid proteome profiling across the Alzheimer's disease continuum: a step towards solving the equation for 'X'. 	Proteomic analysis of CSF samples from patients across the Alsheimer's disease continuum	Alzheimers disease CSF TMT	BACKGROUND: While the temporal profile of amyloid (Abeta) and tau cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers along the Alzheimer's disease (AD) continuum is well-studied, chronological changes of CSF proteins reflecting other disease-relevant processes, denoted 'X' in the ATX(N) framework, remain poorly understood. METHODS: Using an untargeted mass spectrometric approach termed tandem mass tag (TMT), we quantified over 1500 CSF proteins across the AD continuum in three independent cohorts, finely staged by Abeta/tau positron emission tomography (PET), fluid biomarkers, or brain biopsy. Weighted protein co-expression network analysis identified clusters of proteins robustly correlating in all three cohorts which sequentially changed with AD progression. Obtained protein clusters were correlated with fluid biomarker measurements (phosphorylated tau (p-tau) species including p-tau181, p-tau217, and p-tau205, as well as Abeta), Abeta/tau PET imaging, and clinical parameters to discern disease-relevant clusters which were modelled across the AD continuum. RESULTS: Neurodegeneration-related proteins (e.g., 14-3-3 proteins, PPIA), derived from different brain cell types, strongly correlated with fluid as well as imaging biomarkers and increased early in the AD continuum. Among them, the proteins SMOC1 and CNN3 were highly associated with Abeta pathology, while the 14-3-3 proteins YWHAZ and YWHAE as well as PPIA demonstrated a strong association with both Abeta and tau pathology as indexed by PET. Endo-lysosomal proteins (e.g., HEXB, TPP1, SIAE) increased early in abundance alongside neurodegeneration-related proteins, and were followed by increases in metabolic proteins such as ALDOA, MDH1, and GOT1 at the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) stage. Finally, later AD stages were characterized by decreases in synaptic/membrane proteins (e.g., NPTX2). CONCLUSIONS: Our study identified proxies of Abeta and tau pathology, indexed by PET, (SMOC1, YWHAE, CNN3) and highlighted the dynamic fluctuations of the CSF proteome over the disease course, identifying candidate biomarkers for disease staging beyond Abeta and tau.
PXD045853	40330703	RNA-Binding Proteome-Wide Analysis Reveals Rice RNA-Binding Proteins Enriched After Sobemovirus Rice Yellow Mottle Virus Infection. 	Identification of RNA-binding proteins involved in Rice yellow mottle virus infection	RBPS, RBPome, RYMV, SAPS, Viruses	RNA-binding protein interactions with viral RNA are crucial in the context of viral infections, as viral RNAs can recruit and reprogram host RNA-binding proteins (RBPs) during disease progression. Despite their significance, the repertoire of RBPs involved in most viral infections remains inadequately characterized. In Africa, Sobemovirus Rice yellow mottle virus (Sobemovirus RYMV) is the most prevalent virus infecting rice, and its devastating impact has led to extensive research efforts worldwide. Comprehensive identification of host RBPs that are enriched under Sobemovirus RYMV-infected conditions through RNA-bound proteome (RBPome)-wide studies could provide novel strategies for developing Sobemovirus RYMV resistance. In this study, a silica-based acidic phase separation approach was employed to elucidate changes in the RBPome following Sobemovirus RYMV infection. The analysis demonstrated that Sobemovirus RYMV infection remodels the RBPome, with 11 non-viral RBPs identified as significantly enriched and two non-viral RBPs that were significantly less abundant following infection. This study provides a snapshot of the landscape of RBPome changes in response to Sobemovirus RYMV. Validating these RBPs to understand their biological involvement in Sobemovirus RYMV infection is crucial to developing Sobemovirus RYMV-resistant rice varieties.
PXD055585	40332024	The Yeast Gsk-3 Kinase Mck1 Is Necessary for Cell Wall Remodeling in Glucose-Starved and Cell Wall-Stressed Cells. 	Identifying the proteome and phosphoproteome regulated by the Mck1 kinase in response to glucose starvation	Mck1, post-diauxic shift phase	The cell wall integrity (CWI) pathway is responsible for transcriptional regulation of cell wall remodeling in response to cell wall stress. How cell wall remodeling mediated by the CWI pathway is effected by inputs from other signaling pathways is not well understood. Here, we demonstrate that the Mck1 kinase cooperates with Slt2, the MAP kinase of the CWI pathway, to promote cell wall thickening in glucose-starved cells. Integrative analyses of the transcriptome, proteome and metabolic profiling indicate that Mck1 is required for the accumulation of UDP-glucose (UDPG), the substrate for beta-glucan synthesis, through the activation of two regulons: the Msn2/4-dependent stress response and the Cat8-/Adr1-mediated metabolic reprogram dependent on the SNF1 complex. Analysis of the phosphoproteome suggests that similar to mammalian Gsk-3 kinases, Mck1 is involved in the regulation of cytoskeleton-dependent cellular processes, metabolism, signaling and transcription. Specifically, Mck1 may be implicated in the Snf1-dependent metabolic reprogram through PKA inhibition and SAGA (Spt-Ada-Gcn5 acetyltransferase)-mediated transcription activation, a hypothesis further underscored by the significant overlap between the Mck1- and Gcn5-activated transcriptomes. Phenotypic analysis also supports the roles of Mck1 in actin cytoskeleton-mediated exocytosis to ensure plasma membrane homeostasis and cell wall remodeling in cell wall-stressed cells. Together, these findings not only reveal the novel functions of Mck1 in metabolic reprogramming and polarized growth but also provide valuable omics resources for future studies to uncover the underlying mechanisms of Mck1 and other Gsk-3 kinases in cell growth and stress response.
PXD063093	40332653	Exploring the role of CD13 and inflammatory factors in radiation enteritis: insights from high-throughput proteomics and Mendelian randomization analysis. 	Exploring the Role of CD13 and Inflammatory Factors in Radiation Enteritis: Insights from High-Throughput Proteomics and Mendelian Randomization Analysis	CD13, Inflammatory factors, Radiation enteritis	BACKGROUND: Radiation enteritis (RE) is an unavoidable complication during radiotherapy for pelvic malignancies, characterized by chronic inflammation, fibrosis, and vascular injury in the intestinal tissue. Currently, there is a lack of research that delves into the relationship between inflammatory factors and key proteins in RE. METHODS: This study employed high-throughput proteomics to analyze intestinal tissues from RE rats and healthy controls, identifying differentially expressed key proteins. The degree of intestinal damage was validated through HE staining. Furthermore, five Mendelian randomization methods were used to analyze the causal relationship between 70 serum circulating inflammatory factors and CD13 levels. Sensitivity analyses, including heterogeneity tests, leave-one-out tests, and horizontal pleiotropy tests, were performed to ensure the robustness and reliability of the results. RESULTS: CD13 was identified as a key differentially expressed protein, with its expression significantly upregulated in RE rats and positively correlated with disease severity. Bidirectional Mendelian randomization analysis revealed causal relationships between CD13 and four inflammatory factors: increased levels of CCL28 and EN-RAGE may promote the rise in CD13, while increased levels of TAM-binding protein may be associated with decreased CD13 levels. Additionally, higher CD13 levels were found to be associated with increased levels of interleukin-12. Sensitivity analyses indicated good consistency and reliability in terms of heterogeneity and pleiotropy for these exposure variables. CONCLUSION: This study reveals the potential mechanistic role of CD13 in RE. Moreover, the identified CD13-associated inflammatory factors offer potential targets for the development of new prevention and treatment strategies, with significant clinical implications.
PXD058874	40333200	Identification of Potential Amblyomma americanum Antigens After Vaccination with Tick Extracellular Vesicles in White-Tailed Deer. 	Identification of Amblyomma americanum antigens after vaccination with tick extracellular vesicles in white-tailed deer	antigens, tick, vaccination	BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: Anti-tick vaccines represent a promising alternative to chemical acaricides for the management of ticks on wildlife; however, little progress has been made to produce a vaccine effective in wild hosts that are critical for tick reproduction, such as the white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus). We recently tested Amblyomma americanum salivary and midgut extracellular vesicles as vaccine candidates in white-tailed deer, which resulted in on-host female tick mortality. The objective of this study was to identify the proteins recognized by the antibodies regenerated during these vaccinations to determine potential antigens for vaccine development for white-tailed deer. METHODS: Using a proteomic approach, we characterized the cargo within salivary and midgut vesicles. Label-free quantitative proteomics were used to investigate significant changes in protein loading within extracellular vesicles in these two organs. The pre-vaccination and post-vaccination serum from three animals vaccinated with salivary and midgut vesicles and one control animal were used to identify proteins recognized by circulating antibodies. RESULTS: We show that these salivary and midgut vesicles contain a "core-cargo" enriched in chaperones, small GTPases, and other proteins previously reported in small EVs. Label-free quantitative proteomics show significant differences in protein cargo between salivary and midgut vesicles (333 proteins out of 516). Proteomic analysis of immunoprecipitated proteins identified thirty antigens with potential for use in anti-tick vaccines, seven of which we have categorized as high priority. CONCLUSIONS: Proteins within tick salivary and midgut vesicles are recognized by antibodies from vaccinated white-tailed deer. These proteins can be further evaluated for their function and potential as vaccine candidates against ticks.
PXD059200	40334428	Camellia Japonica Radix modulates gut microbiota and 9(S)-HpODE-mediated ferroptosis to alleviate oxidative stress against MASLD. 	Camellia Japonica Radix alleviates MASLD	Camellia Japonica Radix, MASLD	BACKGROUND: Camellia japonica radix (CJR), derived from the root of Camellia japonica L., has the potential to function as an herbal tea substitute for the prevention and intervention of metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD). It can provide systemic therapeutic benefits, boast a favorable safety profile, facilitate convenient consumption, and support long-term applicability. Despite its potential, research on CJR remains limited. PURPOSE: The aim of this study aims is to elucidate the therapeutic mechanisms of CJR in MASLD, thereby providing evidence to support its clinical application. METHODS: The therapeutic effects of CJR were evaluated using a water-supplementation model in MASLD mice. Integrated microbiome, transcriptome, proteome, and metabolome analyses were employed to comprehensively explore the mechanisms involved. A drug-target pull-down assay was performed to identify specific protein targets of small molecule metabolites in vitro. Fecal microbiota transplantation in antibiotic-treated ABX mice was conducted to confirm the critical role of gut microbiota and its metabolites. Furthermore, customized medicated feed supplemented with linoleic acid was used to explore the intervention effect of its metabolite, 9(S)-HpODE, as well as to evaluate its dietary intervention potential. RESULTS: This present study explicitly elucidates the efficacy of CJR extract in alleviating hepatic inflammation and steatosis in a MASLD model mice, with its pharmacological mechanism associated with gut microbiota, linoleic acid metabolism, and GPX4-mediated ferroptosis. Notably, 9(S)-HpODE was discovered to be a key metabolite of linoleic acid, which could target both KEAP1 and SLC7A11, bidirectionally regulating GPX4-mediated ferroptosis, while acting as a signaling molecule at low doses to induce redox adaptation via oxidative preconditioning, thus ameliorating oxidative stress in MASLD. CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that both CJR and linoleic acid exhibit significant potential as dietary interventions for the management of MASLD, offering promising avenues for future research and clinical application.
PXD052917	40334745	Proximity labeling and SILAC based proteomic approach identifies proteins at the interface of homotypic and heterotypic cancer cell interactions. 	Proximity labelling and SILAC based proteomic approach identifies proteins at the interface of homotypic and heterotypic cancer cell interactions.	SILAC based, cell-cell interactions, nano Lc-MS/MS orbitap	Cell-cell interactions are critical for the growth of organisms and maintaining homeostasis. In the tumor microenvironment, these interactions promote cancer progression. Given their importance in healthy and diseased conditions, we have developed a method to analyze the cell-to-cell interactome. Our approach uses enzyme-catalyzed proximity labeling and SILAC-based proteomics to identify the proteins involved in cancer cell interactions. By targeting HRP to the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane in bait cells, we were able to label the neighboring prey cells and distinguish between the proteomes of bait and prey cells using SILAC labeling in a co-culture system. We mapped both the homotypic and heterotypic interactomes of epithelial and mesenchymal breast cancer cells. The enrichment of cell surface and extracellular proteins confirms the specificity of our methodology. We further verified selected hits from different cell-cell interactomes in co-cultures using microscopy. This method revealed prominent signaling pathways orchestrating homotypic and heterotypic interactions of epithelial and mesenchymal cells. It also highlights the importance of exosomes in these interactions. Our methodology can be applied to any type of cell-cell interaction in 2D co-culture or 3D tumor models.
PXD054852	40335468	MS CETSA deep functional proteomics uncovers DNA repair programs leading to gemcitabine resistance. 	Dataset01_HT 1h 8h Gemcitabine IMPRINTS	Gemcitabine, IMPRINTS, MS-CETSA, TMT10	Mechanisms for resistance to cytotoxic cancer drugs are dependent on dynamic changes in the biochemistry of cellular pathways, information which is hard to obtain at the systems level. Here we use a deep functional proteomics implementation of the Cellular Thermal Shift Assay to reveal a range of induced biochemical responses to gemcitabine in resistant and sensitive diffuse large B cell lymphoma cell lines. Initial responses in both, gemcitabine resistant and sensitive cells, reflect known targeted effects by gemcitabine on ribonucleotide reductase and DNA damage responses. However, later responses diverge dramatically where sensitive cells show induction of characteristic CETSA signals for early apoptosis, while resistant cells reveal biochemical modulations reflecting transition through a distinct DNA-damage signaling state, including opening of cell cycle checkpoints and induction of translesion DNA synthesis programs, allowing bypass of damaged DNA-adducts. The results also show the induction of a protein ensemble, labeled the Auxiliary DNA Damage Repair, likely supporting DNA replication at damaged sites that can be attenuated in resistant cells by an ATR inhibitor, thus re-establishing gemcitabine sensitivity and demonstrating ATR as a key signaling node of this response.
PXD053581	40335532	p97/VCP is required for piecemeal autophagy of aggresomes. 	p97/VCP is required for piecemeal autophagy of aggresomes	TAX1BP1, TurboID, aggrephagy, p97/VCP, piecemeal autophagy, protein quality control, proximity proteomics	Metazoan cells adapt to the exhaustion of protein quality control (PQC) systems by sequestering aggregation-prone proteins in large, pericentriolar structures termed aggresomes. Defects in both aggresome formation and clearance affect proteostasis and have been linked to neurodegenerative diseases, but aggresome clearance pathways are still underexplored. Here we show that aggresomes comprising endogenous proteins are cleared via selective autophagy requiring the cargo receptor TAX1BP1. TAX1BP1 proximitomes reveal the presence of various PQC systems at aggresomes, including Hsp70 chaperones, the 26S proteasome, and the ubiquitin-selective unfoldase p97/VCP. While Hsp70 and p97/VCP with its cofactors UFD1-NPL4 and FAF1 play key roles in aggresome disassembly, the 26S proteasome is dispensable. We identify aggresomal client proteins that are degraded via different routes, in part in a p97/VCP-dependent manner via aggrephagy. Upon acute inhibition of p97/VCP, aggresomes fail to disintegrate and cannot be incorporated into autophagosomes despite the presence of factors critical for aggrephagosome formation, including p62/SQSTM1, TAX1BP1, and WIPI2. We conclude that the p97/VCP-mediated removal of ubiquitylated aggresomal clients is essential for the disintegration and subsequent piecemeal autophagy of aggresomes.
PXD039258	40335662	A prognostic microRNA-based signature for localized clear cell renal cell carcinoma: the Bio-miR study. 	Proteomics characterization of clear cell renal cell carcinoma	DIA, FFPE, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, ccRCC, localized clear cell renal cancer, molecular subtypes, probabilistic graphical models	BACKGROUND: Two thirds of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) patients have localized disease at diagnosis. A significant proportion of these patients will relapse. There is a need for prognostic biomarkers to improve risk-stratification and specific treatments for patients that relapse. The objective of this study is to determine the clinical utility of microRNA signatures as prognostic biomarkers in localized clear cell RCC (ccRCC) and propose new therapeutic targets in patients with a high-risk of relapse. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The microRNA profiles from a discovery cohort of 71 T1-T2 ccRCC patients (n = 88) were analyzed using microarrays. MicroRNAs prognostic value was established, and a microRNAs signature predicting relapse for T1b-T3 disease was defined. Independent validation was carried out by qPCR in cohorts from UK (n = 75) and Spain (n = 180), and the TCGA cohort (n = 175). In the Spanish validation cohort, proteomics experiments were done. Proteins were extracted from FFPE tissue and analyzed using by data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry. Additionally, ccRCC TCGA RNA-seq data was also analyzed. Both protein and RNA-seq data was analyzed using Significance Analysis of Micorarrays (SAM) and probabilistic graphical models, which allow the identification of relevant biological processes between low and high-risk tumors. RESULTS: A 9-microRNAs signature, Bio-miR, classified patients into low- and high-risk with disease-free survival (DFS) at 5 years of 87.12 vs. 54.17% respectively (p = 0.0086, HR = 3.58, 95%CI: 1.37-8.3). Results were confirmed in the validation cohorts with 5-year DFS rates of 94% vs. 62% in the UK cohort (HR = 7.14, p = 0.001), 82.9% vs. 58.7% in the Spanish cohort (HR = 2.46, p = 0.0013), and 5-year overall survival rates of 72.7% vs. 44.5% in the TCGA cohort (HR = 2.43, p = 0.0012). Among low-risk patients according to adjuvant immunotherapy clinical trial criteria, Bio-miR identified a high-risk group. Maybe those patients ought to be considered to receive adjuvant therapy. Proteins overexpressed in the high-risk group were mainly related to focal adhesion, serine and inositol metabolism, and angiogenesis. Probabilistic graphical models defined eight functional nodes related to specific biological processes. Differences between low- and high-risk tumors were detected in complement activation and translation functional nodes. In ccRCC TCGA cohort, 676 genes were differentially expressed between low and high-risk patients, mainly related to complement activation, adhesion, and chemokine and cytokine cascades. In this case, probabilistic graphical models defined ten functional nodes. Calcium binding, membrane, adhesion, extracellular matrix, blood microparticle, inflammatory response and immune response had higher functional node activity, and metabolism node, containing genes related to retinol and xenobiotic and CYP450 metabolism, had lower activity in the high-risk group. CONCLUSIONS: Bio-miR dichotomizes ccRCC patients with non-metastatic disease into those with low- and high-risk of relapse. This has implications for treatment and follow-up, identifying patients most likely to benefit from adjuvant treatment in clinical trials, preventing unnecessary exposure to side-effects, and providing health economics benefits. Additionally, promising therapeutic targets, as angiogenesis, immune response, metabolism, or complement activation, were found deregulated in high-risk ccRCC patients defined by Bio-miR. These findings may be useful to select patients for tailored, molecularly-driven clinical trials. Identifying which patients with kidney cancer are most at risk of their cancer coming back after surgery is critical, so that they can be prioritized for early treatment. We have identified a combination of biomarkers present in the cancer tissue (called BiomiR) which can help to do this.
PXD050748	40336300	Functional Analysis of HSD17B3-Deficient Male Mice Reveals Roles for HSD17B7 and HSD17B12 in Testosterone Biosynthesis. 	Identifying a novel hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzyme that is capable of testosterone biosynthesis in the mouse	Alternate Pathway, Androgens, Canonical Pathway, HSD17B3, HSD17B7, SRD5A1, Testosterone Biosynthesis, testosterone	Historically, 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 3 (HSD17B3) was thought to be the key enzyme responsible for testicular testosterone production. In humans, loss-of-function mutations in HSD17B3 impair testosterone production during prenatal life leading to impaired development of androgen-dependent tissues in 46,XY individuals. However, male mice with HSD17B3 deficiency exhibit normal testicular testosterone concentrations, normal development of reproductive organs and are fertile, suggesting that mice express other hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzymes capable of testicular testosterone synthesis. This study aimed to investigate whether 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 12 (HSD17B12), which can convert androstenedione to testosterone in mice but not in humans, compensates for the lack of HSD17B3 in Hsd17b3 knockout (KO) mice. We used CRISPR/Cas9 to substitute the amino acid in mouse HSD17B12 that is responsible for its ability to convert androstenedione to testosterone with the amino acid of the human enzyme that prevents androstenedione being used as a substrate. When this Hsd17b12 mutation was introduced into Hsd17b3 KO mice, males exhibited normal reproductive tracts but reduced testicular testosterone production with a consequential reduction in seminal vesicle weight. This suggests HSD17B12 contributes toward testosterone production in the absence of HSD17B3, but other enzymes must also contribute. We therefore quantified other testicular hydroxysteroid dehydrogenases, finding that HSD17B7 mRNA and protein was markedly upregulated in Hsd17b3 KO testes. We confirmed that mouse, but not human, HSD17B7 can produce testosterone in vitro. We conclude that compared to humans, mice exhibit increased plasticity in testosterone production via hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase enzymes to support androgen action and male fertility.
PXD046096	40338665	Multiomics analysis unveils an inosine-sensitive DNA damage response in neurogenic bladder after spinal cord injury. 	Multi-omics analysis of the bladder and its sensitivity to inosine in a rat model of spinal cord injury	Bladder, Inosine, Multi-Omics, Rat, Spinal Cord Injury	Spinal cord injury (SCI) evokes profound dysfunction in hollow organs such as the urinary bladder and gut. Current treatments are limited by a lack of molecular data to inform novel therapeutic avenues. Previously, we showed systemic treatment with the neuroprotective agent inosine improved bladder function following SCI in rats. Here, we applied integrated multi-omics analysis to explore molecular alterations in the bladder over time and their sensitivity to inosine following SCI. Canonical signaling pathways regulated by SCI included those associated with protein synthesis, neuroplasticity, wound healing, and neurotransmitter degradation. Upstream regulator and causal network analysis predicted multiple effectors of DNA damage response signaling following injury, including PARP1. Markers of DNA damage (gammaH2AX, ATM/ATR substrates) and PARP activity (poly-ADP-ribose) were increased in bladder tissue following SCI and attenuated with inosine treatment. Inosine treatment also attenuated oxidative DNA damage in rat bladder cells in vitro. Proteomics analysis suggested that SCI induced changes in protein synthesis-, neuroplasticity-, and oxidative stress-associated pathways, a subset of which were shown in transcriptomics data to be inosine-sensitive. These findings provide insights into the molecular landscape of the bladder following SCI and identify key inosine-sensitive pathways associated with injury.
PXD062388	40341440	Hepatic AKAP1 deficiency exacerbates diet-induced MASLD by enhancing GPAT1-mediated lysophosphatidic acid synthesis. 	Hepatic AKAP1 Deficiency Exacerbates Diet-Induced MASLD by Enhancing GPAT1-mediated Lysophosphatidic Acid Synthesis	AKAP1, GPAT1, Lysophosphatidic Acid, MASLD, triglyceride synthesis.	Metabolic dysfunction-associated steatotic liver disease (MASLD), closely associated with obesity, can progress to metabolic dysfunction-associated steatohepatitis when the liver undergoes overt inflammatory damage. A-kinase anchoring protein 1 (AKAP1) has been shown to control lipid accumulation in brown adipocytes. However, the role of AKAP1 signaling in hepatic lipid metabolism and MASLD remains poorly understood. Here, we showed that hepatocyte-specific AKAP1 deficiency exacerbated hepatic steatosis and steatohepatitis in male mice subjected to a high-fat diet and fast-food diet, respectively. Mechanistically, AKAP1 directly phosphorylated and inactivated glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase 1 (GPAT1) in a PKA-dependent manner, thus suppressing lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) production. Increased endogenous LPA in hepatocytes promoted hepatocellular triglyceride (TG) synthesis and initiated pronounced inflammatory response in Kupffer cells. Restoring hepatic AKAP1 or repressing LPA levels via GPAT1 knockdown alleviated MASLD exacerbation. Overall, AKAP1 plays a protective role against MASLD by inhibiting GPAT1 activity, highlighting the potential of targeting AKAP1/PKA/GPAT1 signalosome for MASLD therapy.
PXD061830	40341994	SNX10 regulates the proliferation, apoptosis and cell cycle of acute B lymphoblastic leukemia cells via the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway. 	SNX10 regulates the proliferation, apoptosis and cell cycle of acute B lymphoblastic leukemia cells via the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway	B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia, PI3K/Akt signaling pathway, apoptosis, bioinformatics analysis, cell cycle, proliferation, sorting nexin 10	B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (B-ALL) is a type of acute lymphoblastic leukemia that originates from B cells. It typically occurs in children and adolescents, but it can also appear in adults. Sorting nexin 10 (SNX10) has recently been identified as a significant regulatory factor in various tumors, although its specific roles remain contested. However, its function in B-ALL has not been previously explored. The present study investigated the role of SNX10 in B-ALL pathogenesis. Bioinformatics analysis identified SNX10 as a Core Hub gene in the B-ALL signaling network, with significantly reduced expression in patients with B-ALL. These findings were corroborated through analysis of clinical bone marrow samples and B-ALL cell lines. Functional in vitro studies revealed that SNX10 knockdown markedly inhibited B-ALL cell proliferation, increased apoptosis, and arrested cells in the G0/G1 phase. By contrast, SNX10 overexpression enhanced cell proliferation, suppressed apoptosis and promoted G2/M phase progression. Proteomic analysis further implicated the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway in mediating the effects of SNX10. Specifically, SNX10 overexpression increased the phosphorylation levels of PI3K and Akt, while SNX10 knockdown had the opposite effect. In vivo experiments demonstrated that elevated SNX10 expression accelerated leukemia progression in a mouse model. Collectively, these findings highlighted the pivotal role of SNX10 in promoting B-ALL cell proliferation via the PI3K pathway, highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target for B-ALL and providing a foundation for future investigations.
PXD057812	40342270	Synovial fluid alpha-2-macroglobulin, gelsolin and lubricin distinguish between osteoarthritic and healthy equine joints. 	Synovial Fluid Alpha-2-Macroglobulin, Gelsolin, and Lubricin Distinguish Between Osteoarthritic and Healthy Equine Joints	alpha-2-macroglobulin, arthritis, carpus, gelsolin, horse, lubricin	BACKGROUND: Synovial fluid (SF) is an ideal sentinel fluid for osteoarthritis (OA) diagnosis and prognostication due to its critical homeostatic role, proximity to articular tissues and immune cell composition. Untargeted proteomics enable identification of soluble markers for diagnostic and therapeutic applications while minimising bias. OBJECTIVES: To use liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to define the SF proteome in horses with and without carpal OA. The goal was to identify differentially regulated proteins in mild-moderate carpal joint disease compared with healthy joints. STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional study. METHODS: Synovial fluid was obtained from horses undergoing arthroscopic treatment for carpal fragmentation and from horses with healthy carpal joints. LC-MS/MS proteomics was performed on a subset of joints (n = 8 OA, n = 8 healthy). Total protein (TP), gelsolin, lubricin and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2) concentrations were quantified via biochemical or immunoassays (n = 58 OA, n = 25 healthy), and synovial membrane histology was graded (n = 16 OA, n = 6 healthy). Univariate and multivariate modelling were used to compare the predictive capacities of soluble factors between healthy and OA joints. RESULTS: Of 119 proteins identified, 14 were increased and 10 decreased in OA. Two of the most upregulated proteins included pregnancy zone protein and alpha-2-macroglobulin. In OA, gelsolin/TP was decreased (OA median: 0.48 mug/mL/mg [95% confidence interval 0.27-0.73]; healthy: 0.89 mug/mL/mg [0.63-1.17]) and lubricin/TP increased (OA: 27.98 mug/mL/mg, [21.71-45.79]; healthy: 6.77 mug/mL/mg [4.36-9.94]) when measured by immunoassay. Multivariate modelling including gelsolin/TP, lubricin/TP and PGE2 was superior to univariate models for differentiating between OA and healthy joints. MAIN LIMITATIONS: Synovial membrane was available for a limited number of joints and most healthy samples were collected following euthanasia. CONCLUSIONS: The upregulation of pregnancy zone protein and alpha-2-macroglobulin in OA joints motivates investigation into their function in OA and development of reagents for quantification. Several proteins with differential abundance in OA SF, including gelsolin and lubricin, were measured and may have diagnostic utility.
PXD058880	40342411	SAPrIm 2.0: a semi-automated protocol for mid-throughput soluble HLA immunopeptidomics. 	SAPrIm 2.0: A semi-automated protocol for mid-throughput soluble HLA immunopeptidomics	HLA, MHC, SAPrIm, immunopeptidomics, plasma immunopeptidomics, sHLA, soluble HLA	Human leukocyte antigen (HLA) molecules are pivotal in guiding human adaptive immune responses through their presentation of peptide ligands, collectively known as the immunopeptidome. This process is central to the development of cancer immunotherapies, such as vaccines and T-cell therapies. Profiling the immunopeptidome from plasma and other biofluids has gained increasing traction, as it offers a minimally invasive approach for monitoring disease states and immune responses toward cancer therapy. Here we present the second iteration of SAPrIm, a refined immunopeptidomics tool optimized for soluble HLA analysis. It can process up to 12 samples per batch within a day. In this plasma-focused iteration, we identified approximately 1,200 to 4,000 immunopeptides from 100 microL to 1 mL of plasma, demonstrating high reproducibility across technical replicates, biological replicates, and inter-day analyses. This robust reproducibility highlights the method's strong potential for reliable relative quantification of immunopeptides in plasma-based studies. This workflow is positioned to advance the field of immunopeptidomics by enabling efficient plasma-based comparative analyses and mid-size cohort studies.
PXD049425	40343969	Distinct modes of interaction within eIF4F-like complexes and susceptibility to the RocA inhibitor for the Trypanosoma brucei EIF4AI translation initiation factor. 	Comparative analysis of the interactome of a homologue of the DEAD-box RNA helicase eIF4A and its mutant version (DQAD) from Trypanosoma brucei	RNA helicase, eIF4A, eIF4F, translation initiation	Trypanosomatids are parasitic protozoa responsible for major human diseases which are characterized by unique gene expression mechanisms. mRNA translation in these parasites is associated with multiple eIF4F-like complexes, required for mRNA recruitment and ribosome binding. The eukaryotic eIF4F is generally known to require the action of eIF4A, an ATP-dependent RNA helicase, in order to function properly, but not all trypanosomatid eIF4F complexes might require EIF4AI, their single eIF4A homologue. In mammals, eIF4A is known to be targeted by specific inhibitors and can thus be considered a potential target for a selective inhibition of translation in these parasites. Here, aiming to better define the EIF4AI functionality, we started by investigating its interactome in Trypanosoma brucei, confirming a strong interaction with only one of five eIF4F-like complexes found in trypanosomatids, based on the EIF4E4/EIF4G3 subunits. Nevertheless, when the interactome of a mutant EIF4AI (DEAD/DQAD), known to be impacted on its ATPase activity, was investigated, the only eIF4F-like complex found was based on the EIF4E3/EIF4G4 pair, with many translation-related and other proteins also found with the mutant protein. When both wild-type and mutant proteins were also investigated through a fluorescent-based tethering assay, a stimulatory effect on mRNA expression was confirmed for EIF4AI, but not for the mutant protein. Sensitivity to the Rocaglamide A (RocA) inhibitor, which targets the mammalian eIF4A, was also investigated, with the inhibitor blocking the stimulation seen on the tethering assay. Parasite susceptibility to RocA was further assessed in T. brucei and Leishmania infantum, with both, and specially T. brucei, being much less susceptible to the drug than mammalian cells. This phenotype correlates with changes in EIF4AI within the RocA binding pocket where, in comparison with the mammalian eIF4A, a phenylalanine to valine substitution in the T. brucei EIF4AI likely impairs RocA binding. Our results help better define the EIF4AI mode of action in T. brucei and provide relevant data which might support future searches for specific EIF4AI inhibitors.
PXD046362	40345165	In-Depth Cell-Type-Specific Proteome Landscape of the Brain from Human Amyloid-beta Overexpression Mouse Model. 	iCAB: Development of an in situ cell-type specific proteome analysis method using antibody-mediated biotinylation	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Cell-type-specifi, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Brain Proteome Project (HUPO_HBPP) (B/D-HPP), astrocytes, brain, microglia., neuron	Amyloid-beta (Abeta) plays a crucial role in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. Understanding how Abeta overexpression alters the proteome of individual brain cell types is essential but challenging due to the nature of brain tissue, which contains intermingled various cell types. The current methods for cell-type-specific proteomics either require genetic modifications or complex cell isolation, limiting their use. This study introduces a novel method, in situ cell-type-specific proteome analysis using antibody-mediated biotinylation (iCAB), which applies immunohistochemistry with biotin-tyramide to target cell-specific proteins directly in tissue. Applied to 5xFAD mice, iCAB enables us to identify =~8000 cell-type-specific proteomes with significantly more differentially expressed proteins than traditional bulk proteome methods, pinpointing unique pathways such as mRNA processing, calcium regulation, and phagocytosis for neurons, astrocytes, and microglia, respectively. This study reports in-depth the cell-type-specific brain proteome landscape of the human Abeta overexpression mouse model for the first time using an innovative tool that is powerful, straightforward, and applicable to both animal models and human tissues, without the need for prior genetic alterations.
PXD058271	40345371	Multi-omics insights into the response of Aspergillus parasiticus to long-chain alkanes in relation to polyethylene modification. 	Multi-omics insights into the response of Aspergillus parasiticus to long-chain alkanes in relation to polyethylene modification	Aspergillus, ProteomeXchange project tag: EPIC-XS, alkanes, biodegradation, extracellular, fungi, multi-omics, plastic pollution, secretome	Plastic pollution presents a global challenge, with polyethylene (PE) being among the most persistent plastics due to its durability and environmental resilience. Long-chain alkane (lcAlk) degrading microbes are a potential source of PE-degrading enzymes, as both lcAlk and PE are large hydrophobic compounds that consist exclusively of C-C and C-H bonds. In this work, we employed a multi-omics approach to study the ability of Aspergillus parasiticus MM36, an isolate derived from Tenebrio molitor intestines, to metabolize lcAlk and secrete enzymes that are potentially capable of modifying PE. The fungus was grown with hexadecane (C16) or a mixture of lcAlk (C24 to C36) as carbon sources and culture supernatants were tested daily for their ability to modify PE. Proteomic analysis identified induced oxidases hypothetically involved in lcAlk and PE functionalization. Key enzymes include multicopper oxidases, peroxidases, an unspecific peroxygenase and FAD-dependent monooxygenases. Surfactant proteins facilitating enzymatic and cellular interaction with hydrophobic substrates, such as one hydrophobin, three hydrophobic surface-binding proteins (HsbA) and one cerato platanin, were present in all secretomes. Transcriptomic analysis comparing lcAlk to C16 cultures highlighted the enrichment of oxidoreductase activities and carboxylic acid metabolism in both lcAlk incubation days, with transmembrane transporters and transferases predominating on day 2 and biosynthetic processes on day 3. In C16 cultures, hydrolytic enzymes, including esterases, were upregulated alongside Baeyer-Villiger monooxygenases, suggesting a shift toward sub-terminal hydroxylation. Integrating transcriptomic and secretomic data, we propose a mechanism for lcAlk assimilation by A. parasiticus MM36, involving extracellular oxyfunctionalization, hydrocarbon uptake via surface-modifying proteins and channeling through membrane transporters for energy consumption and biosynthetic processes. This study provides insights into fungal mechanisms for alkane metabolism and highlights their potential relevance to plastic biotransformation.
PXD056736	40346031	Therapeutic hyperthermia promotes lipid export and HSP70/90 during machine perfusion of human livers. 	Therapeutic hyperthermia promotes lipid export and HSP70/90 during machine perfusion of human livers	Liver, hyperthermia, machine perfusion, transplant	Liver transplantation is the only curative option for end-stage liver disease. Donor shortages necessitate the use of higher risk donor livers, including fatty livers, which are more susceptible to ischemia-reperfusion injury. Machine perfusion has improved graft utilization and is typically performed at hypothermic (8-12degreesC) or normothermic (35-37degreesC) temperatures. Here we studied the impact of mild hyperthermia (40degreesC) as a therapeutic intervention for fatty livers using in-depth proteomic and lipoprotein profiling of whole organ perfusion and precision-cut liver slices. We observed proteomic changes with metabolic alterations over time, evidenced by a significant increase in lipid export in whole organ perfusions. Furthermore, PCLS showed significant upregulation of metabolic processes and heat shock protein response after 24 h of hyperthermia. Machine perfusion under hyperthermic conditions may be a potential strategy to improve the utilization of fatty liver grafts, ultimately expanding the donor pool and improving transplant outcomes.
PXD057365	40346034	BiDAC-dependent degradation of plasma membrane proteins by the endolysosomal system. 	Morphological and genetic screens reveal mechanisms of BiDAC-induced plasma membrane protein degradation	AP-MS, Q Exactive	The discovery of bifunctional degradation activating compounds (BiDACs) has led to the development of a new class of drugs that promote the clearance of their protein targets. BiDAC-induced ubiquitination is generally believed to direct cytosolic and nuclear proteins to proteolytic destruction by proteasomes. However, pathways that govern the degradation of other classes of BiDAC targets, such as integral membrane and intraorganellar proteins, have not been investigated in depth. In this study we use morphological profiling and CRISPR/Cas9 genetic screens to investigate the mechanisms by which BiDACs induce the degradation of plasma membrane receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) EGFR and Her2. We find that BiDAC-dependent ubiquitination triggers the trafficking of RTKs from the plasma membrane to lysosomes for degradation. Notably, functional proteasomes are required for endocytosis of RTKs upstream of the lysosome. Additionally, our screen uncovers a non-canonical function of the lysosome-associated arginine/lysine transporter PQLC2 in EGFR degradation. Our data show that BiDACs can target proteins to proteolytic machinery other than the proteasome and motivate further investigation of mechanisms that govern the degradation of diverse classes of BiDAC targets.
PXD060509	40346547	Multi-omics integration reveals Vha68-3 as a testicular aging-specific factor that coordinates spermatid elongation through mitochondrial metabolic homeostasis. 	Identification of Vha68-3 binding proteins by LC-MS/MS	Drosophila Schneider 2, Vha68-3, immunocoprecipitation	BACKGROUND: Testicular aging has profound effects on spermatogenesis, sperm function, and the spermatogenic microenvironment, contributing to reduced male fertility. However, the precise molecular mechanisms by which mitochondria influence spermiogenesis during aging still remain largely unclear. METHODS: Vha68-3 KO flies were generated using the CRISPR/Cas9 technique. Testicular phenotypes and functions were mainly observed through immunofluorescence staining and transmission electron microscopy. Multi-omics study was mainly conducted through single-cell RNA sequencing and transcriptome-metabolomics association analysis. Vha68-3 binding proteins were identified via liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. The therapeutic potential of modulating mitochondrial metabolism for testicular aging mainly relied on the dietary intake of related compounds in fruit flies. RESULTS: In this study, we identified Vha68-3, a testis-specific subunit of the V-type adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthase, predominantly localized in the tails of elongated spermatids, as a key age-related regulator of male fertility and spermatid elongation in Drosophila testes. Crucially, Vha68-3 deficiency impaired mitochondrial homeostasis in elongated spermatids during testicular aging. Through a multi-omics approach, including single-cell transcriptomics, protein interaction mapping of Vha68-3, and transcriptome-metabolome integration, we identified pyruvate metabolism as a critical pathway disrupted by Vha68-3 deficiency. Moreover, dietary supplementation with pyruvate (PA), S-lactoylglutathione (SLG), and phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) effectively alleviated mitochondrial dysfunction and testicular aging linked to Vha68-3 deficiency. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings uncover novel mechanisms by which mitochondrial metabolism regulates spermatid elongation and propose potential therapeutic strategies to combat mitochondrial metabolic disorders in aging testes.
PXD063272	40348747	An approach to characterize mechanisms of action of anti-amyloidogenic compounds in vitro and in situ. 	An approach to characterize mechanisms of action of anti-amyloidogenic compounds in vitro and in situ	LiP-MS, alpha-synuclein, anti-amyloidogenic compounds	Amyloid aggregation is associated with neurodegenerative disease and its modulation is a focus of drug development. We developed a chemical proteomics pipeline to probe the mechanism of action of anti-amyloidogenic compounds. Our approach identifies putative interaction sites with high resolution, can probe compound interactions with specific target conformations and directly in cell and brain extracts, and identifies off-targets. We analysed interactions of six anti-amyloidogenic compounds and the amyloid binder Thioflavin T with different conformations of the Parkinson's disease protein alpha-Synuclein and tested specific compounds in cell or brain lysates. AC Immune compound 2 interacted with alpha-Synuclein in vitro, in intact neurons and in neuronal lysates, reduced neuronal alpha-Synuclein levels in a seeded model, and had protective effects. EGCG, Baicalein, ThT and doxycycline interacted with alpha-Synuclein in vitro but not substantially in cell lysates, with many additional putative targets, underscoring the importance of testing compounds in situ. Our pipeline will enable screening of compounds against any amyloidogenic proteins in cell and patient brain extracts and mechanistic studies of compound action.
PXD056069	40348773	SUMO2/3 modification of transcription-associated proteins controls cell viability in response to oxygen and glucose deprivation-mediated stress. 	SUMO2/3 modification of transcription-associated proteins controls cell viability in response to oxygen and glucose deprivation-mediated stress	OGD, SENP7, cell viability, hypoxia, sumoylation	Because limited oxygen and glucose supply to tissues is a serious challenge that cells must properly measure to decide between surviving or triggering cell death, organisms have developed accurate mechanisms for sensing and signaling these conditions. In recent years, signaling through posttranslational modification of proteins by covalent attachment of the Small Ubiquitin-like Modifier (SUMO) is gaining notoriety. Enhanced sumoylation in response to oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) constitutes a safeguard mechanism for cells and a new avenue for therapeutic intervention. However, indiscriminate global sumoylation can limit the therapeutic potential that a more precise action on selected targets would have. To clear up this, we have conducted a proteomic approach in P19 cells to identify specific SUMO targets responding to OGD and to investigate the potential that these targets and their sumoylation have in preserving cells from death. Proteins undergoing sumoylation in response to OGD are mostly related to transcription and RNA processing, and the majority of them are rapidly desumoylated when restoring oxygen and glucose (ROG), confirming the high dynamics of this modification. Since OGD is linked to brain ischemia, we have also studied cells differentiated into neurons. However, no major differences have been observed between the SUMO-proteomes of proliferating and differentiated cells. We show that the overexpression of the transcription factor SOX2 or the SUMO ligase PIAS4 has a manifest cell protective effect largely depending on their sumoylation, and that maintaining the sumoylation capacity of the coregulator NAB2 is also important to face OGD. Conversely, sumoylation of the pluripotency factor OCT4, which is sumoylated under OGD, and is a target of the SUMO protease SENP7 for desumoylation after ROG, seems to block its cell survival-promoting capacity. Thus, better outcomes in cell protection would rely on the appropriate combination of sumoylated and non-sumoylated forms of selected factors.
PXD061696	40348885	Recombinant Protein Spectral Library (rPSL) DIA-MS method improves identification and quantification of low-abundance cancer-associated and kynurenine pathway proteins. 	Recombinant Protein Spectral Library (rPSL) DIA-MS Method Improves Identification and Quantification of Low-Abundance Cancer-Associated and Kynurenine Pathway Proteins	Cancer- Associated Proteins, Cell Lysates, DIA-MS, Kynurenine Pathway Proteins, Recombinant Protein Spectral Library, Snap frozen tissues, rPSL	Data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) is a powerful tool for quantitative proteomics, but a well-constructed reference spectral library is crucial to optimize DIA analysis, particularly for low-abundance proteins. In this study, we evaluate the efficacy of a recombinant protein spectral library (rPSL), generated from tryptic digestion of 42 human recombinant proteins, in enhancing the detection and quantification of lower-abundance cancer-associated proteins. Additionally, we generated a combined sample-specific biological-rPSL by integrating the rPSL with a spectral library derived from pooled biological samples. We compared the performance of these libraries for DIA data extraction with standard methods, including sample-specific biological spectral library and library-free DIA methods. Our specific focus was on quantifying cancer-associated proteins, including key enzymes involved in kynurenine pathway, across patient-derived tissues and cell lines. Both rPSL and biological-rPSL-DIA approaches provided significantly improved coverage of lower-abundance proteins, enhancing sensitivity and more consistent protein quantification across matched tumour and adjacent noncancerous tissues from breast and colorectal cancer patients and in cancer cell lines. Overall, our study demonstrates that rPSL and biological-rPSL coupled with DIA-MS workflows, can address the limitations of both biological library-based and library-free DIA methods, offering a robust approach for quantifying low-abundance cancer-associated proteins in complex biological samples.
PXD051979	40349173	Emergence and disruption of cooperativity in a denitrifying microbial community. 	Nitrite toxicity drives nitrous oxide accumulation in a cooperative denitrifying synthetic community	Denitrification, Microbial community, Nitrogen Cycle, SynCom	Anthropogenic perturbations to the nitrogen cycle, primarily through use of synthetic fertilizers, is driving an unprecedented increase in the emission of nitrous oxide (N2O), a potent greenhouse gas and an ozone depleting substance, causing urgency in identifying the sources and sinks of N2O. Microbial denitrification is a primary contributor to biotic production of N2O in anoxic regions of soil, marine systems, and wastewater treatment facilities. Here, through comprehensive genome analysis, we show that pathway partitioning is a ubiquitous mechanism of complete denitrification within microbial communities. We have investigated mechanisms and consequences of process partitioning of denitrification through detailed physiological characterization and kinetic modeling of a synthetic community of Rhodanobacter thiooxydans FW510-R12 and Acidovorax sp. GW101-3H11. We have discovered that these two bacterial isolates, from a heavily nitrate (NO3-) contaminated superfund site, complete denitrification through the exchange of nitrite (NO2-) and nitric oxide (NO). The process partitioning of denitrification and other processes, including amino acid metabolism, contribute to increased cooperativity within this denitrifying community. We demonstrate that certain contexts, such as high NO3-, cause unbalanced growth of community members, due to differences in their substrate utilization kinetics. The altered growth characteristics of community members drives accumulation of toxic NO2-, which disrupts denitrification causing N2O off gassing.
PXD061808	40349777	Phosphorylation of SNX17 impedes activation of Retriever-mediated sorting. 	Phosphorylation of SNX17 impedes activation of Retriever-mediated sorting	Retriever, endosome, integrin, intracellular trafficking, phosphorylation, phox domain, sorting nexin	Sorting nexin 17 (SNX17) functions as cargo receptor on endosomal membranes that enables the recycling of numerous membrane cargo proteins by binding to the Retriever complex. Yet, little is known how SNX17 activity or its membrane recruitment is regulated. Here, we report that phosphorylation of SNX17 at serine 38 (Ser38) within the phox (PX) domain serves as a critical regulatory switch governing its endosomal localization and function. A mutant form mimicking the phosphorylated state disrupts SNX17's ability to bind phosphatidylinositol-3-phosphate (PI3P), which in turn impairs its association with early endosomal membranes and inactivates SNX17-dependent cargo-recycling in cells. Furthermore, our results demonstrate that Ser38 is part of an autoinhibitory mechanism to regulate SNX17 cargo binding. Collectively, these findings provide new insights into the dynamic regulation of SNX17 activity and Retriever-mediated sorting processes. It also highlights SNX17 Ser38 phosphorylation as a critical regulatory mechanism that controls SNX17's endosomal localization and cargo recycling function.
PXD059098	40351306	Lactobacillus probiotic cell-free supernatants and vitamin D influence interleukin-6 production and mitigate oral periodontopathogens-induced cytotoxicity in FaDu cells. 	Lactobacillus Probiotic Cell-free Supernatants and Vitamin D Influence Interleukin-6 Production and Mitigate Oral Periodontopathogens-induced Cytotoxicity	Interleukin-6, Lactobacillus Probiotic, Mass-spectrometry, Vitamin D	Oral eubiosis is of utmost importance for local and systemic health. Consolidated habits, as excessive alcohol consumption, smoke, inappropriate oral hygiene, and western diet, exert detrimental effects on oral microbiota composition and function. This leads to caries, gingivitis, and periodontitis, also increasing the risk of preterm births, inflammation, and cancer. Thus, effective tools to contain pathobiont overgrowth and virulence and restore oral eubiosis are needed. Therefore, the effects of Limosilactobacillus reuteri LRE11, Lacticaseibacillus rhamnosus LR04, Lacticaseibacillus casei LC04, and their co-culture cell-free supernatants (CFSs), produced in both conventional MRS medium and a novel animal derivative-free medium named TIL, along with vitamin D, were assessed on the viability and interleukin (IL)-6 production of oral epithelial FaDu cells infected with Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans, Fusobacterium nucleatum, and Porphyromonas gingivalis. The CFS proteomic, short chain fatty acid, and lactic acid contents were also investigated. Interestingly, probiotic CFSs and vitamin D differentially reduced the infected cell IL-6 production and counteracted the infection-induced cytotoxicity. Taken together, these results suggest that probiotics and vitamin D can reverse pathogen-induced cell damage. Since probiotic CFS effect is both strain and growth medium composition dependent, further experiments are required to deepen the probiotic and vitamin D synergic activity in this context.
PXD050569	40354766	Protein S-glutathionylation confers cellular resistance to ferroptosis induced by glutathione depletion. 	Mass-spectroscopic quantification of CHAC1-regulated protein cysteine S-glutathionylation	CHAC1, S-glutathionylation, acetaminophen, ferroptosis, hepatocytes	Ferroptosis is one of the most critical biological consequences of glutathione depletion. Excessive oxidative stress, indicated by an elevated oxidized glutathione (GSSG)/reduced glutathione (GSH) ratio, is recognized as a key driver of ferroptosis. However, in glutathione depletion-induced ferroptosis, a marked decrease in total glutathione levels (including both GSH and GSSG) is frequently observed, yet its significance remains understudied. Protein S-glutathionylation (protein-SSG) levels are closely linked to the redox state and cellular glutathione pools including GSH and GSSG. To date, the role of protein-SSG during cell ferroptosis induced by glutathione depletion remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrated that upregulation of CHAC1, a glutathione-degrading enzyme, acted as a key regulator of protein-SSG formation and exacerbated glutathione depletion-induced ferroptosis. This effect was observed in both in vitro and in vivo models, including erastin-induced ferroptosis across multiple cell lines and acetaminophen overdose-triggered ferroptosis in hepatocytes. Deficiency of CHAC1 resulted in increased glutathione pools, enhanced protein-SSG, improved liver function, and attenuation of hepatocyte ferroptosis upon acetaminophen challenge. These protective effects were reversed by CHAC1 overexpression. Using quantitative redox proteomics, we identified glutathione pool-sensitive S-glutathionylated proteins. As an important example, we discovered that ADP-ribosylation factor 6 (ARF6) was regulated by S-glutathionylation during glutathione depletion-induced ferroptosis. Our findings revealed that CHAC1 upregulation reduced the S-glutathionylation of ARF6, resulting in decreased ARF6 levels in lysosomes. This, in turn, enhanced the localization of the transferrin receptor (TFRC) on the cell membrane and increased transferrin uptake, ultimately compromising the protective role of ARF6 in ferroptosis induced by glutathione depletion. Targeting TFRC using GalNAc-siTfrc mitigated acetaminophen-induced liver injury in vivo. In conclusion, our study provide evidence that availability of glutathione pools affects protein S-glutathionylation and regulates protein functions to influence the process of ferroptosis, which opens an avenue to understanding the cell ferroptosis induced by glutathione depletion.
PXD061119	40355422	Multi-omic analysis reveals a CAF-stemness-governed classification in HCC liver transplant recipients beyond the Milan criteria. 	Multi-omic analysis reveals a CAF-stemness-governed classification in HCC liver transplant recipients	cancer-associated fibroblast, hepatocellular carcinoma, liver transplantation, molecular subtypes, stemness	In patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) meeting the Milan criteria, liver transplantation (LT) is an effective therapy. This study aims to define the survival-related molecular biological features helping precisely identifying the patients with HCC beyond the Milan criteria who have acceptable outcomes. In the derivation cohort, integrated analyses of tumor tissues are conducted using RNA sequencing (RNA-seq), proteomic landscape, and transposase-accessible chromatin sequencing (ATAC-seq). Based on transcriptomics, three subgroups that significantly differ in overall survival were identified in the derivation cohort, and these findings are validated in an independent cohort. In-depth bioinformatics analysis using RNA-seq and proteomics reveals that the promotion of cancer stemness by cancer-associated fibroblasts (CAFs) can be responsible for the negative biological characteristics observed in high-risk HCC patients. The ATAC-seq identifies key factors regulating transcription, which may bridge CAF infiltration and stemness. Finally, we demonstrate that the CAF-derived CXCL12 sustains the stemness of HCC cells by promoting XRCC5 through CXCR4.
PXD055192	40355756	The solute carrier superfamily interactome. 	Quantitative proteome profiling in HEK293 to validate RNAi targets	DIA, SLC interactors, Validation of siRNAs, full proteome	Solute carrier (SLC) transporters form a protein superfamily that enables transmembrane transport of diverse substrates including nutrients, ions and drugs. There are about 450 different SLCs, residing in a variety of subcellular membranes. Loss-of-function of an unusually high proportion of SLC transporters is genetically associated with a plethora of human diseases, making SLCs a rapidly emerging but challenging drug target class. Knowledge of their protein environment may elucidate the molecular basis for their functional integration with metabolic and cellular pathways and help conceive pharmacological interventions based on modulating proteostatic regulation. We aimed at obtaining a global survey of the SLC-protein interaction landscape and mapped the protein-protein interactions of 396 SLCs by interaction proteomics. We employed a functional assessment based on RNA interference of interactors in combination with measurement of protein stability and localization. As an example, we detail the role of a SLC16A6 phospho-degron and the contributions of PDZ-domain proteins LIN7C and MPP1 to the trafficking of SLC43A2. Overall, our work offers a resource for SLC-protein interactions for the scientific community.
PXD058948	40356199	Comprehensive Comparison of Methods for Isolation of Extracellular Vesicles from Human Plasma. 	Comparison of EVs isolated from human plasma using different methods	DIA, Extracellular vesicles, human plasma	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are a vital component in cell-cell communication and hold significant potential as biomarkers and therapeutic carriers. Having a reproducible and simple EV isolation method for small volumes of human plasma is essential for biomarker discovery. Although combining multiple methods has been a recent trend in its ability to minimize contamination, it is not ideal for clinical specimens due to the large sample number and small sample volume. This study compared EVs isolated from 100 muL of plasma by nine commonly used methods based on different principles, including centrifugation, polymer precipitation, size exclusion, electrostatic interaction, and affinity enrichment. The isolated EVs were characterized by particle size and number using nanoparticle tracking analysis, purity, and contaminants using Simple Western and overall proteomic profiles using bottom-up proteomics. Despite the same EV enrichment principle, individual methods isolated EVs exhibited distinct characteristics, likely due to variations in the physicochemical properties of materials used and specific protocols. Overall, all of the methods evaluated are reproducible. MagNet and MagCap methods result in purer EVs with the narrowest size distribution and the highest proteome coverage but modest yield. This is the first report on isolating EVs from 100 muL of plasma using nine different methods with detailed characterization.
PXD056594	40356658	Megavirus baoshanense Mb0671 modulates host translation and increases viral fitness. 	Megavirus Translation Initiation Factor 4A Plays an Important Role in the Regulation of Viral and Host Protein Translation and Host Adaptation	Megavirus, Putative Translation Initiation Factor 4A	Amoeba giant viruses encode many translation-related proteins, but the function of these proteins remains obscure. In the current work, we studied the potential eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4A (eIF4A, Mb0671) encoded by Megavirus baoshanense, a member of the family Mimiviridae. The protein was shown to possesse ATPase activity and RNA-binding capacity, localize in the cytoplasm of infected cells, and present in mature virions. Interactome analysis showed that Mb0671 interacted primarily with ribosomal proteins and translation-related proteins. Specifically, Mb0671 was found to interact indirectly with host eIF4A, suggesting that it was associated with the translation apparatus. Proteomic analysis revealed that the protein profile of Acanthamoeba castellanii cells stably expressing Mb0671 was altered significantly compared to wild-type cells. The cellular proteins that were significantly upregulated included those in the pathways of spliceosome, amino acids biosynthesis, ribosome biogenesis, vesicular transportation, mTOR signaling pathway, etc. Both Mb0671 overexpression or siRNA-mediated reduction of its expression level significantly affected the synthesis of viral proteins. Furthermore, overexpressing Mb0671 accelerated cell growth and virus replication, whereas reduction of Mb0671 expression by siRNA delayed virus replication. These results suggested that Mb0671 altered cellular translation, possibly through its association with the host translation machinery, and played an important role in enhancing virus adaptability.
PXD056132	40356978	Resveratrol and N-acetylcystein reduce hepatic steatosis but enhance initiation and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma by inhibiting GST-pi-MAPK axis in mice. 	Resveratrol and N-acetylcystei reduce hepatic steatosis but enhance initiation and progression of hepatocellular carcinoma	GST-pi, N-acetylcystein, antioxidant, hepatocellular carcinoma, resveratrol	Introduction: Accumulating evidence indicates that antioxidants promote tumor growth and metastasis after tumor onset in several cancer types. However, whether antioxidants prevent or accelerate hepatic tumorigenesis during steatosis remains unknown. Therefore, we investigated the effects of resveratrol (RES) and N-acetylcysteine (NAC) on hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) development using two fatty liver mouse models. Methods: High-fat diet (HFD) plus diethylnitrosamine (DEN)- and AKT/Ras-induced primary HCC mouse models were used. The weight, liver weight ratio and the number of HCC tumors were calculated and histological features of mouse HCC tissues were analyzed using immumohistochemical staining such as hematoxylin and eosin staining. Proteomic analysis was used to screen for differences in liver cancer progression between antioxidant-treated HCC and models. Protein inhibitor recovery experiments in mice and in vitro cells validate the targets screened by proteomic analysis. The expression of GST-pi, p-JNK and p-p38 signaling molecules in HCC were investigated using Western blotting. Results: RES and NAC enhance HCC formation in both DEN/HFD and AKT/Ras mice. RES and NAC alleviate hepatosteatosis, and reduce ROS and DNA damage in mice. Proteomic analysis and protein inhibitor recovery assay demonstrated that GST-pi is a therapeutic target for antioxidant-induced hepatocellular carcinoma growth. Mechanistically, RES and NAC decreased p-JNK and p-p38, the two major mitogen-activated protein kinases, in HCC cells. Blockade of GST-pi abrogated the reduction in p-JNK and p-p38 levels and increased apoptosis of HCC cells. Conclusion: Antioxidants may increase the incidence of HCC in a population with fatty liver, despite reduction in ROS production, by inhibiting GST-pi-MAPK axis.
PXD061223	40359261	E-cadherin mechanotransduction activates EGFR-ERK signaling in epithelial monolayers by inducing ADAM-mediated ligand shedding. 	E-cadherin mechanotransduction activates EGFR/ERK signaling by inducing ligand shedding	E-cadherin force transduction EGFR ligand shedding	The behavior of cells is governed by signals originating from their local environment, including mechanical forces exerted on the cells. Forces are transduced by mechanosensitive proteins, which can impinge on signaling cascades that are also activated by growth factors. We investigated the cross-talk between mechanical and biochemical signals in the regulation of intracellular signaling networks in epithelial monolayers. Phosphoproteomic and transcriptomic analyses on epithelial monolayers subjected to mechanical strain revealed the activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) downstream of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) as a predominant strain-induced signaling event. Strain-induced EGFR-ERK signaling depended on mechanosensitive E-cadherin adhesions. Proximity labeling showed that the metalloproteinase ADAM17, an enzyme that mediates shedding of soluble EGFR ligands, was closely associated with E-cadherin. A probe that we developed to monitor ADAM-mediated shedding demonstrated that mechanical strain induced ADAM activation. Mechanically induced ADAM activation was essential for mechanosensitive, E-cadherin-dependent EGFR-ERK signaling. Together, our data demonstrate that mechanical strain transduced by E-cadherin adhesion triggers the shedding of EGFR ligands that stimulate downstream ERK activity. Our findings illustrate how mechanical signals and biochemical ligands can operate within a linear signaling cascade.
PXD047933	40359319	PROTEIN PHOSPHATASE2A B'eta drives spliceosome subunit dephosphorylation to mediate alternative splicing following heat stress. 	LC-MSMS analysis in Arabidopsis thaliana	A. thaliana, phosphorylation	Dephosphorylation of spliceosome components is an essential regulatory step for intron removal from pre-mRNA, thereby controlling gene expression. However, the specific phosphatase responsible for this dephosphorylation step has not been identified. Here, we show that Arabidopsis thaliana (Arabidopsis) PROTEIN PHOSPHATASE 2A B'eta (PP2A B'eta), a B subunit of PP2A, interacts with the splicing factors PRP18a, PRP16, and RH2 and facilitates their dephosphorylation by recognizing substrates through a conserved binding motif. This dephosphorylation is crucial for proper splicing of retained introns in heat stress-responsive genes, which is mediated by the PP2A interactor PRE-MRNA PROCESSING FACTOR 18a (PRP18a). Genetic inactivation of PP2A B'eta abolished thermotolerance during seed germination and resulted in widespread intron retention in heat stress-responsive genes. Conversely, overexpression of PP2A B'eta conferred enhanced thermotolerance, accompanied by the efficient removal of retained introns under heat stress. We demonstrate that a B regulatory subunit of PP2A plays a central role in dephosphorylating spliceosome components, regulating alternative splicing, facilitating acclimation to heat stress, and targeting specific spliceosome subunits that activate pre-mRNA splicing.
PXD045122	40359616	Cdc48 plays a crucial role in redox homeostasis through dynamic reshaping of its interactome during early stationary phase. 	Cdc48's interactions play a role in the cellular oxidative response in an aging-dependent manner	aging, redox	Most microbial cells on earth predominantly exist in non-proliferating, dormant conditions, such as the stationary state. The stationary phase is a crucial stage during the cellular lifespan, which requires homeostatic rewiring for long-term viability and rapid responses to environmental changes. Here, we show that entry to the stationary phase in yeast is accompanied by increased cytosolic and mitochondrial oxidation, imposing stress on the proteostasis network. We establish a functional link between redox and protein homeostasis, mediated by a key protein quality control member, Cdc48/p97/VCP. Comparative proteomic analysis of post-mitotic yeast cells reveals that while the global proteome remains largely stable during the first stages of stationary phase, the Cdc48 interactome undergoes significant remodeling, including altered interactions with antioxidants and its cofactors Shp1/Ubx1 and Ubx2. To challenge yeast Cdc48's capacity as a redox-switch protein during the early stages of the stationary phase, we utilized redox proteomics to map changes in reversible oxidation modification on Cdc48's cysteines upon entry to the stationary phase. We revealed the temporal and reversible oxidation of Cdc48-Cys115 as a key regulatory event essential for stationary-phase survival and interactome modulation. Cys115-to-serine mutation significantly reduced longevity and increased oxidative stress sensitivity, correlating with disrupted interactions between Cdc48 and antioxidants, and cofactor Shp1, specifically with the phosphorylated form of Shp1. Taken together, these findings identify a new thiol switch protein in the protein degradation pathway, while further defining novel roles for Cdc48 in reshaping the proteome during the yeast stationary phase.
PXD051615	40359838	The effect of cryopreservation on the turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) semen proteome. 	Proteomic analysis of fresh, equilibrated, and frozen/thawed turkey semen in relation to the extracellular fluid proteome	cryopreservation, semen, turkey	Two-dimensional difference in-gel electrophoresis coupled with matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry was employed to investigate the proteome alterations induced by equilibration and freezing/thawing processes, both in turkey spermatozoa and in extracellular fluid (ECF). The freezing/thawing process resulted in reduced semen quality parameters. Viability and motility decreased threefold (90.6 %-31.2 % and 76.0 %-26.7 %, respectively), while the proportion of live spermatozoa with intact mitochondrial membrane potential decreased fivefold (54.9 %-11.4 %). Additionally, oxidative stress increased sevenfold (10.5 %-68.8 %). A total of 146 differentially abundant protein spots were found between fresh and frozen/thawed spermatozoa, while 27 spots differentiated between fresh and frozen/thawed ECF. Immunofluorescence staining showed reduced signals of mitochondrial proteins, such as aconitate hydratase, alpha-enolase, glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, and triosephosphate isomerase, in the spermatozoa midpiece, as well as reduced signals of acrosin in the acrosome. Freezing/thawing affected mitochondrial energy metabolism, particularly the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle and oxidative phosphorylation. The maintenance of an acetyl-CoA pool to sustain TCA cycle activity in cryopreserved spermatozoa may be insufficient owing to disturbances in fatty acid beta-oxidation and/or aerobic glycolysis. Changes in the ECF primarily reflect the leakage of spermatozoa glycolytic enzymes. The freezing/thawing process alters motile cilium assembly, primarily affecting the spermatozoa axoneme and outer dense fibres. The initial step of fertilization may be disrupted by alterations in proteins involved in spermatozoa binding to the ovum. These findings extend our knowledge of the molecular and cellular mechanisms of cryodamage in turkey semen which is prerequisite for the improvement of semen preservation procedures.
PXD054330	40360154	Upregulations of SNAT2 and GLS-1 Are Key Osmoregulatory Responses of Human Corneal Epithelial Cells to Hyperosmotic Stress. 	Proteomic profiling of human corneal epithelial cells under hyperosmotic stress	cornea, dry eye disease, epithelia, hyperosmolarity	Dry eye syndrome (DES) affects millions of people worldwide. However, as the cellular responses of the corneal epithelium under hyperosmotic stress remain unclear, this study investigated the proteomic changes between human corneal epithelial cells (HCECs) cultured with isosmotic and hyperosmotic media. Under hyperosmotic stress, HCECs increased expressions of sodium-coupled neutral amino acid transporter (SNAT2), glutaminase (GLS-1), and a few isoforms of heat shock protein and aldo-keto reductase family 1. The expressions of SNAT2 and GLS-1 were increased after 6 h of exposure to hyperosmotic stress but not by glutamine deprivation. The hyperosmotic stress increased intracellular levels of glutamine, mitochondrial superoxide, and mitochondrial membrane potential and induced mitochondrial fission in HCECs. Thus, the intracellular level of glutamine was elevated in the hyperosmotic stressed HCECs via the upregulation of SNAT2. Glutamine can act as an osmolyte to regulate the osmolarity of HCECs or be converted to glutamate by GLS-1 for the tricarboxylic acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation to maintain ATP production under the hyperosmotic stress-induced mitochondrial fission. Thus, the increases in the expressions of SNAT2 and GLS-1 are key osmoregulations in HCECs upon the hyperosmotic stress and may act as corneal biomarkers for monitoring DES progression.
PXD062765	40360693	Unveiling the impact of cGMP-dependent protein kinase of Neospora caninum on calcium fluxes and egress functions through quantitative phosphoproteome analysis. 	Phosphoproteomic profiling of Neospora caninum tachyzoites and PKG inhibitor MBP146-78 treatment	Neospora caninum, PKG, Phosphoproteomic	Neospora caninum, a pathogen associated with abortion in pregnant cattle and motor nerve disorders in dogs, poses a substantial threat. Cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) functions as a central signal transduction hub in apicomplexan parasites. However, PKG has not been characterized in N. caninum, and its targets and pathways controlled by PKG remain unknown. Using a mini auxin-inducible degron system (mAID), we knocked down PKG in N. caninum, demonstrating its indispensable role in tachyzoite invasion and egress from host cells. PKG promotes microneme secretion and enhances tachyzoite gliding motility by elevating intracellular Ca(2+) levels ([Ca(2+)]i). Phosphoproteomics identified 1125 proteins as potential downstream targets of PKG, showing significantly reduced phosphorylation after treatment with the PKG inhibitor MBP146-78. These proteins are involved in signal transduction, transcriptional regulation, lipid transport and metabolism, vesicle transport, and ion transport. Additionally, CACNAP, a calcium channel-associated protein that facilitates calcium influx at the plasma membrane, plays a supportive role in the egress process of N. caninum. These findings underscore the importance of PKG and its downstream molecules in regulating egress, offering novel insights into the mechanisms underlying the activation of [Ca(2+)]i.
PXD062317	40360742	Further delineation of defects in MRPS2 causing human OXPHOS deficiency and early developmental abnormalities in zebrafish. 	Further delineation of defects in MRPS2 causing human OXPHOS deficiency and early developmental abnormalities in zebrafish	genetic disorder, mitochondrial disorder, rare disease	Mitochondrial ribosomal protein-small 2 (MRPS2) encodes a vital structural protein essential for assembling mitoribosomal small subunit and thus mitochondrial translation. Any defect in mitochondrial translation impacts OXPHOS activity and cellular respiration. Defects in MRPS2 have been implicated recently in four families with combined oxidative phosphorylation deficiency-36 (MIM# 617950). We herein describe two individuals from two unrelated families with variable phenotypes of acute onset severe metabolic decompensation and symptomatic hypoglycemia. Exome sequencing identified bi-allelic variants in MRPS2 (NM_016034.5) in the affected individuals: P1: c.490 G > A p.(Glu164Lys); and P2: c.413 G > A p.(Arg138His). Further evaluation of the variant c.490 G > A p.(Glu164Lys) in patient-derived skin fibroblasts revealed decreased expression of MRPS2 transcript and protein levels of MRPS2 along with expression of complex I and IV proteins. Proteomics analysis revealed decreased expression of small subunit proteins and increased expression of large subunit proteins. Also, reduced complex I and IV enzyme activities, mitochondrial respiration (OCR), and altered mitochondrial morphology on confocal imaging were observed. Additionally, mrps2 knockout zebrafish larvae demonstrated an abnormal developmental phenotype and reduced Complex IV activity. With these findings, we identify additional families with variants in MRPS2, illustrating the variable clinical spectrum and validate the pathogenicity of defects in MRPS2 through in-vitro and in-vivo assays.
PXD059496	40362085	Repairing Qinling Giant Panda Skin Wounds Using Adipose Mesenchymal Stem Cell-Derived Extracellular Vesicles. 	Protein profile of exosome derived from giant panda adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells	ACMSCs-ex, Qinling giant pandas	The Qinling giant panda has a high susceptibility to skin damage, which affects its survival. Although their healing efficacy in panda injuries remains unexplored, extracellular vesicles from adipose-derived mesenchymal stem cells (ADMSC-EVs) have shown promise in regenerative medicine. In this study, ADMSC-EVs were successfully obtained from Qinling giant pandas using ultracentrifugation, and proteomic techniques were used to analyze their composition and function. Primary skin fibroblasts from Qinling giant pandas were isolated and cultured to explore the effects of ADMSC-EVs on cell proliferation and migration. Additionally, a mouse model of skin injury was used to assess their wound healing effects. The ADMSC-EVs contained various substances, particularly proteins, with fifty unique proteins involved in transport, catabolism, and signal transduction identified. The application of ADMSC-EVs in a mouse model accelerated wound healing and promoted the regeneration of the epidermal and dermal layers. It facilitated the repair of skin appendages, including hair follicles and sebaceous glands. Additionally, ADMSC-EVs enhanced collagen deposition, stimulated angiogenesis, and reduced inflammation. Our findings confirm that ADMSC-EVs significantly improve skin healing, thus supporting the theoretical framework for the clinical use of giant panda extracellular vesicles and underscoring their potential for preserving the genetic resources of the Qinling giant panda.
PXD062737	40362319	Proteomics of Bacterial and Mouse Extracellular Vesicles Released in the Gastrointestinal Tracts of Nutrient-Stressed Animals Reveals an Interplay Between Microbial Serine Proteases and Mammalian Serine Protease Inhibitors. 	Comparative LC-MSMS Analysis of Extracellular Vesicles Extracted from Mouse Caecum in Fasted vs. Fed Mice	Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, Extraccellular vesicles	Bacterial extracellular vesicles (BEVs) produced by members of the intestinal microbiota can not only contribute to digestion but also mediate microbe-host cell communication via the transfer of functional biomolecules to mammalian host cells. An unresolved question is which host factors and conditions influence BEV cargo and how they impact host cell function. To address this question, we analysed and compared the proteomes of BEVs released by the major human gastrointestinal tract (GIT) symbiont Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron (Bt) in vivo in fed versus fasted animals using nano-liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MSMS). Among the proteins whose abundance was negatively affected by fasting, nine of ten proteins of the serine protease family, including the regulatory protein dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4), were significantly decreased in BEVs produced in the GITs of fasted animals. Strikingly, in extracellular vesicles produced by the intestinal epithelia of the same fasted mice, the proteins with the most increased abundance were serine protease inhibitors (serpins). Together, these findings suggest a dynamic interaction between GI bacteria and the host. Additionally, they indicate a regulatory role for the host in determining the balance between bacterial serine proteases and host serpins exported in bacterial and host extracellular vesicles.
PXD058928	40362639	Responses of Calligonum leucocladum to Prolonged Drought Stress Through Antioxidant System Activation, Soluble Sugar Accumulation, and Maintaining Photosynthetic Homeostasis. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of Calligonum leucocladum	Calligonum leucocladum, Drought stress, TMT quantitative proteomics analysis	Desert shrubs play an important role in the stability of arid and fragile desert ecosystems. However, despite their significant ecological importance, limited research has been performed on shrub drought tolerance strategies at the morphological, physiological, and molecular levels. Therefore, this study focused on the typical desert shrub, Calligonum leucocladum, and analyzed its morphology, physiology, and protein expression under two different habitats: moist low-salt and arid low-salt. The results indicate that drought stress inhibited the growth of C. leucocladum, leading to significant reductions in its plant height, base diameter, and crown width by 14.93%, 49.57%, and 48.49%, respectively. Drought stress triggered a 30% decline in stomatal conductance, whereas homeostasis was observed in net photosynthesis, intercellular CO2, and transpiration. The soluble sugar content significantly increased by 13.43%, while the starch, soluble protein, and proline content significantly decreased by 20.32%, 10.67%, and 55.61%, respectively. In addition, under drought stress, membrane peroxidation products, reactive oxygen species metabolites, and antioxidant enzyme activities significantly increased. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis revealed 40 proteins that were significantly enriched in the photosynthesis and oxidative phosphorylation pathways through KEGG enrichment analysis. In addition, C. leucocladum maintains photosynthetic homeostasis by enhancing PSII repair (PsbE, PsbL, PsbH) and electron transfer chain efficiency (PetD, nad 2, nad 9), thereby compensating for the insufficient carbon dioxide supply caused by stomatal limitation. This study integrated multidimensional data from morphology, physiology, and proteomics to reveal that C. leucocladum drives a coupled network of photosynthesis, antioxidant, and carbon metabolism through chloroplast translation reprogramming. It maintains photosynthetic homeostasis and osmotic balance under a 30% decrease in stomatal conductance, elucidating the cross-scale regulatory strategy of desert shrubs adapting to extreme drought.
PXD055363	40363807	A Selective MAP3K1 Inhibitor Facilitates Discovery of NPM1 as a Member of the Network. 	Quinoxaline analog selectively inhibits MAP3K1, blocks IKKbeta and NPM1 phosphorylation, and sensitizes pancreatic cancer to gemcitabine	IKKbeta, MAP3K1, NF-B, NPM1, pancreatic cancer, quinoxaline	The quinoxaline core is found in several biologically active compounds, with Erdafitinib being the first FDA-approved quinoxaline derivative that targets a kinase and exhibits anti-cancer properties. We previously reported a quinoxaline analog (84) that displayed anti-cancer effects by inhibiting IKKbeta, a key kinase in the NFkappaB pathway. Here, we present the synthesis of a regioisomer (51-106) and its characterization as a selective MAP3K1 inhibitor with improved metabolic stability and oral bioavailability. We used the small molecule MAP3K1 inhibitor in a proteomics study that identified NPM1 as a member of the MAP3K1 network.
PXD062924	40365354	Metabolomic and proteomic analyses of renal function after liver transplantation. 	Metabolomic and Proteomic Analysis of Renal Function After Liver Transplantation	Liver transplantation, Renal dysfunction, metabolomics	Background: Renal dysfunction is a common and serious complication in patients with end-stage liver diseases. While some patients recover renal function after liver transplantation (LT), others do not. Additionally, patients with normal kidney function (Normal-KF) before LT may develop post-transplant renal dysfunction. Early identification of patients at risk for impaired kidney function (Impaired-KF) post-LT is critical to improving outcomes. This study integrated metabolomic and proteomic analyses to investigate molecular profiles distinguishing Normal-KF from Impaired-KF post-LT. Methods: Nine LT recipients were classified into Normal-KF (n = 5) and Impaired-KF (n = 4) groups. One additional recipient with pre-transplant renal function impairment who recovered renal function after LT, was analyzed separately. Serum samples were collected at 2- and 5-weeks post-LT. The metabolomic and proteomic profiles were assessed by untargeted liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Results: Metabolomic analysis identified 29 significantly altered metabolites between Normal-KF and Impaired-KF (fold change > 2, p < 0.05). Proteomic analysis revealed 45 differentially expressed proteins (fold change > 1.25, p < 0.05). For the recovered patient, the metabolomic profile closely resembled Normal-KF, whereas the proteomic profile remained aligned with Impaired-KF at both 14- and 35-days post-LT. From week 2 to week 5, both the metabolomic and proteomic profiles of the recovered patient showed trends toward the Normal-KF. Conclusion: This study revealed distinct metabolomic and proteomic signatures associated with renal dysfunction post-LT. Proteomic profiles indicated a delayed recovery compared to metabolomic profiles, suggesting a dynamic and muti-layered renal recovery process. Further research is warranted to elucidate the functional implications of the differential proteins and metabolites for improved monitoring and therapeutic strategies.
PXD051970	40366233	A Holistic Investigation of Arabidopsis Proteomes Altered in Chloroplast Biogenesis and Retrograde Signalling Identifies PsbO as a Key Regulator of Chloroplast Quality Control. 	A systems biology-oriented investigation of Arabidopsis retrograde-signaling-defective mutant gun1 reveals the co-expression-based HUBs at the center of plastid development and homeostasis	GUN1, Hub, Lincomycin, PsbO	Communication between the diverse compartments of plant cells relies on an intricate network of molecular interactions that orchestrate organellar development and adaptation to environmental conditions. Plastid-to-nucleus signalling pathways play a key role in relaying information from developing, mature, and damaged or disintegrating chloroplasts to the nucleus, which serves to coordinate gene expression between the two genomes. To shed light on these mechanisms, we performed a comprehensive analysis of the response of the Arabidopsis thaliana proteomes to perturbation of chloroplast biogenesis by the antibiotic lincomycin (Lin) in the absence of GENOMES UNCOUPLED 1 (GUN1), a key player in plastid-to-nucleus signalling. The topological analysis of protein-protein interactions (PPIs) and co-expression networks enabled the identification of protein hubs in each genotype and condition tested, and highlighted whole-cell adaptive responses to the disruption of chloroplast biogenesis. Our findings reveal a novel role for PsbO, a subunit of the oxygen-evolving complex (OEC), which behaves as an atypical photosynthetic protein upon inhibition of plastid protein synthesis. Notably, and unlike all other subunits of the thylakoid electron transport chain, PsbO accumulates in non-photosynthetic plastids, and is crucial for the breakdown of damaged chloroplasts.
PXD058171	40366920	Generalized gingivitis-related salivary proteomic profile in pregnant women with obesity: insights into biological mechanisms assessed by Tandem Mass Spectrometry. 	Salivary proteomic profile related to excessive gingival bleeding in pregnant women with obesity: insights into biological mechanisms assessed by Tandem Mass Spectrometry	Gingivitis, Obesity, Pregnancy, Saliva	AIM: This cross-sectional study investigated the salivary proteomic profile associated with generalized gingivitis in pregnant women with obesity. METHODOLOGY: Pregnant women in the third trimester (>=27 weeks of gestation) were divided into two groups based on bleeding on probing (BOP): G1 (BOP>50%; n=9) and G2 (BOP 0-30%; n=9). Collected unstimulated saliva samples were individually analyzed using nano liquid chromatography electron spray ionization tandem mass spectrometry. Identified proteins were classified according to gene ontology for biological processes, molecular functions, immune system involvement, and cellular components. Differential protein expression was determined using thresholds of p<0.05 for downregulation and 1-p>0.95 for up-regulation proteins. RESULTS: Of the 183 identified proteins, 100 were shared between groups, totaling 57 up-regulated and 27 downregulated proteins in G1. Key biological processes included antimicrobial humoral response and hydrogen peroxide catabolism, with proteins linked to immune function and endopeptidase regulation. Functional analysis showed that Lactotransferrin (5-fold increase in G1), Haptoglobin (4-fold), and Immunoglobulin J chain (3-fold) were up-regulated, whereas Statherin (5-fold) and Protein S100-A8 (4-fold) were downregulated in G1. CONCLUSIONS: Pregnant women with obesity and generalized gingivitis exhibited a distinct salivary proteomic profile characterized by the up-regulation of immune-related proteins and downregulation of tissue-protective proteins. These findings suggest potential salivary biomarkers for detection and targeted management of periodontal inflammation in this high-risk population.
PXD055349	40368140	Chronic alcohol consumption reprograms hepatic metabolism through organelle-specific acetylation in mice. 	Chronic alcohol consumption reprograms hepatic metabolism through organelle-specific acetylation in mice.	Alcohol, acetylation, liver	Post-translational acetylation of proteins by acetyl-CoA is a crucial regulator of proteostasis and substrate metabolism. Ethanol metabolism in the liver induces protein accumulation, acetylation and metabolic disruption. While acetylation impacts enzyme activity and stability, its role in ethanol-related protein accumulation and metabolic dysfunction remains unclear. Using stable isotope-based proteomics, acetylomics, and metabolic profiling in a mouse model of chronic ethanol-induced liver injury, we demonstrate that ethanol induces hepatic steatosis, inflammation, oxidative stress, and proteinopathy linked to altered protein turnover. Ethanol increased the cytosolic protein turnover related to oxidative stress and detoxification, while reducing turnover of mitochondrial metabolic enzymes. It also elevated the acetylation of mitochondrial enzymes and nuclear histones with minimal cytosolic changes, impairing mitochondrial protein degradation. These changes were associated with altered levels of acyl-CoAs and acyl-carnitines, amino acids, and tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle intermediates, reflecting impaired fatty acid oxidation, nitrogen disposal and TCA cycle activities. These results suggest that ethanol-induced acetylation contributes to liver injury and that targeting acetylation may offer treatment for alcohol-induced liver diseases.
PXD059268	40368161	Tetraspanin7 in Adipose Tissue Remodeling and Its Impact on Metabolic Health. 	The role of Tetraspanin7 in Adipose Tissue Remodeling	Adipocyte, Body Weight Regulation, Metabolic Heath, Tetraspanin7	OBJECTIVES: We previously identified tetraspanin 7 (Tspan7) as a candidate gene influencing body weight in an obesity-related gene screening study. However, the mechanisms underlying its involvement in body weight regulation remained unclear. This study aims to investigate the role of TSPAN7 from a metabolic perspective. METHODS: We utilized genetically modified mice, including adipose tissue-specific Tspan7-knockout and Tspan7-overexpressing models, as well as human adipose-derived stem cells with TSPAN7 knockdown and overexpression. Morphological, molecular, and omics analyses, including proteomics and transcriptomics, were performed to investigate TSPAN7 function. Physiological effects were assessed by measuring blood markers associated with lipid regulation under metabolic challenges, such as high-fat feeding and aging. RESULTS: We show that TSPAN7 is involved in regulating lipid droplet formation and stabilization. Tspan7-knockout mice exhibited an increased proportion of small-sized adipocytes and a reduced visceral-to-subcutaneous fat ratio. This shift in fat distribution was associated with improved insulin sensitivity and altered branched-chain amino acid metabolism, as evidenced by increased expression of the branched-chain alpha-keto acid dehydrogenase complex subunit B in Tspan7-modified mice. Mechanistically, TSPAN7 deficiency promoted subcutaneous fat expansion, alleviating metabolic stress on visceral fat, a major contributor to insulin resistance. CONCLUSIONS: TSPAN7 influences lipid metabolism by modulating adipose tissue remodeling, particularly under metabolic challenges, such as high-fat diet exposure and aging. Its modulation enhances subcutaneous fat storage capacity while mitigating visceral fat accumulation, leading to improved insulin sensitivity. These findings position TSPAN7 as a potential target for therapeutic interventions aimed at improving metabolic health and preventing obesity-related diseases.
PXD061151	40369156	Targeting transcription factors through an IMiD independent zinc finger domain. 	Targeting transcription factors through an IMiD independent zinc finger domain	HCC model, SALL4 degrader, SH6	Immunomodulatory imide drugs (IMiDs) degrade specific C2H2 zinc finger degrons in transcription factors, making them effective against certain cancers. SALL4, a cancer driver, contains seven C2H2 zinc fingers in three clusters, including an IMiD degron in zinc finger cluster one (ZFC1). Surprisingly, IMiDs do not inhibit the growth of SALL4-expressing cancer cells. To overcome this limit, we focused on a non-IMiD domain, SALL4 zinc finger cluster four (ZFC4). By combining ZFC4-DNA crystal structure and an in silico docking algorithm, in conjunction with cell viability assays, we screened several chemical libraries against a potentially druggable binding pocket, leading to the discovery of SH6, a compound that selectively targets SALL4-expressing cancer cells. Mechanistic studies revealed that SH6 degrades SALL4 protein through the CUL4A/CRBN pathway, while deletion of ZFC4 abolished this activity. Moreover, SH6 treatment led to a significant 87% tumor growth inhibition of SALL4+ patient-derived xenografts and demonstrated good bioavailability in pharmacokinetic studies. In summary, these studies represent a new approach for IMiD independent drug discovery targeting C2H2 transcription factors such as SALL4 in cancer.
PXD060591	40371351	Canagliflozin alleviates progestin resistance by suppressing RARbeta/CRABP2 signaling in THRB knockout endometrial cancer cells. 	Canagliflozin ameliorates progestin resistance by suppressing RARbeta/CRABP2 signaling in TRbeta knockout endometrial cancer cells	canagliflozin, endometrial cancer, medroxyprogesterone acetate, progestin resistance, retinoic acid receptor beta, thyroid hormone receptor beta	Introduction: Progestin resistance has emerged as a significant barrier to the conservative management of endometrial cancer (EC). The mechanisms underlying progestin resistance in endocrine therapy remain incompletely understood. Previous studies have suggested that silencing thyroid hormone receptor B (THRB) is associated with progestin resistance in EC cells. Methods: THRB-knockout RL95-2 (THRB((-/-))/RL95-2) cells were constructed to investigate progestin resistance mechanisms. Cell proliferation and apoptosis were assessed in RL95-2 and THRB((-/-))/RL95-2 cells treated with canagliflozin (CANA), medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA), and their combination using CCK-8, EdU, and flow cytometry assays. In vivo, nude mouse xenograft models were used to evaluate the efficacy of CANA and MPA. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses were performed to identify pathways associated with progestin resistance. Molecular dynamics simulations, along with western blotting and immunohistochemistry were utilized to validate the targets of CANA. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays and dual luciferase reporter assays were employed to investigate the interactions between TRbeta, RARbeta, and CRABP2. Results: THRB((-/-))/RL95-2 cells were successfully constructed. CANA demonstrated a strong binding affinity for TRbeta. Both MPA and CANA suppressed proliferation in RL95-2 cells, but MPA was ineffective in THRB((-/-))/RL95-2 cells, indicating that THRB deficiency induced progestin resistance. CANA significantly inhibited proliferation and promoted apoptosis in THRB((-/-))/RL95-2 cells. In vivo, CANA, either alone or in combination with MPA, significantly reduced tumor growth in xenograft models derived from both wild-type and THRB-knockout RL95-2 cells. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed that progestin resistance in EC was linked to the retinoic acid signaling pathways. Western blotting confirmed that the expressions of RARbeta, RXRA and CRABP2 were significantly elevated in THRB((-/-))/RL95-2 cells. Treatment with CANA, alone or in combination with MPA, effectively reduced the expression of these proteins. Immunohistochemical analysis demonstrated that RARbeta expression was significantly increased in uterine tissues from patients with progestin-insensitive EC or endometrial atypical hyperplasia. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays and dual luciferase reporter assays demonstrated that TRbeta negatively modulated RARbeta expression by binding to its promoter, while RARbeta positively regulated CRABP2 expression. Conclusion: THRB knockout activated retinoic acid pathway, leading to progestin resistance. CANA targeted RARbeta and RXRA, downregulated CRABP2, restored BAX levels, and counteracted progestin resistance. The combination of CANA and MPA presented a novel strategy for alleviating progestin resistance and enhancing clinical efficacy.
PXD055009	40372282	Intrinsically Disordered Regions Define Unique Protein Interaction Networks in CHD Family Remodelers. 	Intrinsically Disordered Regions in Chromodomain Helicase DNA-binding (CHD) Proteins Shape Distinct Protein Interaction Networks	DNA helicase, aggregation prone regions, chromatin remodelers, intrinsically disordered regions, protein-protein interactions, transcription	Chromodomain helicase DNA-binding (CHD) enzymes play a pivotal role in genome regulation. They possess highly conserved ATPase domains flanked by poorly characterized and intrinsically disordered N- and C-termini. Using mass spectrometry, we identify dozens of novel protein-protein interactions (PPIs) within the N- and C-termini of human CHD family members. We also define a highly conserved aggregation-prone region (APR) within the C-terminus of CHD4 which is critical for its interaction with the nucleosome remodeling and deacetylase (NuRD), as well as ChAHP (CHD4, activity-dependent neuroprotective protein (ADNP), and HP1gamma) complexes. Further analysis reveals a regulatory role for the CHD4 APR in gene transcription during erythrocyte formation. Our results highlight that the N- and C-termini of CHD chromatin remodelers shape protein interaction networks that drive unique transcriptional programs.
PXD050868	40373039	De Novo Protein Synthesis Occurs Through the Cytoplasmic Translation Machinery in Mammalian Spermatozoa. 	De novo protein synthesis occurs through cytoplasmic translation machinery in mammalian spermatozoa	capacitation, protein translation, spermatozoa	The current hypothesis suggests that translation occurs in capacitated spermatozoa through mitochondrial ribosomes. Mitochondrial translation has several particularities, which rise some questions about how mitochondrial ribosomes can ensure sperm translation activity. Here, we aimed to elucidate if cytoplasmic translation occurs in mammalian spermatozoa. A bioinformatic workflow was performed to identify translation-related proteins in human spermatozoa and their association with cytoplasmic translation. The surface sensing of translation (SUnSET) method was used to measure translation activity in capacitated human and bovine spermatozoa. Two translation inhibitors, cycloheximide (CHX, cytoplasmic) and D-chloramphenicol (D-CP, mitochondrial) were used to identify which ribosomes were active in sperm. To spot newly synthesized proteins, puromycin-peptides were immunoprecipitated and analysed by mass spectrometry. A second approach was performed using translation inhibitors and analysing the sperm proteome by mass spectrometry. Bioinformatic analysis revealed that human spermatozoa possess 510 translation proteins, which were enriched for cytoplasmic mRNA translation. CHX decreased translation activity in mammalian sperm, whereas no effect was observed after D-CP treatment. Nine proteins were immunoprecipitated and identified as newly synthesized in capacitated bovine spermatozoa. CHX and D-CP decreased the level of 22 proteins that were replaced, or de novo translated during capacitation. New proteins were associated with relevant processes for sperm physiology. Both translation inhibitors decreased sperm rapid progressive motility and increased sperm immotility. Our results proved sperm translation occurs through cytoplasmic translation machinery in capacitated bovine and human spermatozoa. These results also support that sperm translation is required during capacitation to produce relevant proteins for sperm functions.
PXD041506	40373051	LIPID DROPLET PROTEIN OF SEEDS is involved in the control of lipid droplet size in Arabidopsis seeds and seedlings. 	LIPID DROPLET PROTEIN OF SEEDS (LDPS) influences lipid droplet size and number in seeds and seedlings	lipid droplets, seeds	In oilseeds, energy-rich carbon is stored as triacylglycerols in organelles called lipid droplets (LDs). While several of the major biogenetic proteins involved in LD formation have been identified, the full repertoire of LD proteins and their functional roles remains incomplete. Here, we show that the low-abundance, seed-specific LD protein LIPID DROPLET PROTEIN OF SEEDS (LDPS) contains an amphipathic alpha-helix and proline hairpin motif that serves as an LD-targeting signal and a separate region that binds to the LD protein OLEOSIN 1 (OLEO1). Loss of LDPS function results in smaller LDs and less seed oil in comparison to wild type, while over-expression of LDPS results in an increase in LD size and seed oil content. Loss of LDPS function also results in an inability of LDs to undergo fusion during post-germinative seedling growth. Analysis of oleo1 and ldps single and double mutant seeds and freeze-thaw treatment of seeds revealed that OLEO1 suppresses the ability of LDPS to promote larger LDs. Collectively, our results identify LDPS as an important player in LD biology that functions together with OLEO1 to determine LD size in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seeds and seedlings through a process that involves LD-LD fusion.
PXD062187	40374607	PRMT3 reverses HIV-1 latency by increasing chromatin accessibility to form a TEAD4-P-TEFb-containing transcriptional hub. 	PRMT3 reverses HIV-1 latency by increasing chromatin accessibility to form a TEAD4-P-TEFb-containing transcriptional hub	HIV-1 transcription, PRMT3	Latent HIV-1 presents a formidable challenge for viral eradication. HIV-1 transcription and latency reversal require interactions between the viral promoter and host proteins. Here, we perform the dCas9-targeted locus-specific protein analysis and discover the interaction of human arginine methyltransferase 3 (PRMT3) with the HIV-1 promoter. This interaction reverses latency in cell line models and primary cells from latently infected persons by increasing the levels of H4R3Me2a and transcription factor P-TEFb at the viral promoter. PRMT3 is found to promote chromatin accessibility and transcription of HIV-1 and a small subset of host genes in regions harboring the classical recognition motif for another transcription factor TEAD4. This motif attracts TEAD4 and PRMT3 to the viral promoter to synergistically activate transcription. Physical interactions among PRMT3, P-TEFb, and TEAD4 exist, which may help form a transcriptional hub at the viral promoter. Our study reveals the potential of targeting these hub proteins to eradicate latent HIV-1.
PXD060033	40374608	Sex-specific perturbations of neuronal development caused by mutations in the autism risk gene DDX3X. 	Sex specific pertubations of neuronal development caused by mutations in the autism risk gene DDX3X	DDX3X, autism, dendritic spines, mRNA translation, motor behavior, neuronal development, nucleolus, ribosome biogenesis, sex differences	DDX3X is an X-linked RNA helicase that escapes X chromosome inactivation and is expressed at higher levels in female brains. Mutations in DDX3X are associated with intellectual disability (ID) and autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and are predominantly identified in females (DDX3X syndrome). Using cellular and mouse models, we show that Ddx3x mediates sexual dimorphisms in brain development at a molecular, cellular, and behavioral level. During cortical neuronal development, Ddx3x sustains a female-biased signature of enhanced ribosomal biogenesis and mRNA metabolism. Compared to male neurons, female neurons display larger nucleoli, higher expression of a set of ribosomal proteins, and a higher cytoplasm-to-nucleus ratio of ribosomal RNA. All these sex dimorphisms are obliterated by Ddx3x loss. Ddx3x regulates dendritic arborization complexity in a sex- and dose-dependent manner in both female and male neurons. Ddx3x modulates the development of dendritic spines but only in female neurons. Further, ablating Ddx3x conditionally in forebrain neurons is sufficient to yield sex-specific changes in developmental outcomes and motor function. Together, these findings pose Ddx3x as a mediator of sexual differentiation during neurodevelopment and open new avenues to understand sex differences in health and disease.
PXD057101	40374617	Tumor-derived exosomal CCT6A serves as a matchmaker introducing chemokines to tumor-associated macrophages in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma. 	Tumor-Derived Exosomal CCT6A Serves as a Matchmaker Introducing Chemokines to Tumor-Associated Macrophages in Pancreatic Ductal Adenocarcinoma	Knockdown of CCT6A, LC-MS, PDAC cell line	M2-polarized tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) are a key factor contributing to the poor prognosis of pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC). While various factors within the tumor microenvironment (TME) drive their formation, the role of PDAC-derived exosomes in this process remains unclear. We aim to clarify the regulatory impacts of tumor-derived exosomes to TAMs. After the intratumoral injection to subcutaneous tumor of C57BL/6 mice, we demonstrated PDAC-derived exosomes exacerbate PDAC progression, accompanied with upregulated M2 phenotype of TAMs and unaffected proliferation signatures. Through intratumoral injection model and multi-Omics analyses, we identified CCT6A as a novel tumor-derived exosomal protein, bridging TAMs M2 polarization and PDAC prognosis. Co-culture with exosomes derived from CCT6A(high) PDAC leads to greater M2 phenotype of TAMs via PI3K-AKT signaling. According to proteomics data, chemokines' abundance reduces over tenfold once exosomal CCT6A absence, including CXCL1, CXCL3, CCL20 and CCL5, whose interaction with CCT6A in PDAC cells was confirmed by interactomics data. Moreover, we found silencing CCT6A abrogated the antagonism effects of CD47 antibody immunotherapy. Our findings implied that the subunit of the T-complex protein Ring Complex (TRiC) CCT6A serves as a matchmaker during exosome-mediated chemokines transfer from PDAC to TAMs. Silencing CCT6A effectively sensitized PDAC to CD47 antibody immunotherapy in vivo.
PXD055328	40374622	TIGIT deficiency promotes autoreactive CD4(+) T-cell responses through a metabolic-epigenetic mechanism in autoimmune myositis. 	GC/MS data for mouse spleen CD4+ T cells	GC/MS	Polymyositis (PM) is a systemic autoimmune disease characterized by muscular inflammatory infiltrates and degeneration. T-cell immunoreceptor with Ig and ITIM domains (TIGIT) contributes to immune tolerance by inhibiting T cell-mediated autoimmunity. Here, we show that a reduced expression of TIGIT in CD4(+) T cells from patients with PM promotes these cells' differentiation into Th1 and Th17 cells, which could be rescued by TIGIT overexpression. Knockout of TIGIT enhances muscle inflammation in a mouse model of experimental autoimmune myositis. Mechanistically, we find that TIGIT deficiency enhances CD28-mediated PI3K/AKT/mTOR co-stimulatory pathway, which promotes glucose oxidation, citrate production, and increased cytosolic acetyl-CoA levels, ultimately inducing epigenetic reprogramming via histone acetylation. Importantly, pharmacological inhibition of histone acetylation suppresses the differentiation of Th1 and Th17 cells, alleviating muscle inflammation. Thus, our findings reveal a mechanism by which TIGIT directly affects the differentiation of Th1 and Th17 T cells through metabolic-epigenetic reprogramming, with important implications for treating systemic autoimmune diseases.
PXD063682	40374748	DNAJC5 facilitates the proliferation and migration of lung adenocarcinoma cells by augmenting EGFR trafficking. 	DNAJC5 facilitates the proliferation and migration of lung adenocarcinoma cells by augmenting EGFR trafficking	AP2A1, DNAJC5, EGFR, LUAD, endocytosis	Lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) is a highly prevalent and lethal malignant tumor, with the aberrantly activated EGFR signaling pathway playing a crucial role in its development. However, resistance to tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKIs) targeting EGFR significantly limits the efficacy of LUAD clinical therapy. Therefore, it is imperative to identify novel therapeutic targets and elucidate the regulatory mechanisms of EGFR for improving LUAD treatment outcomes. In this study, we discover that DNAJC5 functions as an oncogene in LUAD. We observe elevated protein levels of DNAJC5 in tissues from LUAD patients, which are strongly associated with poor prognosis among these individuals. Furthermore, overexpression of DNAJC5 promotes proliferation and migration of LUAD cells both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistic investigations reveal that DNAJC5 interacts with the intracellular domain of EGFR and enhances its endocytosis and recycle, thereby augmenting EGFR activity and downstream signaling pathways. Additionally, we find that DNAJC5 binds to AP2A1 protein-a key player in EGFR endocytosis-and strengthens its interaction with EGFR. Knockdown experiments targeting AP2A1 attenuate the ability of DNAJC5 to promote proliferation and migration of LUAD cells. Collectively, our findings unveil a functional role for DNAJC5 in regulating EGFR trafficking and driving LUAD progression.
PXD055757	40375315	Longitudinal proteomic analysis of pathophysiology in plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of patients with ARDS. 	Pathophysiological changes in plasma and BALF of patients with ARDS based on proteomics	Plasma BALF ARDS	BACKGROUND: Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) remains a significant clinical challenge, and its pathogenesis is not fully understood. Proteomic analyses of plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) in patients with ARDS have been performed to uncover diagnostic and prognostic markers, although previous studies have not adequately focused on longitudinal comparison of biomarkers. This study aimed to elucidate the proteomic profiles of patients with ARDS in the acute and subacute phases to better understand the pathophysiological progression of ARDS. METHODS: This was a single-center, prospective, observational study of adult patients with ARDS in whom plasma and BALF samples were collected in the acute and subacute phases of ARDS and comprehensive proteins were identified and analyzed by mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Plasma and BALF were collected from 21 ARDS patients and plasma from 24 healthy donors, from which 694 plasma proteins and 2017 BALF proteins were analyzed. Processes related to coagulation and complement commonly activated in plasma and BALF were more pronounced in the acute phase than in the subacute phase. In BALF in the acute phase, pathways related to humoral and immune responses were activated, whereas processes related to chaperones and protein folding were suppressed. IPA analysis showed that B cell receptor signaling was most activated, whereas heat shock protein 90 (HSP90) chaperone cycle, protein folding, and other pathways associated with cellular stress responses and proper protein processing were suppressed. The most activated upstream regulator was interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) and the most suppressed was notch receptor 1 (NOTCH1). CONCLUSIONS: The proteomics of plasma and BALF from patients with ARDS were compared in both the acute and subacute phases. In BALF in the acute phase, humoral immunity, mainly B-cell receptor signaling, was activated, whereas the HSP90 cycle and protein folding mechanisms were inactivated.
PXD057890	40375456	Redefined complement C3c structures have significant increase in the plasma of ovarian cancer patients. 	Redefined complement C3c structures have significant increase in the plasma of ovarian cancer patients	biomarker discovery, complement component C3, ovarian cancer, plasam proteolysis	BACKGROUND: Ovarian cancer (OC) is the third among the most common gynecological cancers. Effective biomarkers are required for OC as in the case of other cancers. Therefore, here we explored whether plasma proteolytic products could serve as potential biomarkers. METHODS: We devised a platform that incorporates CyDye labeling, macroporous reversed-phase liquid chromatography, reducing/non-reducing SDS-PAGE, and fluorescence imaging. Paired preoperative and postoperative plasma samples from four patients were used to screen for possible proteolytic changes. For identified difference proteins, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry was used to analyze the protein digests using various proteases. Plasma samples from 33 healthy controls and 85 patients with OC were examined using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. RESULTS: Our analyses revealed that the circulating complement C3 derivative was present only in the diseased state. This 145-kDa species, under non-reducing conditions, could split into 72-, 39-, and 29-kDa fragments upon reduction, reminiscent of the C3c structure. While confirming the C3c identity, mass spectrometric analyses showed multiple C-terminal ends in the C3c alpha'1 fragment, which were utilized differently among patients with OC. Various ends were also observed in serum samples prepared using different complement activators, thus redefining C3c as a mixture of multiple molecular entities. ELISA assay targeting only canonical C3c demonstrated a strong correlation between increased plasma levels and the occurrence and progression of OC. CONCLUSION: Our findings suggest that plasma proteolysis during complement deactivation is explicitly involved in ovarian tumorigenesis and the associated protein changes may aid in developing next-generation cancer biomarkers.
PXD056715	40376465	A novel lncRNA YIL163C enhances genomic stability and antifungal resistance via the DNA damage response in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 	Protein response of lncRNA-DRC to HU treatment	HU, lncRNA-DRC	Introduction: Long non-coding RNAs (lncRNAs) are increasingly recognized as key regulators in cellular processes, including the DNA damage response (DDR). In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, DDR is critical for maintaining genomic integrity under stress, mediated by proteins like Mec1 and Rad53. However, the involvement of lncRNAs in DDR pathways, remains largely unexplored. This study investigates the function of a novel lncRNA, YIL163C, in promoting cell survival and genomic stability under DNA damage conditions. Methods: Genetic suppressor screening was employed to assess the role of YIL163C in rescuing lethality in mec1Delta sml1Delta and rad53Delta sml1Delta exposed to DNA damage. Proteomic and phosphoproteomic analyses were conducted to evaluate changes in protein abundance and phosphorylation states. The impact of YIL163C on DDR and antifungal drug tolerance, specifically to 5-fluorocytosine, was also examined. Results: Overexpression of YIL163C was found to rescue lethality in mec1Delta sml1Delta and rad53Delta sml1Delta under DNA damage conditions. Proteomic analyses revealed that YIL163C modulates pathways related to DNA replication, ER stress response, and ribosome biogenesis, enhancing cellular resilience to HU-induced stress. Additionally, YIL163C reduced sensitivity to 5-fluorocytosine, indicating a role in antifungal drug tolerance. Phosphoproteomic data suggested YIL163C influences phosphorylation states, potentially acting downstream of the Mec1-Rad53 signaling pathway. Conclusion: This study provides new insights into the regulatory mechanisms of lncRNAs in DDR, with broader implications for antifungal therapy and genomic stability research, emphasizing the role of lncRNAs in stress responses beyond traditional protein-centric mechanisms.
PXD052448	40376681	The immunopeptidomic landscape of ependymomas provides actionable antigens for T-cell-based immunotherapy. 	The Immunopeptidomic Landscape of Ependymomas provide actionable antigens for T cell-based immunotherapy	HLA ligands, Neuroepithelial tumor, cancer vaccination, immunotherapy, peptide vaccine	Background: Ependymoma are primary tumors of the nervous system. Due to their growth pattern, many ependymomas can be managed with neurosurgical resection alone. A substantial proportion of these tumors recurs or displays infiltrative growth patterns. Further established therapeutic options include radiation therapy. Systemic treatment options include platinum-based therapeutic regimes or a combination of lapatinib and temozolomide. Peptide-based immunotherapy represents a promising therapeutic strategy relying on the induction of tumor-specific T cells targeting human leukocyte antigens (HLA)-presented peptides. Our work aimed to analyze the landscape of naturally presented HLA class I and II ligands of primary ependymomas (EPN) to delineate EPN-associated antigens. Methods: We investigated 22 EPN tissue samples using a comparative mass spectrometry-based immunopeptidomic approach. Additionally, EPN-specific antigens were functionally characterized in T-cell-based immunogenicity assays. Results: We discovered a subset of EPN-exclusive peptides including HLA-A*02 and HLA-A*25/HLA-A*26-restricted HLA ligands and identified a small panel of cancer/testis antigens (CTAs)-derived HLA ligands. Furthermore, we outlined immunopeptidomic alterations in different ependymoma subgroups and progressive ependymoma. Subsequently, we performed functional characterization of the previously identified HLA-A*02:01 restricted peptide FLDS to demonstrate immunogenicity in vitro. Conclusion: The immunopeptidome landscape of EPNs provides actionable targets that could further be explored as a T cell-based immunotherapeutic strategy in this tumor entity.
PXD047400	40377206	Insufficiency of 40S ribosomal proteins, RPS26 and RPS25, negatively affects biosynthesis of polyglycine-containing proteins in fragile-X associated conditions. 	Mass-spectrometry based screening revealing proteins bound to FMR1 mRNA	FMR1, HEK, RNA binding proteins, RPS26, mRNA	Expansion of CGG repeats (CGGexp) in the 5' untranslated region (5'UTR) of the FMR1 gene underlies the fragile X premutation-associated conditions including tremor/ataxia syndrome, a late-onset neurodegenerative disease and fragile X-associated primary ovarian insufficiency. One common pathomechanism of these conditions is the repeat-associated non-AUG-initiated (RAN) translation of CGG repeats of mutant FMR1 mRNA, resulting in production of FMRpolyG, a toxic protein containing long polyglycine tract. To identify novel modifiers of RAN translation we used an RNA-tagging system and mass spectrometry-based screening. It revealed proteins enriched on CGGexp-containing FMR1 RNA in cellulo, including a ribosomal protein RPS26, a component of the 40 S subunit. We demonstrated that depletion of RPS26 and its chaperone TSR2, modulates FMRpolyG production and its toxicity. We also found that the RPS26 insufficiency impacted translation of limited number of proteins, and 5'UTRs of mRNAs encoding these proteins were short and guanosine and cytosine-rich. Moreover, the silencing of another component of the 40 S subunit, the ribosomal protein RPS25, also induced repression of FMRpolyG biosynthesis. Results of this study suggest that the two 40 S ribosomal proteins and chaperone TSR2 play an important role in noncanonical CGGexp-related RAN translation.
PXD034195	40381216	Independently evolved extracellular electron transfer pathways in ecologically diverse Desulfobacterota. 	Proteome analysis of Desulfuromonas acetexigens	Desulfuromonas acetexigens strain 2873, extracellular electron transfer (EET)	Extracellular electron transfer plays a role in the biogeochemical cycling of carbon, metals, sulfur, and nitrogen, and has wide-ranging biotechnological applications. The metal-reducing (Mtr), outer-membrane cytochrome (Omc), and porin-cytochrome (Pcc) pathways facilitate electron transfer to insoluble electron acceptors via trans-outer membrane cytochrome complexes. Although these pathways perform a similar function, they are phylogenetically unrelated, indicating independent evolutionary origins. Here, we report an extracellular electron transfer mechanism in which the high-current producing bacterium Desulfuromonas acetexigens differentially co-expresses, at transcript and protein levels, the porin-cytochrome, outer-membrane cytochrome, and metal-reducing pathways, along with high-molecular-weight cytochromes containing a large number of hemes (up to 86 heme-binding motifs), under extracellular electron transfer growth conditions (i.e., electrode under set potential or naturally occurring iron oxide minerals as the electron acceptor). Additionally, we identified over 40 Desulfobacterota species from diverse ecological environments that encode the outer-membrane cytochrome and metal-reducing pathways, with the majority also expressing the porin-cytochrome pathway. The newly identified metal-reducing proteins in Desulfobacterota form a major lineage, greatly expanding the known diversity of these proteins. To our knowledge, mtrCAB genes have not been reported in the Desulfobacterota phylum (formerly classified as Deltaproteobacteria), nor has any electroactive organism been shown to express these phylogenetically distant pathways simultaneously. These findings have ecological implications, challenging the belief that certain extracellular electron transfer pathways are exclusive to specific taxa, and suggesting that these pathways are more widespread than previously thought. Additionally, this reveals a previously unrecognized versatility in microbial electron transfer mechanisms that can be exploited in biotechnological applications.
PXD055313	40381373	Saturated fat exacerbates mitochondrial dysfunction through remodelling of ATP production and inflammation in Barrett's oesophagus compared to monounsaturated fat, particularly in contrast to oesophageal adenocarcinoma. 	Saturated fat exacerbates mitochondrial dysfunction through remodelling of ATP production and inflammation in Barrett's oesophagus compared to monounsaturated fat, particularly in contrast to oesophageal adenocarcinoma	Barrett's oesophagus, cancer, diet, inflammation, metabolism, monounsaturated fatty acids, obesity, oesophageal adenocarcinoma, saturated fatty acids	Obesity-related oesophageal adenocarcinoma (OAC), arising from Barrett's oesophagus (BO), incidence rates are rising coincident with high-fat diets. However, adipose tissue phenotype drives metabolic characteristics. Prior feeding studies demonstrated that obesogenic diets enriched in saturated fatty acids (SFA) induce a more adverse metabolic and pro-inflammatory adipose phenotype, compared to monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFA) enriched high-fat diets, despite equal obesity. We hypothesise that different fatty acids may alter the progression of BO to OAC, wherein SFA may be more pathogenic compared to MUFA. Proteomic analysis shows that SFA, not MUFA, increases fatty acid metabolism, oncogenic signalling, and mitochondrial respiratory chain to a greater extent in BO but not in OAC cells. Cellular metabolic analysis validated proteomic findings to show mitochondrial dysfunction in BO but showed an increase in glycolysis in OAC following SFA treatment compared to MUFA. Additionally, it showed a decrease in mitochondrial ATP production following treatment of SFA in BO and OAC cells. Reduction of SFA intake may be beneficial as a supplementary treatment approach to manage and/or prevent OAC progression.
PXD041633	40381624	Repeat-element RNAs integrate a neuronal growth circuit. 	Analysis of the interactome of B2-SINE RNA transcripts	B2-SINE RNAs, RNA regulators, RNA-Protein interactions	Neuronal growth and regeneration are regulated by local translation of mRNAs in axons. We examined RNA polyadenylation changes upon sensory neuron injury and found upregulation of a subset of polyadenylated B2-SINE repeat elements, hereby termed GI-SINEs (growth-inducing B2-SINEs). GI-SINEs are induced from ATF3 and other AP-1 promoter-associated extragenic loci in injured sensory neurons but are not upregulated in lesioned retinal ganglion neurons. Exogenous GI-SINE expression elicited axonal growth in injured sensory, retinal, and corticospinal tract neurons. GI-SINEs interact with ribosomal proteins and nucleolin, an axon-growth-regulating RNA-binding protein, to regulate translation in neuronal cytoplasm. Finally, antisense oligos against GI-SINEs perturb sensory neuron outgrowth and nucleolin-ribosome interactions. Thus, a specific subfamily of transposable elements is integral to a physiological circuit linking AP-1 transcription with localized RNA translation.
PXD063155	40384785	A metaproteomic analysis of the piglet fecal microbiome across the weaning transition. 	Pig Feces Metaproteome, LC-MSMS, TMT12Plex	TMT, metaproteome, pig	Microbiome analysis has relied largely on metagenomics to characterize microbial populations and predict their functions. Here, we used a metaproteomic analysis of the fecal microbiome in piglets before and after weaning to compare protein abundances as they pertain to microbial populations specific to either a milk- or plant-based diet. Fecal samples were collected from six piglets on the day of weaning and 4 weeks after transitioning to a standard nursery diet. Using the 12,554 protein groups identified in samples, we confirmed the shift in protein composition that takes place in response to the microbial succession following weaning and demonstrated the redundancy in metabolic processes between taxa. We identified taxa with roles as primary degraders based on corresponding proteins synthesized, thereby providing evidence for cross-feeding. Proteins associated with the breakdown of milk-specific carbohydrates were common among pre-weaned pigs, whereas the proteome of post-weaned piglets contained a greater abundance of proteins involved in the breaking down plant-specific carbohydrates. Furthermore, output revealed that production of propionate takes place via the propionaldehyde pathway in pre-weaned piglets, but changes to production via the succinate pathway in post-weaned piglets. Finally, a disproportionate quantity of carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) (~8%) were produced by fungi, which typically only represent ~0.1% of the microbiome taxa. Information gathered through this characterization of the metaproteome before and after weaning revealed important differences regarding the role of members in the microbial community, thereby providing information for the optimization of diets and products for both piglet and microbiome health.
PXD041410	40385697	Quantification of glucagon and oxyntomodulin by protein precipitation-immunoaffinity enrichment-LC-MS/MS. 	Evaluation of Linearity, Lower Limit of Measurement Interval and Imprecision	glucagon, oxyntomodulin, primary calibrator, single point calibration	Introduction: Glucagon and oxyntomodulin are peptide hormones differentially released from proglucagon that function in regulating blood glucose. Their overlapping amino acid sequences make the development of specific immunoassays difficult, but the specificity of liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry can be used to distinguish the peptides. We aimed to develop a sensitive and specific mass spectrometric assay that uses non-proprietary reagents and normal-flow liquid chromatography in the simultaneous quantification of both analytes. Methods: Bulk plasma proteins were precipitated in ethanol/ammonium hydroxide. Analytes were enriched using monoclonal antibodies generated in-house and analyzed using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. A glucagon calibration material was sourced commercially and characterized for purity and concentration by high-performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet detection and amino acid analysis. Single-point calibration was used to minimize between-day variability. Results: The novel antibodies performed acceptably (peptide recovery 45-59 %). The assay was precise (<13 %CV) and linear over the range of 1.3-14.7 pM and 1.1-13.7 pM for glucagon and oxyntomodulin, respectively. The glucagon calibration material concentration was determined to be 1.596 mg/g. Tube-type studies supported the use of protease inhibitor tubes at the time of blood draw. Patients with type 1 diabetes had lower concentrations of glucagon when maintained on an insulin pump, but not with injectable insulin. Conclusion: We have validated a method with a highly detailed standard operating procedure. We have characterized calibration materials to help maintain accuracy and achieve between-day and between-laboratory harmonization. The assay will be beneficial in better understanding alpha-cell health and glycemic control in diabetes and other diseases.
PXD068324	40386403	An Essential Adaptor for Apicoplast Fission and Inheritance in Malaria Parasites. 	Dyn2 IP mass spectrometry dataset	DatasetType:Proteomics, Dyn2, PfAnchor (Pf3D7_0613600), Plasmodium falciparum, maleria	Blood-stage Plasmodium falciparum parasites rely on a non-photosynthetic plastid, the apicoplast, for survival, making it an attractive target for antimalarial intervention. Like the mitochondrion, the apicoplast cannot be generated de novo and must be inherited by daughter parasites during cell division. This inheritance relies on coordinated apicoplast positioning and fission, but the molecular mechanisms controlling these processes remain poorly understood. Here, we identify a previously uncharacterized P. falciparum protein (Pf3D7_0613600), which we name PfAnchor, as a key regulator of apicoplast fission. Using Ultrastructure Expansion Microscopy (U-ExM), we show that PfAnchor localizes to the apicoplast throughout the asexual blood-stage. Conditional depletion disrupts apicoplast fission, leading to incomplete cytokinesis and parasite death. Notably, loss of the apicoplast's elongated branched structure via azithromycin treatment rescues these defects, underscoring Anchor's specific role in apicoplast fission. Immunoprecipitation identified an interaction with the dynamin-like GTPase PfDyn2, a key mediator of both apicoplast and mitochondrial fission, establishing PfAnchor as the first apicoplast-specific dynamin adaptor protein. Our findings define PfAnchor as an essential factor for apicoplast fission and inheritance in P. falciparum blood-stage parasites, highlighting parasite-specific organelle division as a potential vulnerability for therapeutic intervention.
PXD056844	40387319	Exploring protein N-glycosylation in ammonia-oxidizing Nitrososphaerota archaea through glycoproteomic analysis. 	Whole-cell proteome of Nitrososphaera viennensis strain JCM19564	archaea, whole-cell proteome	Ammonia-oxidizing archaea of the phylum Nitrososphaerota, formerly known as Thaumarchaeota, are globally distributed and play critical roles in the nitrogen and carbon cycles, particularly in environments with low ammonia concentrations. Like most archaea, Nitrososphaerota cells are enveloped by S-layer proteins, implicated in concentrating ammonium ions. These proteins are typically modified post-translationally by N-glycans, which often play significant roles in various biological processes, including protein function regulation, protection from phages, and environmental adaptation. Nevertheless, the glycobiological characteristics of Nitrososphaerota remain largely unexplored. Here, we investigated the glycoproteome of ammonia-oxidizing Nitrososphaerota, specifically focusing on the terrestrial Nitrososphaera viennensis and the marine Nitrosopumilus piranensis. Both species exhibited similar protein arrays throughout their growth phases, including those associated with N-glycosylation. Ns. viennensis consistently exhibited N-glycosylation predominantly on an S-layer protein and multicopper oxidase domain-containing proteins throughout all growth phases, with a marked increase during and after the late exponential phase. The glycan, characterized as a novel hexasaccharide with a chitobiose core, is hypothesized to play a role in nitrogen storage due to its probable nitrogen-rich composition, modifying asparagine residues within the conserved triplet sequence (Asn-X-Ser or -Thr). In contrast, Np. piranensis also showed a high abundance of S-layer protein but displayed no apparent N-glycosylation on any protein, suggesting variability in cell surface physical properties between these archaea. Despite similarities in their proteomes and energy metabolism, these two archaea exhibited significant differences in post-translational modification of proteins, revealing previously unrecognized diversity that may have implications for understanding their adaptive transitions to diverse environments. IMPORTANCE: Autotrophic ammonia-oxidizing archaea of the phylum Nitrososphaerota, formerly known as Thaumarchaeota, are notoriously difficult to culture yet play important roles in the global nitrogen and carbon cycles. Inhabiting environments with extremely low ammonia concentrations, these archaea are expected to conserve ammonia strictly for energy production. However, using advanced liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance techniques, we discovered that one of these archaea decorates its cell surface proteins with the most nitrogen-rich glycan identified to date, suggesting a previously unrecognized function of protein glycosylation in nitrogen storage. This newly identified N-glycan, with a chitobiose core similar to those in Thermoproteota and eukaryotes, not only deepens our understanding of archaeal evolution but also underscores the molecular adaptations enabling these archaea to thrive in diverse environments.
PXD061129	40388638	Multi-omic integration with human dorsal root ganglia proteomics highlights TNFalpha signalling as a relevant sexually dimorphic pathway. 	Bulk proteomics of naive human dorsal root ganglion	dia, dia-pasef, dorsal root ganglia, drg, sensory neurons	ABSTRACT: The peripheral nervous system (PNS) plays a critical role in pathological conditions, including chronic pain disorders, that manifest differently in men and women. To investigate this sexual dimorphism at the molecular level, we integrated quantitative proteomic profiling of human dorsal root ganglia (hDRG) and peripheral nerve tissue into the expanding omics framework of the PNS. Using data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry, we characterized a comprehensive proteomic profile, validating tissue-specific differences between the hDRG and peripheral nerve. Through multi-omic analyses and in vitro functional assays, we identified sex-specific molecular differences, with TNFalpha signalling emerging as a key sexually dimorphic pathway with higher prominence in men. Genetic evidence from genome-wide association studies further supports the functional relevance of TNFalpha signalling in the periphery, while clinical trial data and meta-analyses indicate a sex-dependent response to TNFalpha inhibitors. Collectively, these findings underscore a functionally sexual dimorphism in the PNS, with direct implications for sensory and pain-related clinical translation.
PXD043736	40389488	Abrogating the adenine methylation ability of Lacticaseibacillus paracasei improves its freeze-drying and storage resistance. 	Proteomic analysis of storage properties of Lacticaseibacillus paracasei Zhang starter culture by DNA methylation	Adenine methylation, Lacticaseibacillus paracasei, freeze-drying, pglX gene, starter culture, storage characteristic	Freeze-drying is a widely adopted method for the long-term storage of starter cultures in the food industry but can cause cell instability and a decline in post-storage viability. We used an unmethylated Lacticaseibacillus paracasei Zhang mutant lacking adenine-specific DNA-methyltransferase. This mutant was subjected to freeze-drying and stored at 30 degreesC for two distinct durations (30 and 60 days), Our analysis revealed the unmethylated mutant outperformed the wild-type in cell viability and survival following freeze-drying and post-freeze-drying storage. And significant metabolic pathway differences between the stored mutant and wild-type bacteria. These differences were evident in the phosphotransferase system, carbohydrate, and amino acid metabolism, and fatty acid biosynthesis, and were consistent across transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analyses. This is achieved by modulating key metabolic pathways within the bacteria. This study contributes to the limited literature on the role of bacterial adenine methylation in industrial strain application and starter culture storage.
PXD058095	40389644	Uncovering biomarkers for chronic toxoplasmosis detection highlights alternative pathways shaping parasite dormancy. 	Identification of immunogenic markers in Toxoplasma gondii bradyzoite proteins	Toxoplasma gondii, Toxoplasmosis, bradyzoite, nanoLC-MS/MS, serological marker	Toxoplasma gondii, a neurotropic protozoan, causes toxoplasmosis, a prevalent zoonotic and food-borne infection, posing significant risks to immunocompromised individuals and congenital cases. The chronic phase, characterized by dormant, cyst-forming bradyzoites, is central to disease progression but is poorly understood due to the lack of serological tests to detect bradyzoite-specific antigens. This study identifies the bradyzoite serological marker (BSM) and cyst-associated BCLA as effective biomarkers for chronic toxoplasmosis. These markers showed high sensitivity and specificity in detecting cyst-bearing mice and had a positivity rate of 30% in humans with prior immunity. Bradyzoite serology helps to discriminate between recent and past infections, with BCLA improving the accuracy of the diagnosis of congenital infections. Mechanistic analyses show that the chromatin modifiers MORC and HDAC3 epistatically regulate BFD1, a key bradyzoite regulator. While BFD1 controls the expression of bradyzoite genes such as BCLA, a specific subset, including BSM, is regulated independently of BFD1. This multilayered regulation complicates the understanding of parasite persistence in humans, but offers promise for improved serologic diagnosis during pregnancy, but also in individuals with mental illness.
PXD062468	40389844	Multi-omics analysis of the mechanisms of abundant theacrine and EGCG3"Me in tea (Camellia sinensis). 	Tea(Camellia sinensis), Fresh tea leaves, Spring tea shoot, Bruker tims TOF Pro2 Mass spectrometer,	ProteomeXchange project tag: Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP), Proteomic Analysis of the 3rd Leaf Position of Spring Shoots Using DIA	Theacrine and epigallocatechin-3-O-(3-O-methyl) gallate (EGCG3"Me) are notable secondary metabolites in tea (Camellia sinensis), celebrated for their unique flavors and significant health effects. Theacrine has a mild effect on nerve stimulation, while EGCG3"Me exhibits better stability, higher oral bioavailability and stronger biological activity. However, tea plant varieties naturally rich in both theacrine and EGCG3"Me are rare. This study unveils a unique tea variety 'Anxi kucha', which is abundant in both theacrine and EGCG3"Me. Through integrated transcriptome-proteome-metabolome analysis, SAMS3, APRT1, IMPDH, and TCS1 were identified as critical enzymes for theacrine synthesis; while CHI1, CHI2, FLS2 and LAR1 were key for EGCG3"Me synthesis. Additionally, transcription factor analysis revealed that MYB4 and bHLH74 were positively correlated with the contents of theacrine and EGCG3"Me. This study provides valuable materials for further exploring theacrine and EGCG3"Me in tea plants, and establishes a theoretical basis for their biosynthesis.
PXD062670	40394046	DNA nanoflower Oligo-PROTAC for targeted degradation of FUS to treat neurodegenerative diseases. 	Proteomic profiling of the global protein changes of Neuro-2a cells treated with siFUS or control	LC-MS, Mus musculus, siFUS	Oligonucleotide-based medicine faces challenges in efficiently crossing the blood-brain barrier and rapidly reducing toxic proteins. To address these challenges, here we establish an integrated modality, brain-penetrant DNA nanoflowers incorporated with oligonucleotide-based proteolysis targeting chimeras. Using FUS as a proof-of-concept, mutations of which cause frontotemporal dementia and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, we demonstrate that a FUS-engaging RNA oligonucleotide crosslinked to a ligand for Cereblon efficiently degrade FUS and its cytoplasmic disease-causing mutants through a ubiquitin-proteasomal pathway. The DNA nanoflower contains hundreds of oligonucleotide binding sites and transferrin receptor-engaging aptamers, allowing efficient loading of the oligonucleotide-based degrader and engaging transferrin receptors for brain delivery. A single dose intravenous injection of this modality reaches brain parenchyma within 2 h and degrades 80% FUS protein there, sustained for two weeks without noticeable toxicity. DNA nanoflower oligonucleotide-based degrader is a therapeutic strategy for neurodegenerative diseases that leverages the advantages of designer oligonucleotides and targeted protein degradation.
PXD058020	40394059	Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of the action mechanism of spermidine in mitigating the aging of Allium mongolicum seeds. 	Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of Allium mongolicum seeds	Allium mongolicum, PPI, energy metabolism, qPCR, transcriptomics	Seed aging or deterioration can affect germination rate, vigor, and viability. Allium mongolicum seeds stored for different years were used to obtain germination indicators, physiological indicators, and proteomic and transcriptomic sequencing in seeds treated with spermidine (Spd). The germination ability of A. mongolicum seeds increased and then decreased with the extension of storage life. The germination rate was only about 40% after 6 years. Relative conductivity, malondialdehyde (MDA), and hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) content first decreased and then increased, while catalase activity (CAT), peroxidase activity (POD), superoxide dismutase activity (SOD), Ascorbate peroxidase activity (APX), and respiratory rate first increased and then decreased. Spd increased the seed germination rate, CAT, POD, SOD, and APX activity. However, it significantly reduced MDA, H2O2 content, and relative conductivity. Differentially expressed proteins were concentrated in energy metabolism pathways. Ten proteins related to the aging of A. mongolicum seeds were identified. The gene expression trend was basically consistent with the proteomic assay results. Energy metabolism is a key pathway in the aging of A. mongolicum seeds. Regulating the expression of genes involved in energy metabolism pathway can effectively alleviate A. mongolicum seed aging. The results enriched the molecular mechanism of the seed storability of A. mongolicum, providing theoretical bases for molecular marker-assisted breeding of its storability traits.
PXD056168	40394416	Erk1(R84H) is an oncoprotein that causes hepatocellular carcinoma in mice and imposes a rigorous negative feedback loop. 	Erk1R84H is an oncoprotein that causes hepatocellular carcinoma in mice and imposes rigorous negative feedback loop on the RTK-Ras-Raf-MEK pathway	ERK, Kinase, MAPK, autoactivation, phosphoproteomics, phosphorylation	The receptor tyrosine kinase (RTK)-Ras-Raf-MEK-Erk cascade is frequently mutated in cancer, but it is not known whether Erk is a sole mediator of the pathway's oncogenicity, and what degree of Erk activity is required for oncogenicity. Also, it is assumed that high Erk activity is required to impose and maintain oncogenicity, but the exact degree of required activity is not clear. We report that induced expression of the intrinsically active variant Erk1(R84H) in mouse liver gave rise to hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Intriguingly, the phosphorylated/active form of Erk1(R84H) was dramatically downregulated during HCC development, and became almost undetectable in mature tumors. Similarly, in Erk1(R84H)-transformed NIH3T3 cells, the phosphorylated/active form of Erk1(R84H) was undetectable. Thus, 1) Erk1 could by itself cause HCC in mice, suggesting that it is the major or even the sole mediator of the cascade's oncogenicity. 2) Erk1(R84H)-induced tumors (and other tumors) are maintained by a minimal Erk activity. 3) Erk1(R84H) is probably the driver of the malignancy in patients that carry the R84H mutation.
PXD063166	40394574	FGA can be used as a promising therapeutic target in osteoarthritis. 	FGA can be used as a promising therapeutic target in osteoarthritis	FGA, osteoarthritis, promising therapeutic target	BACKGROUND: This study aims to identify critical signaling pathways and pathogenic genes involved in osteoarthritis (OA) to provide a foundation for identifying targeted therapeutic strategies. METHODS: Twenty-six patients who underwent knee joint surgery in the Department of Orthopedics between January and December 2023 were enrolled. Cartilage samples in the experimental group (OA group) were harvested from the articular surfaces of the knee joints of OA patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty (TKA). In contrast, control samples were obtained from non-load-bearing regions of irreparable cartilage fragments excised during surgical management of tibial plateau fractures. Proteomic profiling was conducted using label-free quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Subsequent bioinformatics analysis was performed using R version 4.3.3 to identify differentially expressed proteins and key pathogenic genes. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) and western blots were employed to validate the expression levels of candidate genes. RESULTS: The proteomic analysis revealed that regulatory signaling pathway of insulin-like growth factor-binding protein (IGFBP) for IGF transport and uptake and the platelet degranulation signaling pathway were significantly implicated in OA pathogenesis. Among the differentially expressed proteins, fibrinogen alpha chain (FGA) was identified as a central gene associated with OA. The qPCR and western blots validation confirmed significantly elevated expression of FGA in OA articular chondrocytes samples compared to controls. CONCLUSIONS: FGA plays a pivotal role in the molecular pathology of OA and may represent a promising therapeutic target for the development of precision treatments for OA.
PXD060310	40394585	pTripleTREP - A vector for tightly controlled expression and purification of virulence factors in Staphylococcus aureus. 	pTripleTREP - A vector for tightly controlled expression and purification of virulence factors in Staphylococcus aureus	Purity, Recombinant protein, Signal peptide, Staphylococcus aureus	BACKGROUND: Recombinant proteins facilitate and contribute to detailed studies of the virulence mechanisms and pathophysiology of the major human pathogen Staphylococcus aureus. Of particular interest are secreted virulence factors. However, due to their potential toxicity and specific post-translational processing, virulence factors are difficult targets for heterologous protein production. Purified proteins with native conformation and adequate purity can therefore often only be achieved by elaborate multi-step purification workflows. While homologous expression in S. aureus theoretically offers a promising alternative in this regard, its application remains limited due to the lack of systems that ensure both tightly controlled expression and subsequent efficient purification. RESULTS: To bridge this gap, we present pTripleTREP as a versatile expression vector for S. aureus, which enables the homologous expression and purification of staphylococcal virulence factors. It features a strong SigA-dependent staphylococcal promoter overlapped by three tetracycline responsive elements (TRE), which ensures tight repression under control conditions and high expression levels upon induction of the target gene. This allowed very precise controlled production of the exemplary targets, serine protease-like protein A (SplA) and B (SplB). A simple single-step protein purification workflow using a Twin-Strep-tag and Strep-Tactin((R))XT coated magnetic beads yielded endotoxin-free Spl samples with purities above 99%. Thereby, the homologous production host facilitates native secretion and maturation without the need to engineer the target gene sequence. Proper signal peptide cleavage and the corresponding enzymatic activity of the generated protein products were confirmed for SplA and B. CONCLUSION: The expression vector pTripleTREP adds an important element to the staphylococcal molecular toolbox, facilitating the tightly controlled homologous expression and rapid native purification of secreted staphylococcal virulence factors. The optimised architecture and genetic features of the vector additionally provide a solid background for further applications such as plasmid-based complementation or interaction studies. Thus, pTripleTREP will support research on the role of staphylococcal virulence factors, paving the way for future therapeutic strategies to combat this pathogen.
PXD049036	40394633	FACS-Proteomics strategy toward extracellular vesicles single-phenotype characterization in biological fluids: exploring the role of leukocyte-derived EVs in multiple sclerosis. 	FACS-Proteomics strategy toward Extracellular Vesicles single-phenotype characterization in biological fluids: insights into the role of Leukocyte-derived EVs in Multiple Sclerosis	FACS-proteomics, Leukocyte-derived EVs, Multiple Sclerosis, tears	BACKGROUND: The isolation and proteomics characterization of extracellular vesicles (EVs) from body fluids is challenging due to their vast heterogeneity. We have recently demonstrated that Fluorescence-activated Cell Sorting (FACS) efficiently isolates the whole EV circulating compartment directly from untouched body fluids enabling a comprehensive EV proteomics analysis. RESULTS: Here, we characterized, for the first time, a single-phenotype EV subset by sorting leukocyte-derived EVs (Leuko EVs) from peripheral blood and tears of healthy volunteers. Using an optimized and patented staining protocol of the whole EV compartment we identified and excluded non-EV particles, debris and damaged EVs. We further isolated, using an anti-CD45 antibody, Leuko EVs (CD45+ EVs), reaching a high level of purity (> 90%). Purified Leuko EVs were characterized using atomic force microscopy, nanoparticle tracking, and shotgun proteomics analysis revealing a similar coded protein cargo in both biological fluids. Subsequently, the same workflow was applied to tears from Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis (RRMS) patients, revealing a Leuko EVs protein cargo enrichment that reflects the neuroinflammatory condition characteristics of RRMS. This enrichment was evidenced by the activation of upstream regulators TGFB1 and NFE2L2, which are associated with inflammatory responses. Additionally, the analysis identified markers indicative of endothelial cell proliferation and the development of enhanced vascular networks, with AGNPT2 and VEGF emerging as activated upstream regulators. These findings indicate the complex interplay between inflammation and angiogenesis in RRMS. CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, our combined FACS-Proteomics strategy offers a promising approach for biomarker discovery, analysing cell-specific EV phenotypes directly from untouched body fluids, advancing the clinical value of tears EVs and improving the understanding of EV-mediated processes in vivo. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with the identifier PXD049036 and in EV-TRACK knowledgebase with ID: EV240150.
PXD058393	40395997	Provirus deletion from Haloferax volcanii affects motility, stress resistance, and CRISPR RNA expression. 	Provirus deletion from Haloferax volcanii affects motility, stress resistance and CRISPR RNA expression	CRISPR RNA, Haloferax volcanii, archaea, motility, provirus, virus	Haloferax volcanii harbours four putative proviruses: Halfvol1, Halfvol2, Halfvol3, and Halfvol4. In this study, we successfully deleted all four provirus genomes, demonstrating, that they are not essential. Transcriptome comparison between this strain (incrementHalfvol1-4) and a wild-type strain reveals an increase in archaella and chemotaxis gene expression, resulting in higher swarming motility in incrementHalfvol1-4. Furthermore, incrementHalfvol1-4 cells show an elongated cell shape and a higher resistance to H2O2 stress compared to the wild type. RNA-seq also revealed downregulation of CRISPR arrays in the provirus-free strain. Circularised genomes of Halfvol1, Halfvol2, and Halfvol3 were found in the culture supernatant of the wild-type strain. This confirms excision of the proviruses from the chromosome, which seems to happen more efficiently at low temperature (30degreesC). Electron microscopy revealed potential viral particles in the supernatant, and mass spectrometry analysis confirmed the presence of structural viral proteins of Halfvol1 and Halfvol3 in the isolated virus sample. These observations suggest that these proviruses are active and cause a chronic infection in H. volcanii.
PXD034136	40396016	Parkin-dependent mitophagy occurs via proteasome-dependent steps sequentially targeting separate mitochondrial sub-compartments for autophagy. 	Parkin-dependent mitophagy occurs via proteasome-dependent stepwise inwardly directed mitochondrial sub-compartment targeting to lysosomes	mitochondrial outer membrane, mitophagy, parkin, proteasome, ubiquitin	PINK1/parkin-dependent mitophagy initially involves (phospho)ubiquitin-directed proteasome-dependent degradation of certain outer mitochondrial membrane (OMM) proteins (e.g. mitofusins) and the recruitment of autophagy adaptors to a group of ubiquitinated OMM proteins, eventually leading to autophagic removal of damaged mitochondria in stressed cells. Here we provide evidence that mitochondrial degradation occurs via stepwise delivery of separate mitochondrial sub-compartments for autophagic degradation. OMM and inner mitochondrial material appears to become separately isolated for autophagolysosomal degradation, not only in parkin-overexpressing HeLa cells but also in cells that express endogenous parkin (human embryonic kidney cells and neural progenitor cells) with slower mitophagy kinetics. The remaining inner mitochondrial material becomes degraded only after much prolonged membrane depolarization, potentially involving another proteasome-sensitive step. The present combined microscopy and proteomics analyses support the idea that cell stress-induced parkin-dependent mitophagy is a complex multi-step process with distinct mitochondrial sub-compartments being separately targeted for autophagic degradation. Abbreviations: BafA, Bafilomycin A; CCCP, carbonyl cyanide 3-chlorophenylhydrazone; COX IV, cytochrome c oxidase subunit IV; CS, citrate synthase; DMEM, Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium; EGFP, enhanced green fluorescent protein; FBS, fetal bovine serum; IF, immunofluorescence; IMM, inner mitochondrial membrane; KO, knock-out; LC3, microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3; MDVs, mitochondria-derived vesicles; MFN, mitofusin; NPCs, neural progenitor cells; OMM, outer mitochondrial membrane; p62/SQSTM, 62kDa protein sequestosome-1; PBS, phosphate-buffered saline; PINK1, phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN)-induced putative kinase protein 1; RT, room temperature; SSBP1, single-stranded DNA binding protein 1; TAX1BP1, Tax1-binding protein 1; TEM, transmission electron microscopy, TOM20, translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 20kDa subunit; TOM70, translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 70kDa subunit; Ub, ubiquitin; UPS, ubiquitin proteasome system; VDAC, voltage-dependent anion-selective channel protein; WB, Western blot; WT, wild-type.
PXD059279	40396329	Dual Role for Pld1 in Klebsiella pneumoniae Virulence: Transcriptomics and Proteomics Provide Insights into Direct and Indirect Effects. 	Identification of Ligands of the PLD1 Protein from Klebsiella pneumoniae in Protein Extracts of Human THP-1 Macrophages	Pulldown, Q-exactive HF-X, capsule, fimbriae, phospholipase D	Klebsiella pneumoniae is an opportunistic pathogen frequently found in healthcare settings, exhibiting resistance to carbapenems and third-generation cephalosporins. Hypervirulent community-acquired strains are also emerging. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), it is the top priority for developing new treatment strategies. A putative phospholipase D (PLD1) was linked to K. pneumoniae virulence, as a mutant strain is avirulent in a mouse model. However, the PLD1 function remains unclear. In the current study, no interaction between PLD1 and lipids was detected in a fat-blot. Lipidomic profile was not altered between strains or infected cells. To shed light on the role of PLD1, we compared the gene expression profile of a wild-type x pld1 mutant and found 330 modulated genes. Noteworthy, capsular polysaccharide genes were increased in the wild-type, while the mutant expressed higher levels of fimbriae, conjugation systems, and stress-protection proteins. Electron microscopy confirmed a loose capsule in the mutant, which also showed an enhanced adhesion to epithelial cells. A pulldown experiment using PLD1 as bait identified 48 macrophage proteins as putative ligands, including ribosomal, RNA-related, small GTPases, and cytoskeleton-related proteins. It suggests that PLD1 may modulate host cell complexes, favoring the infection. These findings provide novel clues about PLD1's role in virulence, guiding further investigations.
PXD061770	40397753	When less is more: Counterintuitive stoichiometriesand cellular abundances are essential for ABC transporters' function. 	When Less is MORE: Counterintuitive Stoichiometries and Cellular Abundances are Essential for 2 ABC transporters' function	ABC Importers, Functional-Proteomics	Prokaryotes acquire essential nutrients primarily through adenosine triphosphate-binding cassette (ABC) importers, consisting of an adenosine triphosphatase, a permease, and a substrate-binding protein. These importers are highly underrepresented in proteomic databases, limiting our knowledge about their cellular copy numbers, component stoichiometry, and the mechanistic implications of these parameters. We developed a tailored proteomic approach to compile the most comprehensive dataset to date of the Escherichia coli "ABC importome." Functional assays and analyses of deletion strains revealed mechanistic features linking molecular mechanisms to cellular abundances, colocalization, and component stoichiometries. We observed four to five orders of magnitude variation in import system abundances, with copy numbers tuned to nutrient hierarchies essential for growth. Abundances of substrate-binding proteins are unrelated to their substrate binding affinities but are tightly yet inversely correlated with their interaction affinity with permeases. Counterintuitive component stoichiometries are crucial for function, offering insights into the design principles of multicomponent protein systems, potentially extending beyond ABC importers.
PXD054708	40397754	Sphingolipid synthesis in tumor-associated macrophages confers immunotherapy resistance in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Phosphoproteomics analysis of TAMs with NEK2 overexpression	NEK2, Phosphoproteomics, TAMs, pancreatic cancer	Dysregulated metabolism of immune cells in the tumor microenvironment leads to immune evasion and tumor progression. As a major cell component in the tumor, the metabolic reprogramming of tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) creates an immunosuppressive microenvironment in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Our study found that sphingolipid (particularly, sphingosine-1-phosphate or S1P) levels are a clinical indicator for prognosis and immunotherapy response in patients with HCC. S1P primarily derived from TAMs, where NIMA-related kinase 2 (NEK2) plays a key role in controlling the activity of serine palmitoyl-CoA transferase, a rate-limiting enzyme in S1P biosynthesis. The S1P produced by NEK2(hi) TAMs promotes hepatic tumor progression and confers immunotherapy resistance. Targeting S1P synthesis with a NEK2 inhibitor or S1P antagonist disrupted the immunosuppressive function of macrophages, shifted regulatory T cells (Tregs) to TH17 cells, and increased the number and activity of tumor-infiltrating T effectors, thereby enhancing antitumor efficacy in synergy with immune checkpoint blockade therapy.
PXD054609	40398593	Evolution-guided tolerance engineering of Pseudomonas putida KT2440 for production of the aviation fuel precursor isoprenol. 	Adaptive lab evolution and omics characterization enable tolerance engineering of Pseudomonas putida KT2440 to produce the jet-fuel precursor isoprenol	Adaptive laboratory evolution, Pseudomonas putida, isoprenol, sustainable aviation fuel, tolerance engineering	Isoprenol (3-methyl-3-buten-1-ol) is a precursor to aviation fuels and other commodity chemicals and can be microbially synthesized from renewable carbon streams. Its production has been demonstrated in Pseudomonas putida KT2440 but its titers, rates, and yields have yet to reach commercially viable levels, potentially due to toxicity to the bacterial chassis. We hypothesized that utilization of Tolerization Adaptive Laboratory Evolution (TALE) would generate P. putida hosts more tolerant to isoprenol and suitable for enhanced production phenotypes. Here, we performed a comprehensive TALE campaign using three strains, the wild-type and two strains lacking subsets of known isoprenol catabolism and transport functions in quadruplicate independently evolved lineages. Several evolved clones from each starting strain displayed robust growth (up to 0.2 h(-1)) at 8 g/L of isoprenol, where starting strains could not grow. Whole genome resequencing of the 12 independent strain lineages identified convergent mutations. Reverse engineering each of the four commonly mutated regions individually (gnuR, ttgB-PP_1394, PP_3024-PP_5558, PP_1695) resulted in a partial recovery of the tolerance phenotypes observed in the evolved strains. Additionally, a proteomics-guided deletion of the master motility regulator, fleQ, in an evolved clone alleviated the tolerance vs. production trade-off, restoring isoprenol titers and consumption to levels observed in the starting strains. Collectively, this work demonstrated that an integrated strategy of laboratory evolution and rational engineering was effective to develop robust biofuel production hosts with minimized product toxicity.
PXD061568	40399264	Asb10 accelerates pathological cardiac remodeling by stabilizing HSP70. 	IP-MS of NRVMs overexpressing Asb10	Asb10, IP-MS, NRVMs	Cardiac hypertrophy is a pivotal risk factor for heart failure. Hypertension-induced pressure overload triggers left ventricular hypertrophy and leads to heart failure. Although the precise mechanisms remain incompletely elucidated, recent studies highlighted the role of ubiquitin-proteasome system in this process. As a heart tissue-enriched E3 ligase, the function of Asb10 in cardiac hypertrophy remains unknown. Here, we aimed to dissect the role of Asb10 in the pathogenesis of cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. Through integrated bioinformatic screening of GEO datasets and experimental verifications, we identified Asb10 as the downregulated gene in cardiac hypertrophy. Adenoviral overexpression of Asb10 exacerbated hypertrophic growth in NRVMs treated with phenylephrine or endothelin-1. Mechanistically, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry and co-immunoprecipitation assays revealed that Asb10 binds HSP70 and competitively blocks STUB1-mediated ubiquitination and degradation of HSP70, thereby stabilizing HSP70. Pharmacological or small interfering RNA-induced inhibition of HSP70 partially reversed Asb10 overexpression-induced hypertrophic growth in NRVMs. In vivo, mice administrated with AAV9-Asb10 exhibited worse cardiac function and more severe interstitial fibrosis following TAC surgery, while mice injected with AAV9-shAsb10 showed improved outcomes. Furthermore, we observed that the effects of Asb10 on cardiac hypertrophy were attributed to the elevation of HSP70, cardiac inflammation, and activation of pHDAC2(S394). Collectively, these findings demonstrate that Asb10 stabilizes HSP70 via competitively inhibiting STUB1-mediated ubiquitin-dependent degradation, thereby exacerbating cardiac hypertrophy, highlighting the role of Asb10 in hemodynamic stress-induced cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure.
PXD054068	40399277	Multi-omics analysis of SFTS virus infection in Rhipicephalus microplus cells reveals antiviral tick factors. 	BME/CTVM6 cells infected by SFTSV MOI 1	Bunyavirus, tick cells	The increasing prevalence of tick-borne arboviral infections worldwide necessitates advanced control strategies, particularly those targeting vectors, to mitigate the disease burden. However, the cellular interactions between arboviruses and ticks, especially for negative-strand RNA viruses, remain largely unexplored. Here, we employ a proteomics informed by transcriptomics approach to elucidate the cellular response of the Rhipicephalus microplus-derived BME/CTVM6 cell line to severe fever with thrombocytopenia syndrome virus (SFTSV) infection. We generate the de novo transcriptomes and proteomes of SFTSV- and mock-infected tick cells, identifying key host responses and regulatory pathways. Additionally, interactome analysis of the viral nucleoprotein (N) integrated host responses with viral replication and dsRNA-mediated gene silencing screen reveals two anti-SFTSV effectors: the N interacting RNA helicases DHX9 and UPF1. Collectively, our results provide insights into the antiviral responses of R. microplus vector cells and highlight critical SFTSV restriction factors, while enriching transcriptomic and proteomic resources for future research.
PXD053952	40399309	A searchable atlas of pathogen-sensitive lncRNA networks in human macrophages. 	A multiomics framework for high-throughput lncRNA characterization uncovers major immune regulators	AC022816, GRADR, LINC01215, ROCKI, SMyLR, immunity, inflammation, lncRNA, lung, macrophage	Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNA) are crucial yet underexplored regulators of human immunity. Here we develop GRADR, a method integrating gradient profiling with RNA-binding proteome analysis, to map the protein interactomes of all expressed RNAs in a single experiment to study mechanisms of lncRNA-mediated regulation of human primary macrophages. Applying GRADR alongside CRISPR-multiomics, we reveal a network of NFkappaB-dependent lncRNAs, including LINC01215, AC022816.1 and ROCKI, which modulate distinct aspects of macrophage immunity, particularly through interactions with mRNA-processing factors, such as hnRNP proteins. We further uncover the function of ROCKI in repressing the messenger of the anti-inflammatory GATA2 transcription factor, thus promoting macrophage activation. Lastly, all data are consolidated in the SMyLR web interface, a searchable reference catalog for exploring lncRNA functions and pathway-dependencies in immune cells. Our results thus not only highlight the important functions of lncRNAs in immune regulation, but also provide a rich resource for lncRNA studies.
PXD055869	40399315	Establishment of salivary tissue-organoid biorepository: characterizing salivary gland stem/progenitor cells and novel differentiation marker PSMA/FOLH1. 	Establishment of Salivary Tissue-Organoid Biorepository	biobanking, salivary gland, scRNA sequencing, single cell proteomics	The salivary gland (SG) is vital for oral function and overall health through secretion of saliva. However salivary dysfunction due to aging, medications, autoimmune disorders, and cancer treatments poses significant challenges. We established the first diverse and clinically annotated salivary regenerative biobank at Mayo Clinic to study salivary gland stem/progenitor cells (SGSPCs). Optimization of cell isolation and progenitor assays revealed SGSPCs enriched within the CD24/EpCAM/CD49f+ and PSMA- phenotypes of both submandibular and parotid glands, with clonal differentiation assays highlighting heterogeneity. Induction of PSMA/FOLH1 expression was associated with SGSPC differentiation. Using mass spectrometry-based single cell proteomics, we identified 2461 proteins in SGSPC-enriched cells, including co-expressed cytokeratins, expressed in rare salivary ductal basal cells. Additionally, PRDX, a unique class of peroxiredoxin peroxidases enriched in SGSPCs, demonstrated H2O2-dependent growth, suggesting a role in salivary homeostasis. These findings provide a foundation for SGSPC research and potential regenerative therapies for salivary gland dysfunction.
PXD050600	40399358	Survival strategies of Rhinocladiella similis in perchlorate-rich Mars like environments. 	Surviving Mars: The role of black fungus Rhinocladiella similis in understanding life in perchlorate-rich environments	Rhinocladiela similis, UV-C radiation, extremophiles, omics., perchlorate brines, space exploration	Studying the survival of terrestrial microorganisms under Martian conditions, particularly in the presence of perchlorates, provides crucial insights for astrobiology. This research investigates the resilience of the extremophile black fungus Rhinocladiella similis to magnesium perchlorate and UV-C radiation. Results show R. similis, known for its tolerance to acidic conditions, exhibits remarkable resistance to UV-C radiation combined with perchlorate, as well as to high concentrations of magnesium perchlorate, surpassing Exophiala sp. strain 15Lv1, a eukaryotic model organism for Mars-like conditions. Growth curve analyses revealed both strains can thrive in perchlorate concentrations mimicking Martian perchlorate-rich environments, with R. similis adapting better to higher concentrations. Morphological and protein production changes were investigated, and mass spectrometry identified perchlorate-induced proteins, advancing molecular understanding of potential microbial life on Mars. These findings advance knowledge of extremophile capabilities, contributing to the search for life beyond Earth and informing the design of future Martian rovers equipped for biosignature detection.
PXD053975	40400417	The Ancient Drug Salicylate Indirectly Targets Fructose-1,6-Bisphosphatase to Suppress Liver Glucose Production in Diet-Induced Obese Mice. 	Fructose-bisphosphatase 1 (FBP1) is a target of the antihyperglycemic action of salicylate	AMP, FBP1, Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Diabetes (B/D-HPP), Salicylate	AIMS: The benefit of salicylate in the treatment of diabetes has been recognized for over a century; however, challenging side effects have prevented widespread use. A better understanding of the relevant enzyme targets mediating its anti-hyperglycaemic effect may lead to the development of novel therapies for diabetes. Here, we investigated the contribution of 5'-adenosine monophosphate (AMP)-dependent inhibition of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase 1 (FBP1) to the anti-hyperglycaemic action of salicylate. METHODS: We studied AMP-insensitive FBP1 G27P knockin (KI) mice through a variety of cellular approaches, including proteomics, Seahorse metabolic analysis, glucose production, and other assays, in addition to a detailed assessment of metabolic responses in vivo. RESULTS: Compared with wild-type littermates, AMP-insensitive FBP1 KI mice were resistant to the effects of the drug on body weight, glucose tolerance, pyruvate disposal, liver lipid content and hepatic glucose production. Compared with wild-type, KI hepatocytes exhibited baseline differences in glycolytic, TCA cycle and fatty acid oxidation enzyme levels, potentially linking gluconeogenic dysregulation and its reversal to non-carbohydrate fuel management. CONCLUSION: Collectively, our data highlight a novel mechanism of action for the effects of salicylate on glycaemia and weight gain, which depends on AMP-mediated allosteric inhibition of FBP1.
PXD047401	40403727	A specific form of cPRC1 containing CBX4 is co-opted to mediate oncogenic gene repression in diffuse midline glioma. 	Specific cPRC1 complexes are co-opted to mediate oncogenic gene repression in H3K27M-mutant diffuse midline glioma.	PRC2, epigenetics, glioma	Diffuse midline glioma (DMG) is a fatal childhood brain tumor characterized primarily by mutant histone H3 (H3K27M). H3K27M causes a global reduction in Polycomb repressive complex 2 (PRC2)-mediated H3K27 trimethylation (H3K27me3). Paradoxically, PRC2 is essential in DMG cells, although the downstream molecular mechanisms are poorly understood. Here, we have discovered a specific form of canonical PRC1 (cPRC1) containing CBX4 and PCGF4 that drives oncogenic gene repression downstream of H3K27me3 in DMG cells. Via a novel functional region, CBX4 preferentially associates with PCGF4-containing cPRC1. The characteristic H3K27me3 landscape in DMG rewires the distribution of cPRC1 complexes, with CBX4/PCGF4-cPRC1 accumulating at H3K27me3-enriched CpG islands. Despite comprising <5% of cPRC1 in DMG cells, the unique repressive functions of CBX4/PCGF4-cPRC1 are essential for DMG growth. Our findings link the altered distribution of H3K27me3 to imbalanced cPRC1 function, which drives oncogenic gene repression in DMG, highlighting potential therapeutic opportunities for this incurable childhood brain cancer.
PXD062153	40404885	Nanoparticle-mediated targeting of PGC-1alpha reveals critical metabolic pathways in bladder cancer metastasis. 	Targeting PGC-1alpha in Bladder Cancer: Unraveling Energy Metabolism Reprogramming for Therapeutic Intervention	Metastatic bladder cancer	Metastatic bladder cancer is characterized by its aggressive behavior and complex molecular mechanisms that remain largely undefined. This study explores the therapeutic potential of targeting peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma coactivator 1-alpha (PGC-1alpha) using liposomal nanoparticles to deliver PGC-1alpha siRNA to bladder cancer cells. We employed comprehensive transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analyses to investigate the impact of PGC-1alpha silencing. Our in vitro results demonstrate that targeting PGC-1alpha significantly impairs mitochondrial function and disrupts energy metabolism, affecting critical pathways such as glycolysis and the citric acid cycle, as well as altering mRNA nuclear export. In vivo experiments in animal models show that nanoparticles loaded with si-PGC-1alpha effectively reduce lung metastasis, indicating a significant impact on metastatic progression. These findings highlight PGC-1alpha as a key regulator of metabolic reprogramming in metastatic bladder cancer and suggest that its inhibition could serve as a promising therapeutic strategy. By elucidating the role of PGC-1alpha in cancer metabolism, this study provides new insights into the molecular underpinnings of bladder cancer metastasis and offers potential avenues for developing targeted therapies aimed at the metabolic vulnerabilities of this malignancy.
PXD043059	40405018	Tumor antigens preferentially derive from unmutated genomic sequences in melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer. 	LC-MSMS of the MHC-I immunopeptidome of human melanoma	MHC class I, Melanoma, immunopeptidome	Melanoma and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) display exceptionally high mutational burdens. Hence, immune targeting in these cancers has primarily focused on tumor antigens (TAs) predicted to derive from nonsynonymous mutations. Using comprehensive proteogenomic analyses, we identified 589 TAs in cutaneous melanoma (n = 505) and NSCLC (n = 90). Of these, only 1% were derived from mutated sequences, which was explained by a low RNA expression of most nonsynonymous mutations and their localization outside genomic regions proficient for major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-associated peptide generation. By contrast, 99% of TAs originated from unmutated genomic sequences specific to cancer (aberrantly expressed tumor-specific antigens (aeTSAs), n = 220), overexpressed in cancer (tumor-associated antigens (TAAs), n = 165) or specific to the cell lineage of origin (lineage-specific antigens (LSAs), n = 198). Expression of aeTSAs was epigenetically regulated, and most were encoded by noncanonical genomic sequences. aeTSAs were shared among tumor samples, were immunogenic and could contribute to the response to immune checkpoint blockade observed in previous studies, supporting their immune targeting across cancers.
PXD054743	40406141	Evidence of focusing the MHC class I immunopeptidome by tapasin. 	Evidence of focusing the MHC class I immunopeptidome by tapasin	HLA, immunopeptidomics, tapasin	Major Histocompatibility Complex class I (MHC-I) molecules bind and present peptides to cytotoxic T cells, protecting against pathogens and cancer. MHC-I is highly polymorphic and each allotype is promiscuous, and capable of binding a unique and diverse repertoire of peptide ligands. The peptide editing chaperone tapasin optimizes this allotype specific repertoire of peptides, resulting in the selection of high affinity peptides. MHC-I allotypes differ in the extent they engage tapasin. This suggests that tapasin-dependent MHC-I allotypes should present a less diverse repertoire that is enriched in higher-affinity peptides, and which are present in higher abundance, than tapasin independent MHC-I allotypes, which should present a broader repertoire containing peptides with a lower average affinity. Experimental verification of this hypothesis has been confounded by the different peptide binding specificities of MHC-I allotypes. Here, we independently investigated the peptide focusing function of tapasin by introducing a point mutation into a tapasin independent MHC-I allotype that dramatically increased its tapasin dependence without substantially altering its peptide binding specificity. This allowed us to demonstrate ligand focusing by tapasin at both the repertoire level in cellulo, and by using an in vitro system in which tapasin was artificially tethered to MHC-I, at the individual peptide level. We found that tapasin had a greater influence on tapasin dependent MHC-I molecules, and that tapasin modulated peptide selection according to peptide-MHC-I complex stability, disfavoring short-lived peptide-MHC-I complexes. Thus, tapasin dependent MHC-I molecules experience greater tapasin filtering, resulting in less diverse MHC-I immunopeptidomes that are enriched in high affinity peptide-MHC-I complexes.
PXD062753	40407344	Identification and characterization of O-GlcNAc modifications of a conserved orthopoxvirus core protein. 	Identification and characterization of O-GlcNAc modifications of a conserved orthopoxvirus core protein	A4, O-GlcNAc, O-GlcNAcylation, Orthopoxvirus	O-GlcNAcylation, a post-translational modification consisting of O-linked N-acetylglucosamine attached to serine and threonine residues, occurs in thousands of cytoplasmic, nuclear, and mitochondrial proteins but has been reported for relatively few viral proteins. We used click chemistry, specific antibodies, and mass spectrometry to investigate the O-GlcNAcylation of vaccinia virus (VACV) proteins. A virion protein of ~40 kDa was identified by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis following azide-alkyne cycloaddition of biotin or an infrared dye to O-GlcNAc residues. Candidate O-GlcNAc virion proteins were detected by mass spectrometry, and A4, a highly conserved core component required for virion assembly, was identified by decreased electrophoretic mobility resulting from the specific attachment of multiple 10 kDa polyethylene glycol residues to O-GlcNAc sites. O-GlcNAc was not detected in virions of an A4 deletion mutant, suggesting A4 is the only or major constituent with this modification. Multiple O-GlcNAc modified amino acids in intrinsically disordered regions of A4 were identified by electron transfer dissociation mass spectrometry. Recombinant A4 was O-GlcNAcylated following stable and transient transfection of uninfected cell lines, suggesting a role for a cellular enzyme, which was confirmed by reduction of the modification by specific inhibitors of O-GlcNAc transferase during virus infection. Moreover, induced degradation of O-GlcNAc transferase prior to VACV infection decreased O-GlcNAcylation of A4 to undetectable levels without diminishing the A4 abundance. Nevertheless, the specific infectivity of O-GlcNAc-deficient virus particles was unimpaired. O-GlcNAcylation either has a subtle role in the VACV life cycle, or A4 is an inadvertent substrate of the promiscuous O-GlcNAc transferase.IMPORTANCEO-GlcNAc is a reversible enzymatic post-translational modification of serine and threonine residues found on thousands of cellular proteins with roles in regulating numerous functions including signal transduction, transcription, and stress response. However, little is known about O-GlcNAc modifications of viral proteins. Here, we report that the vaccinia virus A4 core protein has multiple O-GlcNAc modifications. The cellular O-GlcNAc transferase was shown to be required for modifying the vaccinia virus protein, which is synthesized and assembled into virus particles within cytoplasmic virus factories. Moreover, inhibition and degradation of the transferase prevented O-GlcNAcylation of A4. Nevertheless, virus assembly and replication in vitro were unaffected by the absence of the modification, suggesting that the addition of O-GlcNAc to A4 has a subtle role or that the modification is a byproduct of a promiscuous O-GlcNAc transferase that preferentially modifies intrinsically disordered regions of proteins.
PXD062562	40407487	Production of Multifunctional Hydrolysates from the Lupinus mutabilis Protein Using a Micrococcus sp. PC7 Protease. 	Production of multifunctional hydrolysates from Lupinus mutabilis protein using a Micrococcus sp. PC7 protease	Lupinus mutabilis, Protease PC7, albumin fraction, multifunctionality., ultrafiltration	The growing demand for functional foods has driven the search for bioactive compounds derived from plant proteins. Lupinus mutabilis "Tarwi", a legume native to the Peruvian Andes, stands out for its high protein content and potential as a source of bioactive peptides (BPs). In this study, the functionality of the proteins contained in the albumin fraction (AF) isolated by tangential ultrafiltration (TFF) was investigated by using the OmicsBox software. The identified proteins were functionally classified into three groups: cellular component (35.57%), molecular function (33.45%), and biological process (30.97%). The isolated AF was hydrolysed with the native protease PC7 (HAP), optimizing the E/S ratio and time parameters. Additionally, sequential hydrolysis of the PC7 protease and alcalase (HAPA) was performed. In vitro multifunctionality assays, HAP and HAPA demonstrated the ability to scavenge radicals (ABTS and ORAC) and inhibit angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-I and dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPP-IV). The findings of this study highlight the potential of L. mutabilis albumin hydrolysate as a multifunctional ingredient for functional foods aimed at managing chronic conditions associated with oxidative stress, hypertension, and/or metabolic disorders.
PXD063051	40407494	Small Extracellular Vesicle (sEV) Uptake from Lung Adenocarcinoma and Squamous Cell Carcinoma Alters T-Cell Cytokine Expression and Modulates Protein Profiles in sEV Biogenesis. 	lung cancer sEV uptake by T cells	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cancer (B/D-HPP), cross-treatment, exosome, lung cancer, uptake	BACKGROUND: Despite advances in immunotherapy, non-small-cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC)'s clinical success is limited, possibly due to substantial immunological alterations in advanced cancer patients. This study examines the immunomodulatory effects of sEVs derived from lung adenocarcinoma (ADC) and squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) on T cells. METHODS: SEVs were isolated from lung cancer cell lines and Jurkat-E6.1. SEV size and morphology were analyzed by NTA and TEM, respectively, while Western blotting confirmed sEV markers. SEV uptake was assessed, followed by resazurin assay, RNA isolation, quantification, cDNA preparation, RT-PCR, nano LC-MS, and bioinformatic analysis, before and after treating Jurkat-E6.1 cells with sEVs from A549 and SKMES1. RESULTS: Cancer-derived sEVs were efficiently internalized by immune cells, reducing T-cell viability. The real-time PCR analysis showed downregulation of KI67, BCL2, BAX, TNFA, IL6, TGFbeta, and IL10, suggesting reduced proliferation, dysregulated apoptosis, and impaired inflammatory and immunosuppressive signaling, and the upregulation of GZMB and IL2 suggests retained cytotoxic potential but possibly dysfunctional T-cell activation. Proteomic analysis revealed 39 differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) in ADC-treated T cells and 276 in SCC-treated T cells, with 19 shared DAPs. Gene Ontology (GO) analysis of these DAPs highlighted processes such as sEV biogenesis, metabolic pathways, and regulatory functions, with ADC sEVs influencing NAD metabolism, ECM binding, and oxidoreductase activity, while SCC sEVs affected mRNA stability, amino acid metabolism, and cadherin binding. The cytoplasmic colocalization suggests the presence of these proteins in the cellular and extracellular lumen, indicating the potential of further release of these proteins in the vesicles by T cells. CONCLUSION: Lung cancer-derived sEVs regulate T-cell activities through immunoregulatory signaling. The molecular interactions between sEVs and immune cells can reveal novel tumor immune regulatory mechanisms and therapeutic targets.
PXD062939	40408475	Immune cell infiltration into brain tumor microenvironment is mediated by Rab27-regulated vascular wall integrity. 	Immune cell infiltration into brain tumor microenvironment is mediated by Rab27-regulated vascular wall integrity	Brain tumor, adoptive immunity, blood brain barrier, cytotoxic T-cells, endothelial cells, glioma, tight junctions., tumor microenvironment, vasculature	Aggressive brain tumors often exhibit immunologically 'cold' microenvironment, where the vascular barrier impedes effective immunotherapy in poorly understood ways. Tumor vasculature also plays a pivotal role in immunoregulation and antitumor immunity. Here, we show that small GTPase Rab27 controls the vascular morphogenesis and permeability for blood content and immune effectors. Thus, in Rab27a/b double knock out (Rab27-dKO) mice, the brain vasculature is abnormally scarce, while the blood vessels become dysmorphic and hyperpermeable in the context of brain tumors, including syngeneic glioblastoma. These defects are reflected in rearrangements of endothelial cell subpopulations with underlying diminution of venous endothelial subtype along with changes in gene and protein expression. Notably, Rab27-dKO brain endothelial cells exhibit deficient tight junctions, whereby they enable large-scale extravasation of cytotoxic T cells into the tumor mass. We show that Rab27-regulated vascular T cell infiltration can be exploited to enhance adoptive T cell therapy in syngeneic brain tumors.
PXD060782	40409556	ARRDC3 tyrosine phosphorylation functions as a switch to control c-Src versus WWP2 interactions and distinct scaffolding functions. 	ARRDC3 tyrosine phosphorylation functions as a switch to control c-Src versus WWP2 interactions and distinct scaffolding functions	ARRDC3, tyrosine phosphorylation	Mammalian alpha-arrestins are members of the same arrestin family as the ubiquitously expressed and extensively studied beta-arrestins. Arrestins share common structural elements including the conserved N- and C-arrestin-fold domains, polar core, finger loop, and C-terminal tail, all of which mediate protein-protein interactions. In beta-arrestins, these domains enable the control of G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling and scaffolding interactions with various signaling proteins including c-Src. By contrast, the repertoire of alpha-arrestin scaffolding partners and regulatory mechanisms that control their interactions are not well understood. alpha-arrestins differ considerably from beta-arrestins in the C-terminal region; beta-arrestins contain clathrin adaptor beta-adaptin binding sites whereas alpha-arrestins harbor PPxY motifs, demonstrated to interact with WW domains of E3 ubiquitin ligases such as WWP2. Here we report the identification of a novel phosphorylation site, tyrosine (Y) 394, embedded in the C-terminal PPxY motif of alpha-arrestin ARRDC3. The Y394 site functions as a phospho-regulatory switch to enable distinct ARRDC3 binding partners and scaffolding functions. We found that ARRDC3 Y394 phosphorylation promotes interaction with c-Src via its SH2 domain, whereas the non-phosphorylated form binds to WWP2. Our results further show that ARRDC3 Y394 phosphorylation and c-Src SH2 domain-dependent interaction enables regulation of c-Src activity, whereas ARRDC3 Y394 phosphorylation disrupts WWP2 interaction and perturbs ARRDC3-dependent lysosomal trafficking of the GPCR, protease-activated receptor-1. Together these findings indicate that ARRDC3 Y394 functions as a phospho-regulatory switch to enable selective binding to different partners that impact distinct scaffolding functions.
PXD062245	40410168	Linker-free PROTACs efficiently induce the degradation of oncoproteins. 	Investigating the off-target effects of Pro-BA using label-free and TMTpro quantitative proteomics	2h gradient, Labelfree, PD2.4, TMTpro label	Proteolysis-targeting chimeras (PROTACs) present a potentially effective strategy against various diseases via selective proteolysis. How to increase the efficacy of PROTACs remains challenging. Here, we explore the necessity of the linker, which has been deemed as an integral part of heterobifunctional PROTACs. Adopting single amino acid-based degradation signals, we find that the linker is not a required feature of the PROTACs. Notably, the linker-free PROTAC, Pro-BA, exhibits superior efficacy over its linker-bearing counterparts in degrading EML4-ALK and inhibiting lung cancer cell growth, as Pro-BA induces a stronger interaction between the target and the E3 ubiquitin ligase. Pro-BA is a water-soluble, orally administered degrader that significantly inhibits the tumor growth in a xenograft mouse model. The broad applicability of this linker-free PROTAC strategy is further validated through the development of BCR-ABL degrader. Our study introduces a design paradigm for PROTACs, potentially facilitating the advancement of more efficient therapeutic degraders.
PXD060923	40410287	A type III-associated Cas6 functions as a negative regulator of type I-B CRISPR-Cas system in Thermus thermophilus. 	Thermus thermophilus HB27-IB-Cascade-LCMS	CRISPR, Cascade, Thermus thermophilus	CRISPR-Cas systems are small RNA-guided immune systems in prokaryotes. CRISPR RNA (crRNA) provides sequence specificity and programmability, guiding the effector complex to cleave target nucleic acids. Cas6 family ribonucleases can cleave precursor crRNA to generate functional crRNAs in most type I and type III CRISPR-Cas systems. Most existing studies of Cas6 functions are mainly focused on nuclease activity in vitro and Cas6-processed product characterization in vivo. However, in hosts harboring multiple CRISPR systems, the biological functions of the co-occurrence of various Cas6 proteins and their cross-cleavage activity toward different types of crRNAs remain largely unexplored. In this study, we biochemically characterized the cross-cleavage activity of two Cas6 proteins in Thermus thermophilus HB27 and first found that Cas6 could anchor the mature crRNA and interact with Cas5 subunit of type I-B system, revealing the functions of Cas6 to mediate the assembly of type I Cascade complex. We further demonstrated that the type III-associated Cas6 protein could act as a negative regulator by competing with the I-B Cas6 protein during the assembly of type I-B Cascade complex, significantly suppressing the interference activity of type I-B system. Our findings provide an insight into the functional coupling and regulation mechanisms underlying multiple CRISPR-Cas systems.
PXD060229	40410847	Gut microbiota deficiency reduces neutrophil activation and is protective after ischemic stroke. 	Gut microbiota induce neutrophil activation that aggravates stroke pathology	Gut microbiota, Neutrophil, stroke	Neutrophils are readily activated immune cells after ischemic stroke in mice and patients. Still, the impact of gut microbiota on neutrophil activation and its influence on inflammatory brain injury remain undefined. We report that natural microbiota colonization of germ-free (GF) mice induces substantial neutrophil activation and deteriorates stroke pathology. The colonized Ex-GF stroke mice had considerably larger infarct sizes and higher sensorimotor deficits than GF littermates. Furthermore, employing an antibiotic-based mouse model of microbiota deficiency, we demonstrate that gut microbiota depletion induces a juvenile neutrophil phenotype characterized by the upregulation of resting state surface receptors, reduced inflammatory proteins, and levels of circulating NETs. This disarming of neutrophil responses was associated with decreased expression of brain inflammatory genes, vascular thrombus formation, reduced infarct size, and alleviated behavioral deficits. We conclude that gut microbes strongly influence neutrophil activation after stroke and thus directly contribute to stroke severity.
PXD055261	40410902	Characterization of extracellular vesicle-associated DNA and proteins derived from organotropic metastatic breast cancer cells. 	Characterization of DNA and protein content of extracellular vesicles associated with organotropism in metastatic breast cancer	EV-DNA, Extracellular vesicles, biomarkers, cell-free DNA, metastatic breast cancer, organotropism	BACKGROUND: While primary breast cancer (BC) is often effectively managed, metastasis remains the primary cause of BC-related fatalities. Gaps remain in our understanding of the mechanisms regulating cancer cell organotropism with predilection to specific organs. Unraveling mediators of site-specific metastasis could enhance early detection and enable more tailored interventions. Liquid biopsy represents an innovative approach in cancer involving the analysis of biological materials such as circulating tumor DNA and tumor-derived extracellular vesicles (EV) found in body fluids like blood or urine. This offers valuable insights for characterizing and monitoring tumor genomes to advance personalized medicine in metastatic cancers. METHODS: We performed in-depth analyses of EV cargo associated with BC metastasis using eight murine cell line models with distinct metastatic potentials and organotropism to the lung, the bone, the liver, and the brain. We characterized the secretome of these cells to identify unique biomarkers specific to metastatic sites. RESULTS: Small EVs isolated from all cell lines were quantified and validated for established EV markers. Tracking analysis and electron microscopy revealed EV secretion patterns that differed according to cell line. Cell-free (cf)DNA and EV-associated DNA (EV-DNA) were detected from all cell lines with varying concentrations. We detected a TP53 mutation in both EV-DNA and cfDNA. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics analyses identified 698 EV-associated proteins, which clustered according to metastatic site. This analysis highlighted both common EV signatures and proteins involved in cancer progression and organotropism unique to metastatic cell lines. Among these, 327 significantly differentially enriched proteins were quantified with high confidence levels across BC and metastatic BC cells. We found enrichment of specific integrin receptors in metastatic cancer EVs compared to EVs secreted from non-transformed epithelial cells and matched tumorigenic non-metastatic cells. Pathway analyses revealed that EVs derived from parental cancer cells display a cell adhesion signature and are enriched with proteins involved in cancer signaling pathways. CONCLUSION: Taken together, the characterization of EV cargo in a unique model of BC organotropism demonstrated that EV-DNA and EV proteomes were informative of normal and cancer states. This work could help to identify BC biomarkers associated with site-specific metastasis and new therapeutic targets.
PXD052123	40411396	Small Extracellular Vesicles Orchestrate Cisplatin-Induced Ototoxicity: Potential Biomarker and Targets Discovery. 	The cargos and roles of small extracellular vesicles from cochlear explants in cisplatin-induced ototoxicity	Cct2, Cisplatin-induced ototoxicity, Cltc, Hspa8, biomarkers, sEV	Cisplatin-induced ototoxicity remains a clinical dilemma with limited mechanistic understanding and no food and drug administration (FDA)-approved therapies. Despite emerging roles of small extracellular vesicles (sEV) in drug ototoxicity, their molecular cargo profiles and causal roles to cisplatin-induced ototoxicity are unexplored. This study systematically investigates sEV derived from cochlear explants treated with cisplatin (Cis-sEV) and controls (Ctrl-sEV) using multi-omics profiling. Through small RNA sequencing, 83 differentially expressed microRNAs (miRNAs) are identified in Cis-sEV compared to Ctrl-sEV. Notably, mmu-miR-34a-5p, mmu-miR-140-5p, mmu-miR-15b-5p, mmu-miR-25-3p, and mmu-miR-339-5p are significantly upregulation in Cis-sEVs. Predicted target pathways of these differentially expressed miRNAs are enriched in apoptosis, inflammation, and cellular damage, indicating their potential involvement in cisplatin-induced cochlear damage. LC-MS/MS analysis reveals 90 upregulated and 150 downregulated proteins in Cis-sEV, with many involved in damage response. Specifically, CLTC, CCT2, ANXA6, and HSPA8 are uniquely upregulated proteins in Cis-sEV, and CLTC and ANXA6 are exclusively co-localized in hair cells (HCs) post-cisplatin exposure, suggesting that Cis-sEV originate primarily from damaged HCs. Moreover, CLTC in sEV may serve as a potential biomarker for cisplatin-induced ototoxicity as verified in both in vitro and in vivo models. This study provides novel insights into the molecular mechanisms of cisplatin-induced ototoxicity and identifies potential biomarker and therapeutic targets.
PXD053088	40413746	Large-scale purifications reveal yeast and human stress granule cores are heterogeneous particles with complex transcriptomes and proteomes. 	Stress responses in yeast cells	budding yeast, stress	Stress granules are a conserved response of eukaryotic cells to environmental insults. These cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein condensates have hitherto been primarily studied by microscopy, which showed previously that they comprise dense ~200 nm cores embedded in a diffuse shell. We have developed large-scale purifications of budding yeast and mammalian (HEK293T cell) stress granule cores that do not rely on immunoprecipitation of candidate protein constituents. These unbiased preparations reveal that stress granule cores are discrete particles with variable size (average, 135 and 225 nm for yeast and human, respectively) and shape. Proteomics and transcriptomics demonstrate complex composition. The results of hybridization chain reaction fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analyses in HEK293T cells are consistent with stress granule cores having heterogeneous composition, i.e., each stress granule core particle contains only a limited number of mRNA species. Biochemical purification now opens the way to mechanistic analysis of the heterogeneity and complexity of stress granules.
PXD058942	40413779	High-light-inducible proteins control associations between chlorophyll synthase and the Photosystem II biogenesis factor Ycf39. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of chlorophyll synthase-associated auxiliary proteins in Synechocystis photosystem II biogenesis using a FLAG-tag and 15N-labelled internal standards.	ChlG, FLAG-tag, HliC, HliD, Synechocystis, Ycf39, biogenesis, chlorophyll synthase, photosystem II, thylakoid	The biogenesis of Photosystem II is a complicated process requiring numerous auxiliary factors to assist in all steps of its assembly. The cyanobacterial protein Ycf39 forms a stress-induced complex with two small chlorophyll-binding, High-light-inducible proteins C and D (HliC and HliD), and has been reported to participate in the insertion of chlorophyll molecules into the central D1 subunit of Photosystem II. However, how this process is organized remains unknown. Here, we show that Ycf39 and both HliC and HliD can form distinct complexes with chlorophyll synthase (ChlG) in the model cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. We isolated and characterized ChlG complexes from various strains grown under different conditions and provide a mechanistic view of the docking of Ycf39 to ChlG via HliD and the structural role of HliC. In the absence of stress, chlorophyll is produced by the ChlG-HliD2-ChlG complex, which is stabilized by chlorophyll and zeaxanthin molecules bound to the HliD homodimer. The switch to high light leads to stress pressure and greatly elevated synthesis of HliC, resulting in the replacement of HliD homodimers with HliC-HliD heterodimers. Unlike HliD, HliC cannot interact directly with ChlG or Ycf39. Therefore, the original ChlG-HliD2-ChlG complex is converted into a ChlG-HliD-HliC hetero-trimer that presumably binds transiently to Ycf39 and the nascent D1 polypeptide. We speculate that this molecular machinery promotes the delivery of chlorophyll to D1 upon high-light-induced chlorophyll deficiency. The HliD homodimers formed under standard, non-stress growth conditions and attached to ChlG could serve as an emergency chlorophyll reserve.
PXD059717	40413827	New derivatives of benzhydroxamic acid with nematocidal activity against Haemonchus contortus and Caenorhabditis elegans. 	New derivatives of benzhydroxamic acid with nematocidal activity target nematode specific C2-domain containing protein A0A6F7Q0A8	H. contortus, Nematode	Parasitic nematodes cause a wide range of diseases in animals, including humans. However, the efficacy of existing anthelmintic drugs, commonly used to treat these infections, is waning due to the increasing prevalence of drug resistance in nematode populations. This growing challenge underscores the urgent need to discover and develop novel nematocidal drugs that target new molecular pathways. In the present study, 13 novel derivatives of benzhydroxamic acid (OMKs) were designed and synthesized. Their anthelmintic activity was tested in the parasitic nematode Haemonchus contortus (barber's pole worm) and the free-living nematode Caenorhabditis elegans and potential toxicity assessed in mammalian models. Compound OMK211 showed the most promising results. It decreased viability and motility of larval and adult stages of both nematode species and of both drug-sensitive and drug-resistant strains of H. contortus at micromolar concentrations with the highest efficacy in H. contortus adult males (IC50 ~ 1 muM). Moreover, OMK211 was not toxic in mammalians cells in vitro and in mice in vivo. Consequently, thermal proteome profiling analysis was used to infer the putative molecular target of OMK211 in H. contortus. The results revealed C2-domain containing protein A0A6F7Q0A8, encoded by gene HCON_00184,900, as an interacting partner of OMK211. Using advanced structural prediction and docking tools, this protein is considered an interesting putative molecular target of new nematocidal drugs as its orthologs are present in several nematodes but not in mammals. In conclusion, novel derivatives of benzhydroxamic acid represent a promising new class of potential anthelmintics, which deserve further testing.
PXD027570	40414289	LncRNA MALAT1 facilitates HIV-1 replication by upregulation of CHCHD2 and downregulation of IFN-I expression. 	human monocyte-derived macrophages LC-MS/MS	MALAT1, monocyte-derived macrophages	Long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) are effective regulators of both RNA and protein functions throughout cell biology, including viral replication. Emerging studies have shown that lncRNAs activate or inhibit the replication and latency of HIV-1 by regulating different cellular mechanisms. Metastasis-associated lung adenocarcinoma transcript 1 (MALAT1) is an oncogenic lncRNA required for paraspeckle integrity and has been proven to be linked to viral infection. However, the mechanisms by which it influences HIV-1 infection in macrophages remain unclear. In this study, we performed RNA-deep sequencing to compare the profiles of lncRNAs in macrophages with or without HIV-1 and found that MALAT1 was dramatically upregulated in HIV-1-infected macrophages. MALAT1 knockdown inhibited HIV-1 infection, whereas MALAT1 overexpression enhanced viral replication, indicating that MALAT1 promotes HIV-1 replication. We further performed proteomics analysis and found that coiled-coil-helix-coiled-coil-helix domain-containing 2 (CHCHD2) was the most downregulated protein affected by RNAi-mediated knockdown of MALAT1. We next demonstrated that MALAT1 favored HIV-1 replication in a CHCHD2-dependent manner and functioned as a competing endogenous RNA to regulate CHCHD2 expression by sponging miR-145-5p, which could mutually bind the MALAT1 and 3'UTR of chchd2 mRNA. Furthermore, knockdown of endogenous MALAT1 or CHCHD2 with specific small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) promoted the expression of IRF7, and enhanced the promoter activities of interferons-alpha and -beta, increasing their production as well as that of a critical interferon-stimulated gene (ISG), myxovirus resistance protein B (MxB). Moreover, MALAT1 or CHCHD2 knockdown promoted the expression of STAT2 to enhance the production of downstream MxB, which expanded the role of CHCHD2 as a negative regulator of the innate immune response. These findings improve our understanding of MALAT1/miR-145-5p/CHCHD2 pathway regulation of HIV-1 replication in macrophages, providing new insights into potential targeted therapeutic interventions.
PXD056463	40414290	Data-independent Acquisition Proteomics Identifies Plasma Prostaglandin-H2D-isomerase as an Early Diagnostic Biomarker for STEMI and NSTEMI. 	DIA anaylsis for human plasma in MI patitents	DIA, MI, human plasma	Myocardial infarction (MI) including ST-elevated MI (STEMI) and non-ST-elevated MI (NSTEMI), remains a leading cause of death worldwide. This study aimed to identify the early diagnostic biomarkers for STEMI and NSTEMI. Plasma samples from 386 patients was classified into four groups: control (CON) (n=62), unstable angina (UA) (n=62), STEMI (n=182), and NSTEMI (n=80). The protein profiles were analyzed using data-independent acquisition (DIA)-based proteomics to identify differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) followed by bioinformatics analysis and ELISA validation. In STEMI, 93 DAPs were detected. Among the selected DAPs that were further validated in a new cohort of patients, prostaglandin-H2 D-isomerase (PTGDS) was elevated at the earliest onset time of STEMI (T1, 1.45h (95%CI: 1.16-1.73)) or NSTEMI (T1, 1.48h (95%CI: 0.97-1.98)) while the current biomarkers (hs-TnI, Myo, CKMB, and BNP) remained within normal ranges. The analysis of diagnostic indices for plasma PTGDS demonstrated a sensitivity of 63.95% and specificity of 65.38% in STEMI, 70% and 71.15% in NSTEMI. Moreover, AUC was 0.61 (95%CI: 0.53-0.69) in STEMI and 0.78 (95%CI: 0.70-0.86) in NSTEMI. The present study demonstrates that in MI patients, plasma PTGDS increases at an earlier stage of onset time than the current biomarkers with similar sensitivity and specificity. Therefore, PTGDS has high potential to be developed as an early diagnostic biomarker. In particular, PTGDS might be of greater clinical significance for patients suspected for NSTEMI, for which biomarker could be more effective in identifying high-risk patients suffering from MI at early stage.
PXD062954	40414328	Crystal structures of the phosphorylation mimics of Human Cytosolic Branched Chain Aminotransferase. 	LC/MS Analysis of the hBCATc phosphorylation sites	Human BCAT, phosphorylation	The phosphorylation sites of the human cytosolic Branched Chain Aminotransferase (hBCATc) mediated by mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular-signal-regulated-kinase 2 (ERK2, also known as MAPK1) were mapped. The crystal structures of the phosphorylation mimics at T33 and T36 were determined. The modified transaminase activity of these variants was analyzed. Although there were no major conformational changes in the phosphorylation mimics of hBCAT, a regional conformational change at the interdomain loop was observed mainly in mutant T33E. Consistently, when the catalytic turnovers of the T33E and T36E mutants were comparable to the wild type of hBCATc, the KM dropped significantly compared to the wild type, indicating a shift of the substrate binding affinity in the mutants. Taken together, this indicated the phosphorylation of hBCATc by ERK2 is affecting the hBCATc's transaminase activity.
PXD058899	40419858	Structural basis of ubiquitin ligase Nedd4-2 autoinhibition and regulation by calcium and 14-3-3 proteins. 	Structural basis of ubiquitin ligase Nedd4-2 autoinhibition and regulation by calcium and 14-3-3 proteins	14-3-3 proteins, Cryo-EM, H/D exchange, Nedd4-2, ProteomeXchange project tag: Hydrogen Deuterium Exchange (HDX-MS), SAXS, calcium, protein-protein interaction	Nedd4-2 E3 ligase regulates Na(+) homeostasis by ubiquitinating various channels and membrane transporters, including the epithelial sodium channel ENaC. In turn, Nedd4-2 dysregulation leads to various conditions, including electrolytic imbalance, respiratory distress, hypertension, and kidney diseases. However, Nedd4-2 regulation remains mostly unclear. The present study aims at elucidating Nedd4-2 regulation by structurally characterizing Nedd4-2 and its complexes using several biophysical techniques. Our cryo-EM reconstruction shows that the C2 domain blocks the E2-binding surface of the HECT domain. This blockage, ubiquitin-binding exosite masking by the WW1 domain, catalytic C922 blockage and HECT domain stabilization provide the structural basis for Nedd4-2 autoinhibition. Furthermore, Ca(2+)-dependent C2 membrane binding disrupts C2/HECT interactions, but not Ca(2+) alone, whereas 14-3-3 protein binds to a flexible region of Nedd4-2 containing the WW2 and WW3 domains, thereby inhibiting its catalytic activity and membrane binding. Overall, our data provide key mechanistic insights into Nedd4-2 regulation toward fostering the development of strategies targeting Nedd4-2 function.
PXD063137	40422181	Naringenin Targets PI3K p85alpha to Suppress PI3K/AKT Signaling Pathway and Ameliorate Disordered MMP-9 Secretion in Cigarette Smoke Extract-Induced Alveolar Macrophages In Vitro. 	Naringenin targets PI3K p85alpha to suppress PI3K/AKT signaling pathway and ameliorate disordered MMP-9 secretion in cigarette smoke extract-induced alveolar macrophages in vitro	MH-S cells, alveolar macrophage, cigarette, naringenin	BACKGROUND: Naringenin has demonstrated potential therapeutic effects against cigarette smoke-induced lung injury; however, its underlying mechanisms of regulating matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) in alveolar macrophages remain unclear. METHODS: The regulatory mechanisms of naringenin in cigarette smoke extract (CSE)-induced alveolar macrophages were investigated using proteomics, and then, naringenin's targets were further validated by Western blot, molecular docking, molecular dynamics (MD) simulations, cellular thermal shift assay (CETSA), and enzyme activity assay. RESULTS: The proteomics revealed that the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway might play a crucial role in naringenin's inhibition of MMP-9. Western blot analysis confirmed that naringenin significantly inhibited CSE-upregulated PI3K/AKT signaling pathway and reduced MMP-9 expression in MH-S cells. Notably, the PI3K activator 740Y-P reversed naringenin's effects on MMP-9. Additionally, molecular docking, MD simulations, and CETSA identified PI3K p85alpha as the potential binding site for naringenin, and naringenin markedly inhibited CSE-induced PI3K activity. In in vitro experiments, naringenin inhibiting MMP-9 secretion in alveolar macrophages contributed to alleviating elastin and E-cadherin damage in alveolar epithelial cells. Furthermore, naringenin effectively suppressed CSE-induced MMP-9 secretion in primary mouse alveolar macrophages and human THP-1-differentiated macrophages. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings revealed that naringenin, a potential candidate for treating smoking-induced lung injury, directly targeted PI3K p85alpha, inhibiting PI3K activity and MMP-9 expression in CSE-induced alveolar macrophages via suppressing the PI3K/AKT signaling pathway.
PXD063259	40422699	Integrated Amino Acid Profiling and 4D-DIA Proteomics Reveal Protein Quality Divergence and Metabolic Adaptation in Cordyceps Species. 	Integrated amino acid profiling and 4D-DIA proteomics reveal protein quality divergence and metabolic adaptation in Cordyceps species	4D-DIA proteomic, Cordyceps cicadae, Cordyceps militaris, Cordyceps sinensis, amino acid	To explore the differences in protein quality among classic medicinal entomopathogenic fungi and to evaluate their metabolic adaptability, we analyzed the amino acid composition and proteomic characteristics of Cordyceps sinensis (CS), Cordyceps militaris (CM), and Cordyceps cicadae (CC). Quantitative analysis showed CM contained the highest crude protein and lysine, methionine, threonine, and valine. CS adapted to high-altitude hypoxia and exhibited lower protein but elevated leucine, isoleucine, and histidine contents, which may contribute to membrane stabilization and oxidative stress resistance. CC displayed higher non-essential amino acids such as arginine, proline, and tyrosine, reflecting active nitrogen metabolism. Four-dimensional data-independent acquisition (4D-DIA) proteomics identified 495 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). Compared with CS, CM and CC displayed upregulated glutamate oxaloacetate transaminases 2 (GOT2), glutamate dehydrogenase (GDH), and argininosuccinate synthase 1 (ASS1) coordinately regulate nitrogen flux through the alanine-aspartate-glutamate metabolic network and urea cycle, supporting metabolic intermediate replenishment for energy metabolism. The upregulation of branched-chain keto acid dehydrogenase E1 subunit alpha (BCKDHA) and acyl-CoA dehydrogenase short/branched chain (ACADSB) in CM and CC facilitated the integration of branched-chain amino acid catabolism with the TCA cycle, explaining species-specific differences in protein content. This study presents the first application of 4D-DIA proteomics to compare CS, CM, and CC, providing insights into quality divergence mechanisms in medicinal fungi.
PXD060786	40423998	Development of an Adaptive, Economical, and Easy-to-Use SP3-TMT Automated Sample Preparation Workflow for Quantitative Proteomics. 	Development of an Adaptive, Economical, and Easy-to-Use SP3-TMT Automated Sample Preparation Workflow for Quantitative Proteomics	Automation, Sample Preperation, Unfolded Protein Response and Tandem Mass Tags	Liquid handling robots have been developed to automate various steps of the bottom-up proteomics workflow, however, protocols for the generation of isobarically labeled peptides remain limited. Existing methods often require costly specialty devices and are constrained by fixed workflows. To address this, we developed a cost-effective, flexible, automated sample preparation protocol for TMT-labeled peptides using the Biomek i5 liquid handler (Beckman Coulter). Our approach leverages single-pot solid-phase-enhanced sample preparation with paramagnetic beads to streamline protein cleanup and digestion. The protocol also allows for adjustment of trypsin concentration and peptide-to-TMT ratio to increase throughput and reduce costs, respectively. We compared our automated and manual 18-plex TMT-Pro labeling workflows by monitoring select protein markers of the unfolded protein response in pharmacologically activatable, engineered cell lines. Overall, the automated protocol demonstrated equivalent performance in peptide and protein identifications, digestion and labeling efficiency, and an enhancement in the dynamic range of TMT quantifications. Compared to the manual method, the Biomek protocol significantly reduces hands-on time and minimizes sample handling errors. The 96-well format additionally allows for the number of TMT reactions to be scaled up quickly without a significant increase in user interaction. Our optimized automated workflow enhances throughput, reproducibility, and cost-effectiveness, making it a valuable tool for high-throughput proteomics studies.
PXD059562	40424317	Proteomes of aging and omega-3 supplementation in rat soleus skeletal muscle. 	Proteomes of Aging and Omega-3 Supplementation in Rat Soleus Skeletal Muscle	Omega-3 fatty acids, aging, skeletal muscle	Aging is a pan-organ process with an intricate and multimodal nature. Deciphering the aging phenomenon is complex, yet recent attention is analyzing the potential benefits of non-invasive life adjustments to achieve healthy aging. Omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (FA) have emerged as promising nutraceuticals for a plethora of different medical conditions. In the current study we conducted an in-depth, bottom-up, global, shotgun proteomic study (LC-MS/MS) investigating both the effects of aging on skeletal muscle and the potential alterations due to omega-3 FA. Sprague Dawley rats were fed different diets and divided into four groups (n = 5 per group): adult controls (7-8 months, ADCTL); aged controls (22 months, AGCTL); and adult (ADomega3) and aged (AGomega3) rats fed an omega-3 supplemented diet. Among the identified 30,000 soleus proteins, our proteomic analysis identified 149 proteins differentially expressed in aging; 207 proteins with aging, but fed omega-3 FA; and 105 and 26 proteins, respectively, when aged and adult rats were fed omega-3 FA. Aging alone (ADCTL/AGCTL) affects many processes: carbohydrate and lipid metabolisms, proteostasis, mRNA processing and sarcomeric proteins. With FA supplementation and aging (ADomega3/AGomega3) similar processes were affected, but increased chromatin-related protein abundances (methylation or histone deacetylation) were observed in AGomega3; while proteins involved in OXPHOS and mitochondrial homeostasis, including mTOR, were more represented in ADomega3 rats. Supplementation with FA had a greater effect in aged rats (AGCTL/AGomega3) than in adult ones (ADCTL/ADomega3). In the ADCTL/ADomega3 comparison, modest changes were seen, whereas in the AGCTL/AGomega3 comparisons DNA damage repair increased and protein synthesis and degradation were observed. Further, a potential link to enhancement of myogenesis is also evident. The data presented in this work suggest potential beneficial and protective effects of omega3 FA supplementation in the soleus muscle, as well as some potential molecular mechanisms of action.
PXD041902	40425534	WNK1 signalling regulates amino acid transport and mTORC1 activity to sustain acute myeloid leukaemia growth. 	WNK1 signalling regulates amino acid transport and mTORC1 activity to sustain AML growth	AML, WNK1, mTOR, phosphoproteomics	The lack of curative therapies for acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) remains an ongoing challenge despite recent advances in the understanding of the molecular basis of the disease. Here we identify the WNK1-OXSR1/STK39 pathway as a previously uncharacterised dependency in AML. We show that genetic depletion and pharmacological inhibition of WNK1 or its downstream phosphorylation targets OXSR1 and STK39 strongly reduce cell proliferation and induce apoptosis in leukaemia cells in vitro and in vivo. Furthermore, we show that the WNK1-OXSR1/STK39 pathway controls mTORC1 signalling via regulating amino acid uptake through a mechanism involving the phosphorylation of amino acid transporters, such as SLC38A2. Our findings underscore an important role of the WNK1-OXSR1/STK39 pathway in regulating amino acid uptake and driving AML progression.
PXD019357	40425563	Depletion-dependent activity-based protein profiling using SWATH/DIA-MS detects serine hydrolase lipid remodeling in lung adenocarcinoma progression. 	Activity-based SWATH/DIA proteomic screen enables sensitive differential detection of serine hydrolases from surgically resected OCT-embedded primary lung adenocarcinoma	ABPP, SWATH-MS, lung adenocarcinoma tissue	Systematic inference of enzyme activity in human tumors is key to understanding cancer progression and resistance to therapy. However, standard protein or transcript abundances are blind to the activity status of the measured enzymes, regulated, for example, by active-site amino acid mutations or post-translational protein modifications. Current methods for activity-based proteome profiling (ABPP), which combine mass spectrometry (MS) with chemical probes, quantify the fraction of enzymes that are catalytically active. Here, we describe depletion-dependent ABPP (dd-ABPP) combined with automated SWATH/DIA-MS, which simultaneously determines three molecular layers of studied enzymes: i) catalytically active enzyme fractions, ii) enzyme and background protein abundances, and iii) context-dependent enzyme-protein interactions. We demonstrate the utility of the method in advanced lung adenocarcinoma (LUAD) by monitoring nearly 4000 protein groups and 200 serine hydrolases (SHs) in tumor and adjacent tissue sections routinely collected for patient histopathology. The activity profiles of 23 SHs and the abundance of 59 proteins associated with these enzymes retrospectively classified aggressive LUAD. The molecular signature revealed accelerated lipoprotein depalmitoylation via palmitoyl(protein)hydrolase activities, further confirmed by excess palmitate and its metabolites. The approach is universal and applicable to other enzyme families with available chemical probes, providing clinicians with a biochemical rationale for tumor sample classification.
PXD062707	40425566	Chondrocyte fatty acid oxidation drives osteoarthritis via SOX9 degradation and epigenetic regulation. 	Proteomic and Acetylome Alterations in Obesity-related Osteoarthritic Mouse Cartilage	Acetylome	Osteoarthritis is the most prevalent age-related degenerative joint disease and is closely linked to obesity. However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. Here we show that altered lipid metabolism in chondrocytes, particularly enhanced fatty acid oxidation (FAO), contributes to osteoarthritis progression. Excessive FAO causes acetyl-CoA accumulation, thereby altering protein-acetylation profiles, where the core FAO enzyme HADHA is hyperacetylated and activated, reciprocally boosting FAO activity and exacerbating OA progression. Mechanistically, elevated FAO reduces AMPK activity, impairs SOX9 phosphorylation, and ultimately promotes its ubiquitination-mediated degradation. Additionally, acetyl-CoA orchestrates epigenetic modulation, affecting multiple cellular processes critical for osteoarthritis pathogenesis, including the transcriptional activation of MMP13 and ADAMTS7. Cartilage-targeted delivery of trimetazidine, an FAO inhibitor and AMPK activator, demonstrates superior efficacy in a mouse model of metabolism-associated post-traumatic osteoarthritis. These findings suggest that targeting chondrocyte-lipid metabolism may offer new therapeutic strategies for osteoarthritis.
PXD063156	40425583	Arginase 1 drives mitochondrial cristae remodeling and PANoptosis in ischemia/hypoxia-induced vascular dysfunction. 	Arg1 drives mitochondrial cristae remodeling and PANoptosis in ischemia/hypoxia-induced vascular dysfunction	Arg1, Ischemic/hypoxic injury, Mitochondria, Vascular dysfunction, mtDNA	Ischemic/hypoxic injury significantly damages vascular function, detrimentally impacting patient outcomes. Changes in mitochondrial structure and function are closely associated with ischemia/hypoxia-induced vascular dysfunction. The mechanism of this process remains elusive. Using rat models of ischemia and hypoxic vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), we combined transmission electron microscopy, super-resolution microscopy, and metabolic analysis to analyze the structure and function change of mitochondrial cristae. Multi-omics approaches revealed arginase 1 (Arg1) upregulation in ischemic VSMCs, confirmed by in vivo and in vitro knockout models showing Arg1's protective effects on mitochondrial cristae, mitochondrial and vascular function, and limited the release of mtDNA. Mechanistically, Arg1 interacting with Mic10 led to mitochondrial cristae remodeling, together with hypoxia-induced VDAC1 lactylation resulting in the opening of MPTP and release of mtDNA of VSMCs. The released mtDNA led to PANoptosis of VSMCs via activation of the cGAS-STING pathway. ChIP-qPCR results demonstrated that lactate-mediated Arg1 up-regulation was due to H3K18la upregulation. VSMCs targeted nano-material PLGA-PEI-siRNA@PM-alpha-SMA (NP-siArg1) significantly improved vascular dysfunction. This study uncovers a new mechanism of vascular dysfunction following ischemic/hypoxic injury: a damaging positive feedback loop mediated by lactate-regulated Arg1 expression between the nucleus and mitochondria, leading to mitochondria cristae disorder and mtDNA release, culminating in VSMCs PANoptosis. Targeting VSMCs Arg1 inhibition offers a potential therapeutic strategy to alleviate ischemia/hypoxia-induced vascular impairments.
PXD051013	40427419	Time Course of Plasma Proteomic and Oxylipin Changes Induced by LPS Challenge and Modulated by Antioxidant Supplementation in a Randomized Controlled Trial. 	Lipid class-specific kinetics of plasma fatty acids, oxylipins, endocannabinoids, lysophospholipids and bile acids upon a lipopolysaccharide challenge of healthy humans and their modulation by anti-oxidative supplements	Clinical study, anti-oxidative supplements, inflammation, lipid mediators, lipidomics, lipopolysaccharide, plasma, time series analysis	Systemic molecular responses to pathogen-associated molecular patterns and their modulation by antioxidants are poorly understood in humans. Here, we present a two-stage clinical interventional study in healthy humans challenged with lipopolysaccharide. In the first step, the kinetics of inflammatory modulators within 8 h were investigated by plasma proteomics and lipidomics. In a second step, the effects of a placebo-controlled antioxidant intervention on the individual responses prior to another lipopolysaccharide challenge were determined. Plasma proteomics revealed an early involvement of the endothelium and platelets, followed by the induction of liver-derived acute phase proteins and an innate immune cell response. Untargeted lipidomics revealed an early release of fatty acids and taurocholic acid, followed by complex regulatory events exerted by oxylipins. The consistent lipopolysaccharide-induced downregulation of lysophospholipids suggested the involvement of the Lands cycle, and the downregulation of deoxycholic acid reinforced emerging links between the inflammasome and bile acids. Groups of molecules with similar kinetics to lipopolysaccharide challenge were observed to share precursors, synthesizing enzymes or cellular origin. Dietary antioxidant supplementation prior to lipopolysaccharide challenge had no detectable effect on protein kinetics but significantly downregulated pro-inflammatory sphingosine-1-phosphate and increased levels of oxylipins, 20-HEPE, and 22-HDoHE, which have been described to facilitate the resolution of inflammation. The present study identified a complex network of lipid mediators deregulated in plasma upon lipopolysaccharide challenge and highlighted the role of platelets, endothelial cells, and erythrocytes as potential inflammatory modulators. While dietary antioxidant supplementation hardly affected the initiation of inflammation, it may exert its effects supporting the resolution of inflammation.
PXD062101	40427667	Mapping the Interactome of KRAS and Its G12C/D/V Mutants by Integrating TurboID Proximity Labeling with Quantitative Proteomics. 	Mapping the Interactome of KRAS and Its G12C/D/V Mutants by Integrating TurboID Proximity Labeling with Quantitative Proteomics	KRAS G12 mutants, KRAS interactome, Quantitative ProteomicsMetabolic reprogramming, TurboID proximity-labeling	KRAS mutations are major drivers of human cancers, yet how distinct mutations rewire protein interactions and metabolic pathways to promote tumorigenesis remains poorly understood. To address this, we systematically mapped the protein interaction networks of wild-type KRAS and three high-frequency oncogenic mutants (G12C, G12D, and G12V) using TurboID proximity labeling coupled with quantitative proteomics. Bioinformatic analysis revealed mutant-specific binding partners and metabolic pathway alterations, including significant enrichment in insulin signaling, reactive oxygen species regulation, and glucose/lipid metabolism. These changes collectively drive tumor proliferation and immune evasion. Comparative analysis identified shared interactome shifts across all mutants: reduced binding to LZTR1, an adaptor for KRAS degradation, and enhanced recruitment of LAMTOR1, a regulator of mTORC1-mediated growth signaling. Our multi-dimensional profiling establishes the first comprehensive map of KRAS-mutant interactomes and links specific mutations to metabolic reprogramming. These findings provide mechanistic insights into KRAS-driven malignancy and highlight LZTR1 and LAMTOR1 as potential therapeutic targets. The study further lays a foundation for developing mutation-specific strategies to counteract KRAS oncogenic signaling.
PXD055521	40429728	Phosphoproteomics Reveals L1CAM-Associated Signaling Networks in High-Grade Serous Ovarian Carcinoma: Implications for Radioresistance and Tumorigenesis. 	Analysis of L1CAM-regulated signaling pathways and cellular responses to anti-L1CAM radioimmunotherapy in human ovarian cancer cells	Human ovarian cancer, L1CAM, TMT, phosphoproteomics, radioimmunotherapy	Quantitative phosphoproteomics enables the comprehensive analysis of signaling pathways driven by overexpressed cancer receptors, revealing the molecular mechanisms that underpin tumor progression and therapy resistance. The glycoprotein L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM) is overexpressed in high-grade serous ovarian carcinoma (HGSOC) and plays a crucial role in carcinogenesis by regulating cancer stem cell properties. Here, CRISPR-Cas9-mediated knockout of L1CAM in ovarian cancer OVCAR8 and OVCAR4 cells significantly impaired anchor-independent growth in soft agar assays and reduced clonogenic survival following external beam irradiation. In vivo, L1CAM knockout decreased cancer stem cell frequency and significantly decreased tumorigenicity. To uncover L1CAM-regulated signaling networks, we employed quantitative phosphoproteomics and proteomics. Bioinformatics analyses and validation studies revealed L1CAM-associated pathways that contribute to radioresistance through DNA repair processes and mammalian target or rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1)-mediated signaling. In conclusion, our study established a link between L1CAM-dependent tumorigenesis and radioresistance, both hallmarks of cancer stemness, with phosphorylation of key proteins involved in DNA damage response. This study further emphasizes the value of quantitative phosphoproteomics in cancer research, showcasing its ability to enhance understanding of cancer progression and therapy resistance.
PXD062648	40431657	Transcriptomic and Proteomic Profiling of Rabbit Kidney Cells Infected with Equine Herpesvirus 8. 	Proteomic Profiling of Rabbit Kidney Cells Infected with Equine Herpesvirus 8	EHV-8, RK-13	The present study investigated the host cell response to EHV-8 infection in rabbit kidney (RK-13) cells through transcriptomic and proteomic approaches. At 24 h post-infection, a total of 2118 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified, with 1338 upregulated and 780 downregulated. At 48 h, 7388 DEGs were detected, with 4342 upregulated and 3046 downregulated genes. Proteomic analysis revealed 932 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) at 24 h (364 upregulated and 568 downregulated) and 3866 DEPs at 48 h (2285 upregulated and 1581 downregulated). Of these, 237 upregulated and 336 downregulated proteins were common across both time points. Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analysis indicated that the majority of DEGs and DEPs were enriched in key inflammation-related pathways, notably the TNF and NF-kappaB signaling pathways. Validation of the transcriptomic and proteomic data was performed using RT-PCR and parallel reaction monitoring (PRM), respectively, and confirmed consistent trends for TNFR1, NF-kappaB p65, and MAP3K8, as reported in the transcriptomic and proteomic screening. These findings suggest that EHV-8 infection may modulate host immune responses by activating the TNF signaling pathway. However, given that RK-13 cells may not fully replicate viral-host interactions in equine species, further in vivo studies in horses and donkeys are required to provide a more comprehensive understanding of the viral pathogenesis in these animals.
PXD036991	40432843	Label-free quantitative proteomics of gastric high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia. 	Label-free quantitative proteomics of gastric high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia	gastric cancer, gastric high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia, label-free	Early detection and diagnosis are key to improving the survival rate and reducing the fatality rate linked to gastric cancer. The precancerous lesion of gastric cancer is referred to as gastric high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia (HGIN). Both the sensitivity and specificity of current biomarkers that aid in the diagnosis of gastric HGIN are still relatively low. Furthermore, proteomic data on gastric HGIN are still scarce. The present study aimed to explore candidate protein biomarkers for gastric HGIN screening with proteomics and bioinformatics technology. A total of 10 serum samples were collected and categorized into two groups, i.e., the gastric HGIN and the healthy control groups. Label-free quantification in conjunction with liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry was employed to identify the probable biomarkers for gastric HGIN. Furthermore, differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were quantified by proteomics analysis. In total, 1,192 distinct serum proteins were discovered between the gastric HGIN group and the healthy control group. DEPs were identified in the further analyses, utilizing a threshold of a 1.5-fold difference in expression level (P<0.05) in comparison with the control group. There were 18 upregulated and 12 downregulated proteins in the gastric HGIN group in comparison with the control group. Bioinformatics analyses were performed using Gene Ontology and KEGG pathway enrichment analyses. The GO analysis revealed that the DEPs were enriched in biological processes such as 'cellular', 'biological regulation', 'multicellular organismal', 'developmental' and 'reaction to stimulus processes', localized to 'cell', 'intracellular' and 'protein-containing complex', and involved in molecular functions such as 'molecular function modulator', 'binding' and 'catalytic activity'. The KEGG pathway enrichment analysis manifested that the DEPs were predominantly enriched in 'antigen processing and presentation', 'diabetic cardiomyopathy', 'Epstein-Barr virus infection', 'herpes simplex virus 1 infection', 'human immunodeficiency virus 1 infection' and 'human cytomegalovirus infection'. In conclusion, the present data provide more biological information for the formation of gastric HGIN and clues for further research on the pathogenesis of early gastric cancer.
PXD063375	40433307	Chronic alcohol intake disrupts cytochrome P450 enzyme activity in alcoholic fatty liver disease: insights into metabolic alterations and therapeutic targets. 	Long term effects of ethanol intake on the CYP450 enzyme system in the liver of AFLD rats	Alcoholic fatty liver	Introduction: Alcoholic fatty liver disease (AFLD) is a common consequence of chronic alcohol consumption, characterized by lipid accumulation and oxidative stress in the liver. Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes play essential roles in metabolizing alcohol and other compounds. However, the specific long-term effects of alcohol on these enzymes remain unclear. Methods: This study the examines influence of prolonged ethanol exposure on CYP450 activity and expression in AFLD using a rat model. Key enzymes such as CYP2E1, CYP2D6, and CYP3A1 were assessed in relation to lipid accumulation and oxidative stress. Results: Significant alterations were identified in the expression and activity of CYP2E1, CYP2D6, and CYP3A1, which were associated with increased lipid accumulation and oxidative stress in the liver. Additionally, the expression of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) was elevated, suggesting that chronic alcohol intake may impact drug transport and excretion. Discussion: These findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of AFLD and highlight the potential of CYP450 modulation as a therapeutic target. By elucidating how long-term ethanol exposure disrupts hepatic CYP450 enzyme profiles, this research lays the groundwork for developing personalized therapeutic strategies to improve outcomes for patients with AFLD.
PXD055360	40433923	Antioxidant supplementation blunts the proteome response to 3 weeks of sprint interval training preferentially in human type 2 muscle fibres. 	Proteomic analysis reveals blunted effect of sprint interval training by vitamin C and E treatment in both type 1 and type 2 muscle fibres	Muscle fibers, sprint interval training	Sprint interval training (SIT) is a time-efficient type of endurance training that involves large type 2 muscle fibre recruitment. Effective antioxidant supplementation may mitigate positive training adaptations by limiting the oxidant challenge. Our aim was to test whether SIT affects type 2 more than type 1 muscle fibres, and whether the muscular training response is mitigated by antioxidant treatment. Young men performed three weekly SIT sessions (4-6 x 30 s all-out cycling) for 3 weeks while treated with antioxidants (vitamin C, 1 g day(-1); vitamin E, 235 mg day(-1)) or placebo. Vastus lateralis biopsies were taken to measure (i) activation of genes for reactive oxygen/nitrogen species (ROS) sensors and inflammatory mediators with quantitative RT-PCR and (ii) fibre type-specific proteome adaptations using MS-based proteomics. Vitamin treatment decreased the upregulation of genes for ROS sensors and inflammatory regulators during the first SIT session. The 3 weeks of SIT caused generally larger proteome adaptations in type 2 than in type 1 fibres, and this included larger increases in abundance of proteins involved in mitochondrial energy production. Vitamin treatment blunted the SIT-induced proteome adaptations, whereas it did not affect the training-induced improvement in maximal cycling performance. In conclusion, (i) the large type 2 fibre recruitment and resulting proteome adaptations are instrumental to the effectiveness of SIT and (ii) antioxidant supplementation counteracts positive muscular adaptations to SIT, which would blunt any improvement in submaximal endurance performance, whereas it does not affect the improvement in maximal cycling performance, where O2 delivery to muscle would be limiting. KEY POINTS: Sprint interval training (SIT) is a time-efficient type of endurance training that involves large recruitment of fast-twitch muscle fibres. Treatment with antioxidants may mitigate the positive effects of endurance training. Fibre type-specific proteomics performed on muscle biopsies obtained from young men before and after 3 weeks of SIT showed larger training effects in fast- than in slow-twitch fibres. Antioxidant treatment in the form of vitamin C and E pills counteracted the positive muscular adaptations to the 3 weeks of SIT. These results increase our understanding of why SIT is an effective endurance training regime and provide further evidence against the common belief that antioxidant supplements are beneficial in a physical exercise context.
PXD049296	40434347	Tear Proteomic Analysis From Offspring of Keratoconus Patients: New Insights Into Corneal Biomechanical Weakness and Disease Risk Stages. 	Proteomic Analysis of Tear Fluid from the Offspring of Keratoconus Patients Toward Novel Biomarkers and Pathways Associated with Corneal Biomechanical Weakness and Disease Susceptibility.	Biomarkers, Keratoconus, Offspring, Tear fluid	Purpose: To analyze the tear proteome of keratoconus offspring (O-KC) and assess the molecular drivers underlying corneal biomechanical weakening at KC-risk stages. Methods: This cross-sectional study included 80 O-KC young participants and 42 controls without a KC family history. Based on the corneal biomechanical behavior, O-KC eyes were classified as low, moderate, and high-risk of KC development (O-KC-LR, O-KC-MR, O-KC-HR). Tear fluid was extracted using Schirmer strips, and the proteomic profile was mapped using LC-MS/MS. Bioinformatic tools were used to determine the dysregulated protein's biological implications. The sensitivity-specificity of each biomarker for differentiating between controls and O-KC groups was determined. Logistic regression analysis (LRA) identified the optimal subset of predictors for modeling each biomechanical condition's probability. Results: Twenty-nine percent of O-KC eyes showed moderate/high alterations in corneal biomechanical behavior. Fifteen proteins were dysregulated in the tear samples of O-KC groups compared to controls (P < 0.05). Dysregulated proteins were associated with oxidative stress, cell adhesion, cytoskeleton organization, and mechanotransduction paths such as RhoA, mTOR, or E-cadherin/N-cadherin signaling. LRA determined three protein panels with high sensitivity-specificity for discriminating between the control and O-KC groups with different biomechanical risks. Conclusions: This study revealed promising new biomarkers for early detection of KC risk. Oxidative stress and cellular structural alterations seem to begin long before clinical signs and even before the biomechanical alterations can be detected with current clinical tools. Understanding how an initial imbalance of oxidative stress affects cellular mechanobiology is critical to developing new therapeutic strategies for the early treatment of KC.
PXD058618	40436319	Mechanisms of USP18 specificity towards ISG15 revealed by paralog sequence analysis comparison. 	USP18 interactor and PTM mass spectrometry	Deubiquitinase, ISG15, USP18, USP41, deISGylation	The ubiquitin-like protein ISG15 is activated in response to type 1 interferons and its conjugation to proteins regulates the response to bacterial and viral infection. Its subsequent deconjugation, which is broadly achieved by the human enzyme USP18, critically controls interferon signaling and the defense against pathogens. However, the molecular determinants underlying USP18 specificity for ISG15 remain elusive. To identify such features, we took advantage of USP18's paralog USP41, which has a strikingly similar catalytic domain and yet lacks deISGylating activity. By performing a comparative sequence analysis coupled with biochemical and enzymatic assays, we identified hallmarks specific to USP18 that are critical for its enzymatic function and ISG15 recognition. Accordingly, AlphaFold-guided analysis suggests that these features mediate USP18-ISG15 interactions, underlining their importance for deISGylating activities. Thus, our results reveal important mechanistic insights into USP18-mediated ISG15 hydrolysis and could inform the development of deISGylase inhibitors relevant to infection and other interferon-related diseases.
PXD062760	40436857	N-glycosylated LTbetaR increases the Th17/Treg cell ratio in liver cancer by blocking RORC ubiquitination and FOXP3 transcription. 	N-glycosylated LTbetaR increases the Th17/Treg cell ratio in liver cancer by blocking RORC ubiquitination and FOXP3 transcription	LTbetaR, PELI1. TRAF3, SMURF1, Th17, Treg, liver cancer	LTbetaR-overexpressing CAR-T cells have demonstrated surprising effectiveness against solid tumors, exhibiting strong anti-exhaustion and proliferation capabilities. However, the role of LTbetaR in CD4(+) T cell differentiation and anti-tumor activity remains unclear. In this study, we employed primary or subcutaneous mouse hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) models and flow cytometry to study the impact of conditional knock-in of Ltbr on CD4(+) T cell differentiation and response, particularly the Th17/Treg cell ratio, and its influence on HCC progression. Immunoprecipitation, immunoblotting, RT-qPCR, molecular docking, and Chromatin Immunoprecipitation-qPCR were performed to investigate the molecular mechanism of CD4(+) T cell differentiation. Adeno-associated virus-modified T cells were introduced into patient-derived orthotopic xenograft (PDOX) model to assess the combined impact of LTbetaR and glycolysis inhibitors on the Th17/Treg cell differentiation. We found that LTbetaR reduced PELI1 expression, preventing TRAF3 protein degradation in Th17 cells. TRAF3 then competed with RORC for SMURF1 binding, enhancing RORC stability and Th17 cell differentiation. LTbetaR also blocked PRDM1 expression, delaying Foxp3 transcription and Treg cell infiltration. Additionally, N-glycosylation supported the stability of LTbetaR by protecting it from ubiquitination. From a therapeutic perspective, glycolysis inhibitors helped LTbetaR balance the proportion of Th17/Treg cells in PDOX model to inhibit tumor growth. In conclusion, our findings indicated that LTbetaR N-glycosylation prevented RORC ubiquitination and Foxp3 transcription, raising the Th17/Treg cell ratio and hindering HCC progression.
PXD061028	40438682	Aurintricarboxylic acid inhibits the malignant phenotypes of drug-resistant cells via translation regulation. 	Proteomic changes of tumor drug-resistant cells after drug treatment	aurintricarboxylic acid, ribosome-nascent-chain complex (RNC), tumor drug-resistance, whole proteome	Genome instability, a hallmark of cancer, leads to endless mutations that eventually cause drug resistance against almost all chemotherapy drugs. This poses a significant obstacle to the success of cancer treatments. Here, we report that aurintricarboxylic acid (ATCA) effectively suppresses the malignant phenotypes, including proliferation, migration, invasion, and clone formation, of cancer cells of multiple cancers, including cisplatin-resistant lung cancer cells, paclitaxel-resistant lung cancer cells, and doxorubicin-resistant breast cancer cells. Interestingly, ATCA does not cause acute cytotoxicity. Proteome analysis of the whole proteome and nascent chains showed that ATCA reduced translation initiation and thus reduced the abundance of the highly abundant respiratory chain complex. This lowered the potential of the mitochondrial membrane and thus restricted the energy production. This principle could be hardly circumvented by cancer cells and thus may serve as a promising and universal candidate for a second-line therapeutic agent to control cancer progression after drug resistance.
PXD052938	40438929	Multiomic Landscape of Extracellular Vesicles in Human Carotid Atherosclerotic Plaque Reveals Endothelial Communication Networks. 	Carotid endarterectomy tissue and tissue-derived extracellular vesicle proteomes from symptomatic and asymptomatic patients	Atheroslerosis, Cardiovascular, Carotid, Extracellular Vesicles	BACKGROUND: Carotid atherosclerosis is orchestrated by cell-cell communication that drives progression along a clinical continuum (asymptomatic to symptomatic). Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are cell-derived nanoparticles representing a new paradigm in cellular communication. Little is known about their biological cargo, cellular origin/destination, and functional roles in human atherosclerotic plaque. METHODS: EVs were enriched via size exclusion chromatography from human carotid endarterectomy samples dissected into paired plaque and marginal zones (symptomatic n=16, asymptomatic n=13). EV-cargos were assessed via whole transcriptome microRNA-sequencing and mass spectrometry-based proteomics. EV multiomics was integrated with bulk and single-cell RNA-sequencing datasets to predict EV cellular origin and ligand-receptor interactions, and multimodal biological network integration of EV-cargo was completed. EV functional impact was assessed with endothelial angiogenesis assays. RESULTS: Carotid plaques contained more EVs than adjacent marginal zones, with differential enrichment for EV-microRNAs and EV-proteins in key atherogenic pathways. EV cellular origin analysis suggested that tissue EV signatures originated from endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and immune cells. Integrated tissue vesiculomics and single-cell RNA-sequencing indicated complex EV-vascular cell communication that changed with disease progression and plaque vulnerability (ie, symptomatic disease). Plaques from symptomatic patients, but not asymptomatic patients, were characterized by increased involvement of endothelial pathways and more complex ligand-receptor interactions, relative to their marginal zones. Plaque EVs were predicted to mediate communication with endothelial cells. Pathway enrichment analysis delineated an endothelial signature with roles in angiogenesis and neovascularization, well-known indices of plaque instability. This was validated functionally, wherein human carotid symptomatic plaque EVs induced sprouting angiogenesis in comparison to their matched marginal zones. CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that EVs may drive dynamic changes in plaques through EV-vascular cell communication and effector functions that typify vulnerability to rupture, precipitating symptomatic disease. The discovery of endothelial-directed angiogenic processes mediated by EVs creates new therapeutic avenues for atherosclerosis.
PXD058153	40439173	Improvements in Glycoproteomics through Architecture Changes to the Orbitrap Tribrid MS Platform. 	Improvements in glycoproteomics through architecture changes to the Orbitrap Tribrid MS platform	Glycoproteomics, N-glycopeptides, O-glycopeptides, electron transfer dissociation, fragmentation, tandem mass spectrometry	Hardware changes introduced on the Orbitrap Ascend Tribrid MS include dual ion routing multipoles (IRMs) that enable parallelized accumulation, dissociation, and Orbitrap mass analysis of three separate ion populations. The balance between these instrument functions is especially important in glycoproteomics, where complexities of glycopeptide fragmentation necessitate large precursor ion populations and long ion accumulation times for quality MS/MS spectra. To compound matters further, dissociation methods like electron transfer dissociation (ETD) that benefit glycopeptide characterization come with overhead times that slow down scan acquisition. Here we explored how the Orbitrap Ascend's dual IRM architecture can improve glycopeptide analysis, with a focus on O-glycopeptide characterization using ETD with supplemental collisional activation (EThcD). We found that parallelization of ion accumulation and EThcD fragmentation increased scan acquisition speed without sacrificing spectral quality, subsequently increasing the number of O-glycopeptides identified relative to analyses on the Orbitrap Eclipse (i.e., the previous generation Tribrid MS). Additionally, we systematically evaluated ion-ion reaction times and supplemental activation energies used for EThcD to understand how best to utilize acquisition time. We observed that shorter-than-expected ion-ion reaction times minimized scan overhead time without sacrificing c/z*-fragment ion generation and that higher supplemental collision energies can generate combinations of glycan-retaining and glycan-neutral-loss peptide backbone fragments that benefit O-glycopeptide identification. We also saw improvements in N-glycopeptide analysis using collision-based dissociation, especially with methods using faster scan speeds. Overall, these data show how architectural changes to the Tribrid MS platform benefit glycoproteomic experiments by parallelizing scan functions to minimize overhead time and improve sensitivity.
PXD040221	40440366	Enamel proteins reveal biological sex and genetic variability in southern African Paranthropus. 	Enamel proteins reveal biological sex and intrataxon variability within Paranthropus robustus	Enamel, Palaeoproteomics, dental enamel, human evolution, sequence reconstruction	Paranthropus robustus is a morphologically well-documented Early Pleistocene hominin species from southern Africa with no genetic evidence reported so far. In this work, we describe the mass spectrometric sequencing of enamel peptides from four ~2 million-year-old dental specimens attributed morphologically to P. robustus from the site of Swartkrans in South Africa. The identification of AMELY-specific peptides enabled us to assign two specimens to male individuals, whereas semiquantitative mass spectrometric data analysis attributed the other two to females. A single amino acid polymorphism and the enamel-dentine junction shape variation indicated potential subgroups present within southern African Paranthropus. This study demonstrates how palaeoproteomics can help distinguish sexual dimorphism from other sources of variation in African Early Pleistocene hominins.
PXD061566	40441440	Employing Expression-Matched Controls Enables High Confidence Proximity-Based Interactome Classification. 	Employing Expression-Matched Controls Enables High Confidence Proximity-Based Interactome Classification (Dataset 4)	Background protein, Control, Interacting protein identification, Proximity labeling proteomics, TurboID expression	Proximity labeling approaches have been widely utilized to define protein interactomes. Due to the inherent promiscuity of proximity labeling using TurboID-based approaches, identification and adoption of appropriate labeling controls is a pivotal step to mitigate background interference and enhance interactome assignment accuracy. Here, we evaluate the effectiveness of both expression controls and data normalization strategies in generating high confidence interactome maps. We demonstrate that the extent of control TurboID protein expression is strongly correlated with overall signal intensity and the number of identified proteins from streptavidin-enrichments. Discordant expression levels between the bait and control samples results in high frequency false-negative and false-positive identifications. Data normalization strategies help correct these expression differences but also introduce data distortion for proteins with high or low endogenous expression. Using the ubiquitin ligases RNF10 and HUWE1 as bait proteins, we demonstrate that matching TurboID expression between control and bait proteins allows for similar sampling of non-specific interactions. Using a matched expression strategy results in significantly reduced background interference and increases the accuracy of interactome assignments. These results document the need to alter proximity-labeling experimental workflows to include the generation of matched expression controls to enhance proximity labeling proteomics interactome mapping robustness and reproducibility.
PXD059365	40442064	Cleavage of CAD by caspase-3 determines the cancer cell fate during chemotherapy. 	Cleavage of CAD by caspase-3 determines the cancer cell fate during chemotherapy	CAD, Caspase-3, Chemosensitivity, Pyrimidine metabolism, Tumor heterogeneity	Metabolic heterogeneity resulting from the intra-tumoral heterogeneity mediates massive adverse outcomes of tumor therapy, including chemotherapeutic resistance, but the mechanisms inside remain largely unknown. Here, we find that the de novo pyrimidine synthesis pathway determines the chemosensitivity. Chemotherapeutic drugs promote the degradation of cytosolic Carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase II, Aspartate transcarbamylase, and Dihydroorotase (CAD), an enzyme that is rate-limiting for pyrimidine synthesis, leading to apoptosis. We also find that CAD needs to be cleaved by caspase-3 on its Asp1371 residue, before its degradation. Overexpressing CAD or mutating Asp1371 to block caspase-3 cleavage confers chemoresistance in xenograft and Cldn18-ATK gastric cancer models. Importantly, mutations related to Asp1371 of CAD are found in tumor samples that failed neoadjuvant chemotherapy and pharmacological targeting of CAD-Asp1371 mutations using RMY-186 ameliorates chemotherapy efficacy. Our work reveals the vulnerability of de novo pyrimidine synthesis during chemotherapy, highlighting CAD as a promising therapeutic target and biomarker.
PXD035326	40442239	Biochemical and functional properties of vesicles from planktonic and biofilm phenotypes of Limosilactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938. 	Proteomic analysis of Limosilactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938	Antibiofilm activity, Cell Free Supernatant, Cytotoxicity, Extracellular Membrane Vesicles, Lactobacillus reuteri, Limosilactobacillus reuteri, Metabolomics, Postbiotics, Probiotics	Limosilactobacillus reuteri DSM 17938 is among the world's most studied probiotic strains and has been shown to provide several health benefits for the host. We have previously shown that the cell-free supernatant of L. reuteri DSM 17938 possesses antimicrobial activity and contains several bioactive compounds. Furthermore, the strain was shown to be a biofilm producer that releases both planktonic and biofilm Membrane Vesicles (MVs). In this study, membrane vesicles isolated from planktonic (pMVs) and biofilm (bMVs) phenotypes were comparatively investigated for their toxicity, ability to kill cancer as well as non-cancer cell lines and modulate phagocytosis in murine macrophages. Neither pMVs nor bMVs showed any in vivo toxicity in a Galleria mellonella model, and weakly affected cancer and noncancerous cell viability after both short- and long-term treatments. However, they were able to affect phagocytosis in lipopolysaccharide challenged RAW 264.7 macrophages, suggesting possible immunomodulatory properties. NMR-based metabolomic analysis of pMVs and bMVs identified and quantified engulfed compounds, mainly organic acids and amino acids, with lactate being the most abundant molecule in both vesicle types. bMVs contained higher concentrations of all measured metabolites compared to pMVs. Proteomic analysis of pMVs and bMVs described equivalent protein cargos, emphasizing quantitative compositional differences that presumably reflect the physiological state of each parent bacterial phenotype. Through the assignment of molecules possibly acting as mediators of immune/inflammatory responses in the host and/or modulating known beneficial effects of L. reuteri, important signaling functions of these vesicles were suggested. Finally, storage stability of MVs up to four weeks was established.
PXD046984	40443279	Loss of STARD7 Triggers Metabolic Reprogramming and Cell Cycle Arrest in Breast Cancer. 	Loss of the lipid transfer protein STARD7 triggers metabolic reprogramming and an epigenetic-mediated cell cycle arrest in breast cancer	cancer, lipid transfer, metabolism	Cancer cells adapt their metabolism to support aberrant cell proliferation. However, the functional link between metabolic reprogramming and cell cycle progression remains largely unexplored. Mitochondria rely on the transfer of multiple lipids from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to their membranes to be functional. Several mitochondrial-derived metabolites influence cancer cell proliferation by modulating the epigenome. Here, the loss of STARD7, a lipid transfer protein whose expression is enhanced in breast cancer, is shown to lead a metabolic reprogramming characterized by the accumulation of carnitine derivatives and S-Adenosyl-L-methionine (SAM). Elevated SAM levels cause the increase of H3K27 trimethylation on many gene promoters coding for candidates involved in cell cycle progression. Likewise, STARD7 deficiency triggers cell cycle arrest and impairs ERalpha-dependent cell proliferation. Moreover, EGFR signaling is also impaired in triple negative breast cancer cells lacking STARD7, at least due to deregulated EGFR trafficking to lysosomes. Therefore, mitochondria rely on STARD7 to support cell cycle progression in breast cancer.
PXD057819	40443720	Inhibition Peroxiredoxin-2 by Capsaicin Ameliorates Rheumatoid Arthritis via ROS-Mediated Apoptosis in Fibroblast-Like Synoviocytes. 	Inhibition Peroxiredoxin-2 by capsaicin ameliorates rheumatoid arthritis via ROS-mediated apoptosis in fibroblast-like synoviocytes	Antioxidant, Capsaicin, Peroxiredoxin-2, Rheumatoid arthritis	Rheumatoid arthritis (RA), a prevalent and incurable autoimmune disease globally, is characterized by the immune system attacking the body's own tissues, leading to joint inflammation and damage. Capsaicin (CAP), from Capsicum annuum L., is known for its burning sensation-inducing property and has shown various pharmacological effects, yet its specific mechanisms and targets in RA treatment remain largely unclear. This study aimed to investigate the role of CAP in RA by synthesizing CAP probes and using activity-based protein profiling. We found that CAP reduced joint swelling in arthritic mice and exerted anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative effects on fibroblast-like synoviocytes. We identified that CAP binds to PRDX2, inhibiting its antioxidant function and inducing oxidative stress and apoptosis, contributing to the antiarthritic effects. These results suggest that PRDX2 is a potential target for CAP in RA treatment, providing new insights into the molecular mechanisms and potential therapeutic strategies for RA.
PXD063689	40444038	Nafamostat mesylate augments survival in rats afflicted by exertional heat stroke. 	Nafamostat Mesylate Augments Survival in Rats Afflicted by Exertional Heat Stroke	Nafamostat mesylate, heatstroke, rats, thrombosis	Objective: To evaluate the impact of Nafamostat mesylate (NM) in improving survival outcomes among rats subjected to exertional heat stroke. Methods: This study involved a cohort of 45 specific pathogen-free (SPF) male Sprague Dawley (SD) rats. After successfully inducing exertional heat stroke, the rats were randomly divided into three groups: the Control group (Con, n = 15), the Exertional Heat Stroke group (EHS, n = 15), and the Nafamostat Mesylate group (NM, n = 15). A subset of ten rats from each group was selected for a 72-h survival analysis. Three hours following the successful establishment of the model, blood samples were collected under anesthesia for comprehensive analysis. This included routine hematological tests, coagulation assessments, and quantitative proteomics analysis, which were later validated using Parallel Reaction Monitoring (PRM). Additionally, tissue samples were harvested from the brain, heart, lung, kidney, liver, and duodenum of rats in each group for subsequent pathological examination. Results: The 72-h survival rate in the NM group was markedly higher than that observed in the EHS group. Pathological assessments indicated a notable reduction in thrombus formation within the brain, lungs, and liver in the NM group when compared to the EHS group. Furthermore, the NM group exhibited an elevated platelet count and a significant reduction in prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) relative to the EHS group. Proteomic profiling identified a total of 1,971 differentially expressed proteins, with 160 proteins being downregulated and 52 upregulated in the NM group as compared to the EHS group. PRM validation confirmed that the NM group significantly dampened the expression levels of key differential proteins, including ribosomal protein P2 (rpLP2), Histone 4c16 (H4c16), neutrophilic granule protein (NGP), and inositol monophosphatase 1 (Impa1), which are implicated in anti-inflammatory responses, suppression of immune-mediated thrombosis, and enhancement of cellular metabolism. Conclusion: NM mitigates coagulopathy, alleviates thrombus burden, and improves the 72-h survival rate in EHS rats through the modulation of differentially expressed proteins, specifically rpLP2, H4c16, NGP, and Impa1.
PXD034144	40444155	The Porphyromonas gingivalis RNA-binding protein is required for growth in high levels of zinc and persistence with host cells. 	Role of RNA binding protein PgRBP1 in alteration of protein profile of Porphyromonas gingivalis	Bacteroides, Porphyromonas gingivalis, RNA binding protein, regulation	The oral periodontal pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis must adapt to an ever-changing environment to survive and cause disease. So far, most of the efforts concerning the regulatory mechanisms employed by the bacterium centered on DNA-binding regulators. Although global regulatory mechanisms employing RNA-binding proteins (RBP) are reported in most forms of life so far, such mechanism of regulation remains unknown in the oral Bacteroidetes group. Examination of the genome of P. gingivalis led to the discovery of a putative RBP with the RNA recognition motif 1 (RRM-1) designated here RbpPg1 (RNA-binding protein Porphyromonas gingivalis 1). The recombinant form of the protein-bound RNA and RNA-pull down identified a zinc exporter transcript as the most enriched one in agreement with the higher levels of zinc in the absence of the protein. Deletion of RbpPg1 reduced the ability of the bacterium to grow with 0.5 mM zinc. The RgpB protein level and the Arg-X protease activity was reduced in both iron replete and iron deplete conditions in the mutant strain when compared to the wild type. Lys-X protease activity was reduced, although Kgp protein levels were not altered by deletion of RbpPg1. The mutant grew better in hemin-deplete conditions when compared to the wild type. Finally, RbpPg1 was indispensable for the bacterium to survive with host cells. We have determined that both the transcriptome and proteome are affected by the deletion of RbpPg1 and found that the major group of proteins with elevated expression were the ones associated with response to environmental stress changes, while proteins mediating metabolic processes were downregulated. Overall, the first RBP characterized in P. gingivalis plays a significant role in the biology of the bacterium and differs from RBPs in other Gram-negative bacteria. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD034144 and via the NCBI Gene Expression Omnibus (GEO) and under accession number GSE168570.
PXD056950	40447213	A network of RNA-Binding and Metabolic Proteins evidenced in the Entamoeba histolytica Nuclear Proteome. 	Entamoeba histolytica nuclear proteome	Entamoeba histolytica	Amoebiasis caused by the protozoan parasite Entamoeba histolytica is a serious leading cause of parasite-related death worldwide and there is a need for developing new safe and efficient control methods. The nuclear polyadenylation factor EhCFIm25 has been recently reported as a biochemical target in E. histolytica, being necessary for proliferation and parasite virulence. Interestingly, the prediction and experimental characterization of EhCFIm25 interactome revealed close relationships between nuclear proteins involved in gene expression regulation and typically cytoplasmic enzymes of redox and energy metabolism. Here, the description of the nuclear proteome of E. histolytica obtained by mass spectrometry analysis confirmed the presence of metabolic proteins in the nuclear compartment, which could have moonlight functions. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD056950. The predicted network of RNA-binding and metabolic proteins also evidenced the relevance of five metabolic enzymes in the coordination between energy and RNA metabolism, opening new perspectives for amoebiasis control.
PXD062668	40447567	Integrated plasma and vegetation proteomic characterization of infective endocarditis for early diagnosis and treatment. 	Integrated Plasma and Vegetation Proteomic Characterization of Infective Endocarditis for Early Diagnosis and Treatment	IE, LRG1, NETs, NYHA, Streptococcus	Infective endocarditis, a life-threatening condition, poses challenges for early diagnosis and personalized treatment due to insufficient biomarkers and limited understanding of its pathophysiology. Here, we performed proteomic profiling of plasma and vegetation samples from 238 patients with infective endocarditis and 100 controls, with validation in two external plasma cohorts (n = 328). We developed machine learning-based diagnostic and prognostic models for infective endocarditis, with area under the curve values of 0.98 and 0.87, respectively. Leucine-rich alpha-2-glycoprotein 1 and NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunit B4 are potential biomarkers associated with infection severity. Pathologically, protein networks characterized by glycometabolism, amino acid metabolism, and adhesion are linked to adverse events. Liver dysfunction may exacerbate the condition in patients with severe heart failure. Neutrophil extracellular traps emerge as promising therapeutic targets in Streptococcus or Staphylococcus aureus infections. Our findings provide insights into biomarker discovery and pathophysiological mechanisms in infective endocarditis, advancing early diagnosis and personalized medicine.
PXD060008	40448242	Proteome profile differences among human, monkey, and mouse brain microvessels and cultured brain microvascular endothelial cells. 	Blood-brain barrier proteomics	DIA, brain microvessels, monkey	BACKGROUND: The blood-brain barrier (BBB) expresses transporters, receptors, and tight junction proteins that regulate the exchange of substances between the blood and brain. The differences in the expression of these proteins in the BBB among different species and cultured BBB model cells should be clarified to interpret the BBB function in model animals and cells. This study aimed to elucidate species differences among humans, monkeys, and mice and in vitro-in vivo differences in the BBB proteome using deep proteomic analysis. METHODS: Brain microvessels (BMVs) were isolated from frozen cerebral cortices of human and monkey and frozen mouse cerebrums. BMVs and cultured brain microvascular endothelial cells (BMECs), such as hCMEC/D3, HBMEC/cibeta, and primary BMECs, were analyzed via data-independent acquisition using liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. RESULTS: Proteomics identified 7,149-8,274 proteins in the BMV fractions and 6,657-7,534 proteins in the brain lysates. Comparative analysis revealed distinct proteomic profiles among the three species, with the human profile being more similar to that of monkeys than that of mice. The expression profile of the solute carrier organic anion transporter family was found to vary among mouse, monkey, and human BMVs. The expression levels of SLC22A6/Slc22a6 and SLC22A8/Slc22a8 were higher in mice than in monkeys and humans, whereas SLC43A3/Slc43a3 expression levels were lower in mice. The expression of amino acid transporters, such as SLC7A5 and SLC3A2/Slc3a2, was higher in BMVs, whereas that of SLC1A5/Slc1a5 and SLC38A9/Slc38a9 was higher in cultured BMECs. MFSD2A/Mfsd2a and SLC27A1/Slc27a1 were highly expressed in BMVs. The expression of tight junction proteins, particularly the claudin family, varied between BMVs and cultured BMECs and among cell lines. Specifically, the expression of claudin-5 was higher in BMVs, and claudin-11 expression was higher in cultured BMECs. CONCLUSIONS: Deep proteomic analysis revealed species-specific differences in transport-related proteins in the BBB. Furthermore, in vitro and in vivo differences were observed in the transporter and claudin protein expression. This study provides a BBB proteome profile dataset and offers insights for a comprehensive understanding of BBB protein expression across species and between in vivo and in vitro conditions.
PXD056772	40449592	SUMOylation targets O-GlcNAcase to chaperone-mediated autophagy. 	O-GlcNAcase SUMOylation studies identify the SUMO-code in chaperone-mediated autophagy	O-GlcNAcase, SUMOylation	O-GlcNAcase (OGA) is the sole eraser for the intracellular O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc). OGA has many roles in distinct biological processes, such as cancer and embryonic stem cells, but its precise regulatory mechanism is far from being understood. Herein we studied the small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) modification of OGA, and found that OGA is SUMOylated at K358. SUMOylation targets OGA to the chaperone-mediated autophagy (CMA) pathway, which shunts client proteins to the lysosome for degradation. We demonstrate that SUMOylation increases the association between OGA and the heat shock cognate protein 70 (HSC70), the CMA chaperone, and facilitates OGA further degradation. We further mapped a SUMO-interacting motif (SIM) (VLIFD, aa. 195-199) on HSC70. Notably, HSC70-SIM is essential for affinity with other CMA client proteins, such as PKM2. We thus posit that the SIM of HSC70 binds SUMOylated client proteins in a lock-and-key manner to confer substrate selectivity during CMA. To further test our hypothesis, we used label-free quantitative mass spectrometry to study the HSC70-SIM mutant interactome, and generated a proteome-wide SUMO-mediated CMA client pool. We then validated this model by studying YEATS domain containing 2 (YEATS2) from the protein pool, and demonstrated that YEATS2 is SUMOylated at K592, targeting it to CMA. Our work uncovers the SUMO-SIM interaction as a fundamental mechanism governing CMA substrate selectivity and identifies a potential CMA client proteome to deepen our understanding of its pathophysiological relevance.
PXD058040	40449597	Map of the Neuronal O-glycoproteome Reveal Driver Functions in the Regulated Secretory Pathway. 	Map of the Neuronal Tissue O-glycoproteome Reveal Specific Traits in the Secretogranin Family	CDG, Granin, O-glycosylation, PNN, central nervous system, dense core granules, domaine, glycosaminoglycans, neuroplasticity, neurotransmitter	Impairments in protein glycosylation, including O-GalNAc-type glycosylation, are linked to severe developmental disorders with prominent neurological involvement. However, the role of this glycosylation pathway at a cellular level is not yet fully understood. Here, we report a comprehensive map of GalNAc-type O-glycoproteins (>800) and O-glycosites (>4,000) from neuronal tissues and cell lines and identify abundant O-glycosites within major classes of proteins involved in neuroplasticity including axon guidance, membrane remodeling, and regulated vesicular secretion. Applying the map, we demonstrate that the regulated secretory pathway constitutes highly O-glycosylated proteins including Chromogranin A, a key player in dense core granulogenesis, and that correct O-glycosylation is important for its multimerization. Concurrently, genetically engineered neuronal cell lines deficient in O-glycosylation exhibit altered capacity for storing neurotransmitter noradrenaline and present enlarged neurotransmitter-containing dense core granules. Collectively, this map provides the foundation for uncovering critical roles for O-glycosylation in regulating neuroplasticity and provides evidence that dense core granule content is regulated by this pathway. Subjects: Granin, glycosylation, glycosaminoglycans, dense core granules (DCG), perineuronal net (PNN), mucin, central nervous system (CNS), neuron, neuroplasticity, neurotransmitter.
PXD059684	40451427	Deciphering the proteomic profile of the parasite Fasciola hepatica after initial vertebrate host infection reveals new insights into its early-stages. 	Deciphering the proteomic profile of the parasite Fasciola hepatica during host migration reveals new insights into early-stage infection	Parasite, SWATH-MS, infection, migration	The migration of the trematode parasite Fasciola hepatica within its vertebrate host following infection by ingestion of the metacercariae represents a critical event in its establishment and survival. The early stages of infection, during which F. hepatica crosses the intestinal barrier and advances to the liver through the peritoneum, initiate changes in the parasite that drive its development from a free-living state on pasture to an obligate blood-feeding parasite. Using an in vivo mouse model, this study explores the proteomic changes in the parasite as it crosses the intestinal barrier and migrates to the peritoneal cavity (24 h post-infection (p.i.)) and liver parenchyma (8 days p.i.). This model was coupled with SWATH-MS, enabling a comparative evaluation of parasite protein abundance during the early stages of infection. We identified a total of 1,180 F. hepatica proteins from three developmental timepoints: newly excysted juveniles (FhNEJ) at 3 h post-excystment in vitro, and parasites collected in vivo at 24 h and 8 days p.i., separated into two different parasite compartments (somatic and tegumental). These extracts exhibited differentially expressed proteins (DEP) across the analysed timepoints, with 274 and 463 DEP identified in parasites obtained at 24 h and 8 days p.i., respectively. Our findings further highlight the adaptations F. hepatica undergoes within the first week of infection, including a shift towards anaerobic metabolic pathways, induction of signal transduction pathways involved in growth, and enrichment of crucial cysteine peptidases associated with feeding and immunomodulation. This study represents the first in-depth proteome analysis of parasites recovered 8 days into infection, adding to the wealth of molecular data available for Fasciola spp. to enhance our understanding of early host-parasite interactions. These data are crucial for the development of future in vitro models of fasciolosis and for identifying vaccine candidates targeting the early parasite stages.
PXD061439	40451765	Tissue-Specific Regulation of Fatty Acid Metabolism in a Mouse Model of Isolated Complex I Deficiency. 	Tissue-specific regulation of fatty acid metabolism in a mouse model of isolated complex I deficiency	Fatty acid metabolism, Mitochondrial disease, Ndufs4 KO, SWATH-MS	Isolated complex I deficiency (ICD) is commonly associated with mitochondrial diseases and closely mimics subacute necrotising encephalomyelopathy. This disorder is characterised by metabolic perturbations that affect energy metabolism pathways, including fatty acid metabolism. Here, we examined the tissue-specific changes in fatty acid metabolism in the Ndufs4 KO mice by employing mass-spectrometry-based proteomics as a hypothesis-generating approach. We investigated proteomic changes in six tissues, including brain regions (brainstem, cerebellum, olfactory bulb), heart, kidney and liver, focusing on proteins involved in fatty acid metabolism. Although it is expected that most tissues, except for the brain, will utilise fatty acids as alternative energy sources when oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) is deficient, our data revealed a more complex response. In the liver, fatty acid consumption (oxidation) was favoured as expected, but in the heart, fatty acid synthesis was favoured. In the kidney, proteins involved in almost all fatty acid metabolic processes (oxidation and synthesis) were downregulated. Our data demonstrate that metabolic adaptations in fatty acid metabolism to ICD were tissue-specific and often in opposing directions. Understanding the differential adaptations across tissues could inform future treatment targets for mitochondrial disorders.
PXD035231	40454630	Integrative Phosphoproteomic and Proteomic Analysis of Candida albicans Exposed to Oxidative Stress. 	Candida albicans phosphoproteome analysis after exposure to hydrogen peroxide	Candida albicans, Shotgun, hydrogen peroxide, oxidative stress, phosphoproteome	Candida albicans is an opportunistic pathogen, which has recently been included in the high-priority list of pathogenic fungi by the World Health Organization (WHO). The scarce arsenal available to treat such invasive fungal infections makes the discovery of new antifungal targets an important task. This study utilizes DDA-MS technology to investigate both the phosphoproteomics and proteomics of C. albicans during its late-stage response to oxidative stress induced by H2O2, aiming to identify key proteins involved. Phosphorylation, as an important post-translational modification, plays a crucial role in the ability of C. albicans to survive oxidative stress. Our study enabled the identification and quantification of important changes in both protein abundance and phosphorylation events across multiple proteins following a 200 min 10 mM H2O2 treatment. The use of the DDA-MS approach allowed for the identification of new actors in the response to oxidative stress. Novel phosphorylation sites were identified in kinases and transcription factors. Regarding protein kinases, Cdc5-reduced phosphorylation may mediate a transient G2 cell cycle arrest, while Kis1-the regulatory beta-subunit of Snf1 kinase-might play a role in ROS scavenging following oxidative stress. In terms of transcription factors, Gzf3-decreased phosphorylation was essential for cell survival and ROS detoxification after oxidative stress.
PXD062096	40456736	Myocardial mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein promotes heart Ischemia-reperfusion injury via RIG-I signaling in mice. 	Myocardial Mitochondrial Antiviral Signaling Protein Promotes Heart Ischemia-reperfusion Injury via RIG-I Signaling-mass spectrometry	MAVS RIG-I MIRI	Myocardial ischemia-reperfusion injury (MIRI) is a life-threatening complication of myocardial infarcts, with inner mitochondrial membrane protein dysfunction involved in MIRI-induced heart injury. The role of outer mitochondrial membrane protein mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS) is unknown. Here, we show that MAVS expression increases in infarcted myocardium of male wild-type mice. Global MAVS-knock-out or myocardial-specific MAVS knockdown protects male mice from acute and chronic MIRI. MIRI induces double-stranded RNA in affected myocardium, activating intracellular retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) signaling, which leads to MAVS aggregation and subsequent non-canonical downstream signaling. MAVS aggregates recruit tumor necrosis factor-associated factor family 6 (TRAF6) and transforming growth factor-beta-activated kinase 1 (TAK1), the activating mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) pathway and apoptosis. MAVS-knock-out reduces c-jun-NH2 terminal kinase (JNK) phosphorylation and apoptosis. JNK inhibition protects against MIRI in wild-type male mice, whereas JNK agonist impairs protection in MAVS-knock-out male mice. MIRI activates RIG-I/MAVS pathway and subsequently triggers the TAK1/TRAF6 complex, leading to the activation of the MAPK/JNK signaling cascade. This sequential activation cascade may serve as a potential therapeutic target for MIRI.
PXD043453	40461648	Herpes simplex virus 1 evades APOBEC1-mediated immunity via its uracil-DNA glycosylase in mice. 	MS-based determination of vUNG phosphorylation	HSV-1, phosphorylation	Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) is the most common cause of viral encephalitis, which can be lethal or result in severe neurological defects despite antiviral therapy. The apolipoprotein B messenger-RNA editing enzyme, catalytic polypeptide-like (APOBEC) group of proteins can act as viral restriction factors. How HSV-1 evades this intrinsic immune mechanism is unclear. Here, using human carcinoma HEp-2 cells, we find that phosphorylation and therefore activation of HSV-1 uracil-DNA glycosylase counteracts mouse APOBEC1 DNA-editing activity on HSV-1 genomes. This protects viral genomes, promotes viral replication and encephalitis in the central nervous system of mice. Presence of Apobec1 improved encephalitis outcomes in mice challenged with HSV-1 carrying a mutation in the phosphorylation site of uracil-DNA glycosylase. Treatment with an UNG inhibitor, adeno-associated virus vector expressing UGI, protected wild-type HSV-1-infected mice from lethal encephalitis. These findings identify uracil-DNA glycosylase as a viral factor enabling evasion from intrinsic antiviral immunity mediated by APOBEC1 in the central nervous system and suggests a potential therapeutic approach to treat HSV-1 encephalitis.
PXD058714	40462177	PSMB10 maintains the stemness of chemotherapeutic drug-resistant leukemia cells by inhibiting senescence and cytotoxic T lymphocyte-mediated killing in a ubiquitinated degradation manner. 	AML cell line THP-1 shControl VS THP-1 shPSMB10	AML, PSMB10, THP-1	BACKGROUND: Drug resistance and relapse are still major challenges in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) because of the inability to effectively eradicate leukemia stem cells (LSCs). Senescence induction combined with immune killing may offer promising strategies for LSC eradication. However, whether and how drug-resistant LSCs retain stemness via senescence and immune regulation remains unknown. METHODS: The immunoproteasome subunit PSMB10 expression levels were analyzed by single-cell RNA-seq data, along with the bioinformatics analysis of publicly available AML datasets, and quantified using RT-qPCR and flow cytometry (FCM) analysis on clinical samples from AML patients. The cellular senescence was evaluated by the assays of cell proliferation, cell cycle, senescence-associated beta-galactosidase activity, and senescence-associated secretory phenotype factors. In vitro T-cell killing assay was played to determine immune escape reprogramming of AML cells. FCM was conducted to estimate intracellular drug concentration and cellular apoptosis rates. Human AML xenografts and PSMB10 knockout syngeneic mouse bone marrow transplantation models were utilized to investigate the function of PSMB10. Various techniques were employed for mechanism studies, including Lentivirus transduction or siRNA transfection, western blotting, co-immunoprecipitation assays, luciferase reporter assays, polysome profiling assays, quantitative proteomics, etc. RESULTS: PSMB10 mRNA was significantly upregulated in the surviving nonsenescent LSCs, exhibiting a 13-fold increase compared to senescent LSCs following chemotherapy. The specific high expression of PSMB10 in post-chemotherapy nonsenescent LSCs predicts a poor AML prognosis. The genetic inactivation of PSMB10 resulted in increased senescence and cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) killing, as well as increased intracellular drug concentrations and drug-induced cellular senescence in different types of human AML cells, which also impeded human and murine leukemia initiation and stemness maintenance in vivo with a 19-fold decrease in the frequency of human LSCs and a 7.6-fold decrease of drug-resistant mouse LSCs, while normal hematopoietic cells remained unaffected. Mechanistically, the downregulation of PSMB10 boosted SLC22A16-mediated drug endocytosis and further induced chemotherapy drug-mediated senescence through the RPL6/RPS6-MDM2-P21 pathway in AML cells. Additionally, downregulating PSMB10 also impeded MHC-I protein degradation-induced escape of CTL killing. CONCLUSIONS: PSMB10 is a key candidate molecular target for eradicating drug-resistant LSCs via senescence and immune regulation.
PXD059225	40464632	A Differential Proteomic Analysis on Patient Sera with Neuromyelitis Spectrum Disorders (NMOSD) and Myelin Oligodendrocyte Glycoprotein Antibody-Associated Disease (MOGAD) Suggested Shared and Distinct Disease Mechanisms. 	Differential serum proteomics of neuromyelitis spectrum disorders (NMOSD) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD)	MOGAD, NMOSD, autoimmune nerve system disease, demyelination, patient sera, shotgun proteomics	Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSD) and myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein antibody-associated disease (MOGAD) are two types of autoimmune-mediated central nervous system (CNS) inflammatory demyelinating diseases that have similar clinical manifestations but with different pathogenesis and prognosis. Here, we reported on a differential proteomic analysis on the patient sera with the two diseases. Serum samples of 25 aquaporin-4 (AQP4)-IgG+ NMOSD patients, 16 MOGAD patients, and 8 healthy individuals were submitted to shotgun analysis using nano-LC-MS/MS. Totally, 584 nonredundant proteins were identified and quantified, among which 340 proteins were detected in at least three samples per group. Statistical analysis revealed 40 proteins had significant difference in at least one group-pair comparison (fold change >1.2 or <0.83 and multiple-sample test ANOVA-q < 0.05). Also, 38 proteins were detected only in the patient groups and not in the healthy controls. Bioinformatic analysis on these 78 proteins revealed that disturbance of the immune system, hemostasis processes, and carbohydrate metabolism occurred in both diseases, while the dysregulation patterns suggested different mechanisms. We expect this work would provide useful information to improve the understanding of the mechanisms of NMOSD and MOGAD and suggest potential diagnostic markers and treatment targets.
PXD063699	40464736	The reaction mechanism for glycolysis side product degradation by Parkinson's disease-linked DJ-1. 	LFQ of 3-phosphoglyceroyl lysine peptides from WT and DJ-1 KO HeLa cells	3-phosphoglyceroylation, DJ-1	DJ-1/PARK7 is the causative gene for hereditary recessive Parkinson's disease. Recent studies have reported that DJ-1 hydrolyzes cyclic 3-phosphoglyceric anhydride (cPGA), a highly reactive metabolite. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying cPGA hydrolase activity have yet to be fully elucidated. To gain a more comprehensive understanding of this activity in DJ-1, we performed molecular simulations that predicted how DJ-1 recognizes and hydrolyzes cPGA. The accuracy of these structural predictions was validated through systematic mutational analyses exemplified by loss of activity with the A107P mutation. Although DJ-1 possesses both cPGA hydrolase and alpha-oxoaldehyde hydratase activities in vitro, we confirmed that DJ-1 dysfunction caused an increase in cPGA-derived modifications but had no effect on alpha-oxoaldehyde-derived modifications in cells. Importantly, A107 and P158, pathogenic missense mutation sites found in Parkinson's disease patients, are critical for cPGA hydrolysis both in vitro and in cells. The evidence-based catalytic mechanism for DJ-1 hydrolysis of cPGA that we propose here explains their pathophysiological significance.
PXD059479	40465714	Diversity and complexity of auditory representation in the hearing systems of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. 	Diversity and complexity of auditory representation in the hearing systems of Aedes aegypti mosquitoes	Aedes aegypti, auditory representation, mosquito	Although low-frequency sounds have been reported to stimulate dispersal responses in male and female mosquitoes, only males show attraction to sound. Male attraction to female flight tones is important during courtship; however, groups of males show diverse responses to acoustic stimuli, suggesting that auditory processing can vary drastically between the sexes and individual males. To investigate diversity in auditory representation within and between the sexes, we used molecular and functional analyses to explore Aedes aegypti mosquito auditory processing. We identified shared and dimorphic neurons connecting mosquito ears to the brains' primary auditory processing center. Calcium imaging from this brain region facilitated definition of multiple neuronal clusters based on auditory stimulation responses. More clusters with greater complexity were identified in males than females, with these clusters highly differentiated among males. Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses found enrichment of ciliary-related factors in male ears compared to females, potentially underlying sexual dimorphisms in hearing systems.
PXD063335	40466647	Cytoplasmic Histone Is a Marker of Pro-Inflammatory CD4(+) T Cells. 	Mass spectrometry analysis of the cytoplasmic histones within CD4+ T cells	CD4 histone	Although extranuclear histones have been identified for a long time, their role in lymphocytes, particularly cytoplasmic histones, remains elusive. In this study, we conducted a visual and quantitative analysis of cytoplasmic histones in CD4(+) T cells and discovered that effector CD4(+) T cells contain higher levels of cytoplasmic histones compared to naive T cells. We observed a significant increase in cytoplasmic histones following T cell receptor (TCR) activation, with further elevation during the differentiation of Th1 and Th17 cells. Interestingly, double-stranded RNA (dsRNA) specifically enhanced cytoplasmic histones in Th17, but not in Th1 cells. Additionally, we confirmed that cytoplasmic H2B-positive Th17 cells exhibited increased expression of inflammatory molecules, including pro-inflammatory cytokines. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD063335. Importantly, CD4(+) T cells from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) presented elevated levels of cytoplasmic histones. These findings define cytoplasmic histones as markers of proinflammatory CD4(+) T cells and suggest their potential as biomarkers for autoimmune disease.
PXD060481	40466852	Transitions in the proteome and phospho-proteome during Xenopus laevis development. 	Transitions in the proteome and phospho-proteome during Xenopus laevis development.	TMT, development, eclipse, lumos, xenopus laevis	Vertebrate development from an egg to a complex multi-cell organism is accompanied by multiple phases of genome-scale changes in the repertoire of proteins and their post-translational modifications. While much has been learned at the RNA level, we know less about changes at the protein level. In this paper, we present a deep analysis of changes of ~15,000 proteins and ~11,500 phospho-sites at 11 developmental time points in Xenopus laevis embryos ranging from the stage VI oocyte to juvenile tadpole. We find that the most dramatic changes to the proteome occur during the transition to functional organ systems, which occurs as the embryo becomes a tadpole. At that time, the absolute amount of non-yolk protein increases two-fold, and there is a shift in the balance of expression from proteins regulating gene expression to receptors, ligands, and proteins involved in cell-cell and cell-environment interactions. Between the early and late tadpole, the median increase for membrane and secreted proteins is substantially higher than that of nuclear proteins. To begin to appreciate changes at the post-translational level, we have measured quantitative phospho-proteomic data across the same developmental stages. In contrast to the significant protein changes that are concentrated at the end of the time series, the most significant phosphorylation changes are concentrated in the very early stages of development. A clear exception are phosphorylations of proteins involved in gene expression: these increase just after fertilization, with patterns that are highly correlated with the underlying protein changes. To facilitate the interpretation of this unique phospho-proteome data set, we created a pipeline for identifying homologous human phosphorylations from the measured Xenopus phospho-proteome. Collectively, our data reveal multiple coordinated transitions in protein and phosphorylation profiles, reflecting distinct developmental strategies and providing an extensive resource to further explore developmental biology at the proteomic and phospho-proteomic levels.
PXD020573	40466864	PTMFusionNet: A Deep Learning Approach for Predicting Disease Related Post-Translational Modification and Classifying Disease Subtypes. 	Synergistically bifunctional magnetic beads enable efficient isolation of urine extracellular vesicles and downstream phosphoproteomic analysis	ProteomeXchange project tag: Human Proteome Project, Urine extracellular vesicles, phosphoproteomic	With the advancement of technologies such as mass spectrometry, it has become possible to simultaneously perform large-scale detection of protein intensity and corresponding post-translational modification (PTM) information, thereby facilitating clinical diagnosis and treatment. However, existing PTM information is insufficient to fully integrate with protein expression data. We propose a deep learning method called PTMFusionNet, which predicts potential disease-related PTMs and integrates them with protein expression data to classify disease subtypes. PTMFusionNet includes two Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) models: the Layer Attention Graph Convolutional Network (LAGCN) and the Feature Weighting Graph Convolutional Network (FWGCN). LAGCN is used to predict PTM potentiality scores, while FWGCN integrates these scores with protein expression data for disease subtype classification. Experimental results across three datasets (KIPAN, COADREAD, and THCA) demonstrate that PTMFusionNet outperforms benchmark algorithms in accuracy, F1 score, and AUC, highlighting its robustness in identifying critical PTM biomarkers and advancing disease subtyping.
PXD062794	40467768	Identification of key proteins and pathways in myocardial infarction using machine learning approaches. 	Identification of Key Proteins and Pathways in Myocardial Infarction Using Machine Learning Approaches	acute myocardial infarction, functional enrichment analysis, machine learning, single-cell sequencing	Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is a leading cause of global morbidity and mortality, requiring deeper insights into its molecular mechanisms for improved diagnosis and treatment. This study combines proteomics, transcriptomics and machine learning (ML) to identify key proteins and pathways associated with AMI. Plasma samples from 48 AMI patients and 50 healthy controls (HC) were used for proteomic sequencing. Differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) were identified and analyzed for pathway enrichment. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks were constructed, and we conducted a meta-analysis (GSE60993, GSE61144, GSE48060) using an inverse variance model to combine differentially expressed genes (DEGs) identified via LIMMA and FDR adjustment across three studies. Clustering and co-expression analysis were performed using K-Medoids and weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA). ML feature selection identified hub proteins, which were validated across bulk, single-cell, and spatial datasets for atherosclerosis (ATH) and MI. In this study, we identified 437 DEPs with 291 up-regulated and 146 down-regulated proteins. Functional enrichment analysis revealed key pathways involved in inflammation, immunity, metabolism, and cellular stress responses, among others. Using non-negative matrix factorization (NNMF) and K-Medoids clustering, AMI patients were divided into two clusters (C1 and C2), with distinct protein expression patterns and inflammatory responses. Differential analysis between clusters revealed 200 cluster-specific DEPs, with C1 associated with angiogenesis and vascular remodeling, and C2 linked to cellular stress and apoptosis. A meta-analysis identified 1383 DEGs, and their intersection with DEPs yielded 63 proteins, which were subsequently refined by logistic regression to 36 AMI-associated proteins. Furthermore, a protein co-expression network analysis identified 49 modules, with the turquoise module being strongly associated with AMI highlighting pathways in lipid metabolism, immune response, and tissue repair. From this module, 17 key proteins were selected, and ML further distilled these to nine core features (CAMP, CLTC, CTNNB1, FUBP3, IQGAP1, MANBA, ORM1, PSME1, and SPP1) that are closely linked to immune regulation, apoptosis, and metabolism. These proteins were validated across multiple datasets. Single-cell analysis revealed distinct expression patterns of these proteins across cell types and spatial regions in ATH and MI, emphasizing their roles in inflammation, vascular remodeling, and plaque instability. This study identifies critical proteins and pathways in AMI, offering potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets. The use of ML provides a robust framework for identifying AMI's key molecular.
PXD059607	40467924	Atlas of lysine propionylation of human right atrium and ALDH6A1-NADH pathway in new-onset atrial fibrillation after coronary surgery. 	Atlas of lysine propionylation in the human right atrium reveals ALDH6A1-NADH pathway involved in the new-onset atrial fibrillation in aging after coronary artery bypass grafting	ALDH6A1, atrial fibrillation, coronary artery bypass grafting, propionylation	Lysine propionylation modification (Kpr) plays an important role in the pathogenesis of several cardiovascular diseases, but the role of Kpr in postoperative atrial fibrillation (POAF) is unclear. Here, we established an atlas of proteomics and propionylation proteomics in the atrial appendage tissues from 28 CABG patients, exploring the role of Kpr proteins in the occurrence of POAF. The Kpr of ALDH6A1 was most significantly increased on Lys113 (2.25 folds). The activity of ALDH6A1 increased due to higher binding energy of propionylated ALDH6A1 and NAD(+), causing an increase in NADH levels in cells and triggering abnormal energy metabolism. Furthermore, the increase in NADH levels triggered the accumulation of reactive oxygen species, which may cause oxidative stress, resulting in the development of AF. This study reveals the important role of ALDH6A1-NADH pathway in POAF, and provides new insights for exploring the pathogenesis of POAF in CABG.
PXD058854	40468084	Probing condensate microenvironments with a micropeptide killswitch. 	Probing condensate microenvironments and functions with a micropeptide "killswitch" 	condensates	Biomolecular condensates are thought to create subcellular microenvironments that have different physicochemical properties compared with their surrounding nucleoplasm or cytoplasm(1-5). However, probing the microenvironments of condensates and their relationship to biological function is a major challenge because tools to selectively manipulate specific condensates in living cells are limited(6-9). Here, we develop a non-natural micropeptide (that is, the killswitch) and a nanobody-based recruitment system as a universal approach to probe endogenous condensates, and demonstrate direct links between condensate microenvironments and function in cells. The killswitch is a hydrophobic, aromatic-rich sequence with the ability to self-associate, and has no homology to human proteins. When recruited to endogenous and disease-specific condensates in human cells, the killswitch immobilized condensate-forming proteins, leading to both predicted and unexpected effects. Targeting the killswitch to the nucleolar protein NPM1 altered nucleolar composition and reduced the mobility of a ribosomal protein in nucleoli. Targeting the killswitch to fusion oncoprotein condensates altered condensate compositions and inhibited the proliferation of condensate-driven leukaemia cells. In adenoviral nuclear condensates, the killswitch inhibited partitioning of capsid proteins into condensates and suppressed viral particle assembly. The results suggest that the microenvironment within cellular condensates has an essential contribution to non-stoichiometric enrichment and mobility of effector proteins. The killswitch is a widely applicable tool to alter the material properties of endogenous condensates and, as a consequence, to probe functions of condensates linked to diverse physiological and pathological processes.
PXD063910	40468964	Haptoglobin and Glutamine Synthetase May Biomark Cachexia Induced by Antiacute Myeloid Leukaemia Chemotherapy. 	Haptoglobin and glutamine synthetase as potential biomarkers of chemotherapy-induced cachexia in skeletal muscle	AML, Cancer cachexia, TMT, acute myeloid leukemia, biomarkers, chemotherapy, glutamine synthetase, haptoglobin, mitochondrial metabolism, skeletal muscle wasting	BACKGROUND: Anticancer chemotherapy is an underappreciated contributor to cancer cachexia, an often-irreversible body-wasting condition that causes 20%-30% of cancer-related deaths. An obstacle to predicting, monitoring and understanding the mechanisms underlying chemotherapy cachexia is that each cancer (and subtype) is assigned different chemotherapeutic compounds, typically in multiagent regimens. Here, we investigate the chemotherapy induction regimen (CIR) used in the haematological cancer, acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). We hypothesised that the AML CIR would induce cachexia, including loss of lean tissue mass and skeletal muscle atrophy. METHODS: Using an unbiased proteomics approach, we interrogated the underlying molecular mechanisms. Three-month-old male Balb/c mice were treated with the AML CIR via intraperitoneal injections of daunorubicin (1.7 mg/kg) on Days 1-3 and cytarabine (33.2 mg/kg) administered on Days 1-7 or vehicle. Mice were assessed 24 h after the last treatment, on Day 8, or allowed to recover for 2 weeks and assessed on Day 22. A third cohort was given access to running wheels in cages. We assessed body composition and whole-body metabolism and assessed the muscle proteome using quantitative tandem mass tag labelling LC-MS/MS analysis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD063910. RESULTS: The AML CIR-induced acute cachexia involved a ~10% loss of body mass, ~10% loss of lean mass and ~20% reduction in skeletal muscle fibre size. Whole-body metabolism and ambulatory activity declined. This cachexic phenotype did not recover over the 2-week post-CIR period (lean mass loss post-CIR: 1 week ~7% vs. 2 weeks ~9%). In voluntarily active CIR-treated mice, body wasting was exacerbated due to unchecked loss of fat mass (CIR sedentary: ~31% vs. CIR active: ~51%). Muscle proteome studies revealed upregulation of haptoglobin (Hp) and glutamine synthetase (Glul), which were positively correlated with body and lean mass loss. Hp was sensitive to the conditional induction, recovery and exacerbation of AML CIR-mediated cachexia, suggestive of biomarker potential. CONCLUSIONS: The AML CIR induces an acute reduction of body, lean and fat mass underpinned by skeletal muscle atrophy, hypermetabolism and catabolism. Our data uncovered a conditionally sensitive muscle biomarker in Hp, which may be useful as a prognostic tool across other scenarios of chemotherapy-induced myopathy and cachexia or as a target for therapeutic discovery in follow-up studies.
PXD061948	40469517	Integrative cross-tissue analysis unveils complement-immunoglobulin augmentation and dysbiosis-related fatty acid metabolic remodeling during mammalian aging. 	Deciphering  aging-related changes based on cross-tissue proteomic profilling	aging, cross-tissue	Aging-related decline and adaptation are complex, multifaceted processes that affect various tissues and increase risk of chronic diseases. To characterize key changes in cross-tissue aging, we performed comprehensive proteomic and metabolomic analyses across 21 solid tissues and plasma samples, alongside shotgun metagenomic profiling of fecal microbial communities in young and aged mice. Our findings revealed widespread aging-rewired chronic inflammation, characterized by complement system activation in plasma and universal immunoglobulins accumulation across multiple solid tissues. This inflammatory remodeling significantly enhanced vulnerability to aging-related tissue injury. Moreover, we identified organ-specific and organ-enriched proteins with high functional specificity. Among these, aging-related proteins were closely linked to disorders arising from lipid metabolism dysfunction. Analysis of multi-tissue metabolomic and fecal metagenomic profiles revealed that aging significantly disrupted inter-tissue metabolic coupling, activities of polyunsaturated fatty acids metabolism, and gut microbiota homeostasis. Aged mice exhibited a marked decrease in Escherichia and an increase in Helicobacter, strongly correlating with alterations in omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acid abundances. Through multi-omics integration, we identified key molecular hubs driving organismal responses to aging. Collectively, our study uncovers extensive aging-associated alterations across tissues, emphasizing the interplay between systemic inflammation and dysbiosis-driven fatty acid remodeling. These findings provide deeper insights into the development of healthy aging from a cross-tissue perspective.
PXD059024	40469974	Integrated proteomics analysis and network pharmacology to elucidate the mechanism of Zhilong Huoxue Tongyu Capsule alleviate hypertensive retinopathy in Ang II infusion mice model. 	To evaluate the therapeutic potential of ZLHXTY in HR mouse model as well as investigate the underlying molecular mechanisms	Traditional Chinese medicine, Zhilong Huoxue Tongyu Capsule, hypertensive retinopathy	Background: Zhilong Huoxue Tongyu Capsule (ZLHXTY) has been used in clinical treatment of vascular diseases caused by hypertension over 20 years. However, the specific mechanisms by ZLHXTY alleviate hypertensive retinopathy (HR) needs to be further explored. Materials and methods: HR mouse model was established by infusing Ang II via subcutaneously implanted osmotic mini-pumps, followed by oral administration of ZLHXTY (0.35, 0.7, 1.4 g/kg/day) 28 days for treatment. To assess the impacts of ZLHXTY on retinal neurodegeneration and vascular injury, multiple experiments such as OCTA, ERG and HE staining were performed. Subsequently, network pharmacological and 4D-label-free proteomics to clarify the potential targets and mechanisms of ZLHXTY alleviated HR. Finally, Western blot, ELISA, IF, and other techniques were utilized to detect the expression of proteins related to inflammation, oxidative stress, and NLRP3 inflammasome activation. Results: ZLHXTY significantly alleviated retinal dysfunction, increased retinal blood flow, and mitigated pathological changes such as retinal tissues edema in HR mice. Network pharmacology indicated that ZLHXTY might exert anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative stress effects through targets such as TNF and NF-kappaB. Proteomic analysis showed that the differential proteins between the ZL group and the Ang II group were mainly enriched in the immune-inflammatory response, and the main mechanism of which might be related to the assembly of NLRP3 inflammasome. Subsequent in vivo experiments corroborated that ZLHXTY remarkably attenuated inflammation and oxidative stress damage in retinal tissues. Further experiments demonstrated that ZLHXTY inhibited the NLRP3/Caspase-1/GSDMD signaling pathway and related protein expression. Finally, TEM results also verified that ZLHXTY alleviated pyroptosis in retinal cells. Conclusion: Our results suggest that ZLHXTY by regulating the NLRP3/Caspase-1/GSDMD axis, inhibiting pyroptosis, thereby relieving retinal dysfunction and vascular injury in HR mice.
PXD064940	40471279	Structural Insights into allosteric inhibition of HRI kinase by heme binding via HDX-MS. 	Human HRI Autophosphorylation Profile	Autophosphorylation, HRI, Kinase	Heme-Regulated Inhibitor (HRI) is one of the four mammalian kinases that phosphorylate eIF2alpha, facilitating a cellular response to stress through the regulation of mRNA translation. Originally identified as a heme sensor in erythroid progenitor cells, HRI has since emerged as a potential therapeutic target in both cancer and neurodegeneration. Here, we characterize two modes of HRI inhibition using structural mass spectrometry, biochemistry, and biophysics. We examined several competitive ATP-mimetic inhibitors-Dabrafenib, Encorafenib, and GCN2iB-and compared them to the heme-mimetic allosteric inhibitor, hemin. By combining Hydrogen-Deuterium Exchange Mass Spectrometry (HDX-MS) with protein models generated by AlphaFold 3, we investigated the structural basis of inhibition by Dabrafenib and hemin. Our analysis revealed that hemin inhibition induces large-scale structural rearrangements in HRI, which are not observed with ATP-mimetic inhibitors. Our results suggest that HRI may be inhibited using two distinctly different modalities which may guide future drug development.
PXD058005	40472320	Elucidating the dynamics of Integrin alphaIIbbeta3 from native platelet membranes by cryo-EM with build and retrieve method. 	cryo-EM Study of Human Platelet Membrane	CL-MS/MS, Platelet, cryo-EM	Platelets fulfill their essential physiological roles sensing the extracellular environment through their membrane proteins. The native membrane environment provides essential regulatory cues that impact the protein structure and mechanism of action. Single-particle cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM) has transformed structural biology by allowing high-resolution structures of membrane proteins to be solved from homogeneous samples. Our recent breakthroughs in data processing now make it feasible to obtain atomic-level-resolution protein structures from crude preparations in their native environments by integrating cryo-EM with the "Build-and-Retrieve" (BaR) data processing methodology. We applied this iterative bottom-up methodology on resting human platelet membranes for an in-depth systems biology approach to uncover how lipids, metal binding, post-translational modifications, and co-factor associations in the native environment regulate platelet function at the molecular level. Here, we report using cryo-EM followed by the BaR method to solve the unmodified integrin alphaIIbbeta3 structure directly from resting human platelet membranes in its inactivated and intermediate states at 2.75Aa and 2.67Aa, respectively. Further, we also solved a novel dimer conformation of alphaIIbbeta3 at 2.85Aa formed by two intermediate-states of alphaIIbbeta3. This may indicate a previously unknown self-regulatory mechanism of alphaIIbbeta3 in its native environment. In conclusion, our data show the power of using cryo-EM with the BaR method to determine three distinct structures including a novel dimer directly from natural sources. This approach allows us to identify unrecognized regulation mechanisms for proteins without artifacts due to purification processes. These data have the potential to enrich our understanding of platelet signaling circuitry.
PXD063222	40472843	Biochemical analysis of PD-L1 ubiquitination by CRL3(SPOP), ARIH1, and NEDD4 family ubiquitin ligases. 	The major lysine residues of PD-L1 ubiquitinated by ARIH1	ARIH1, PD-L1	As a key immune checkpoint ligand, PD-L1 is a critical target in cancer immunotherapy. While multiple E3 ubiquitin ligases including CRL3(SPOP), ARIH1, and NEDD4 have been implicated in PD-L1 degradation, the precise enzymatic mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we systematically compared the enzymatic activities of CRL3(SPOP), ARIH1, and NEDD4 ligases toward the cytoplasmic domain of PD-L1 through in vitro reconstitution with purified components. ARIH1, rather than CRL3(SPOP), independently ubiquitinates PD-L1. We reveal a mechanism where ARIH1 acts as a substrate receptor and cooperates with CRLs to catalyze PD-L1 ubiquitination. We also biochemically validated the E3 ligase activity of the NEDD4 family E3s toward PD-L1. By using liposomes in the enzymatic assays, we show that phosphorylation enhances PD-L1 ubiquitination through disrupting its membrane association. Our study provides further biochemical insights into PD-L1 ubiquitination, which advances our understanding of the molecular details of PD-L1 regulation.
PXD060821	40473212	Identification of substrates and sequence requirements for CARNMT1-mediated histidine methylation of C3H zinc fingers. 	Histidine methylation of MYLK2 and C3H zinc fingers by CARNMT1	1-methylhistidine, 1MH, C3H zinc finger, CARNMT1, MYLK2, Protein methylation, RNF113A, U2AF1, histidine methyltransferase, spliceosome	It has recently become clear that protein histidine methylation is widespread and functionally important, and human CARNMT1 was recently reported as a novel protein histidine methyltransferase (HMT). We describe our independent uncovering of CARNMT1's protein HMT activity, and a comprehensive assessment of its methylation targets and substrate specificity. Using a combination of in vitro methylation of cellular extracts and protein mass spectrometry, we identified several CARNMT1 targets that were fully methylated in cells, all of which were C3H zinc finger (ZnF) proteins. These included the previously identified U2AF1, ZC3H15 and ZC3H18, but also the unreported RBM22, PPP1R10, PRR3 and RNF113A. Using peptide arrays, we investigated CARNMT1-mediated methylation of 145 candidate sequences, encompassing all C3H ZnFs and selected non-ZnFs. We found that only ~30 % of the tested sequences were methylated, with C3H ZnFs constituting the vast majority of the strongly methylated ones, most of which are also methylated in cells. This establishes peptide methylation as a good predictor of in vivo methylation. To investigate the specificity of CARNMT1, we systematically substituted His-proximal residues in four different substrate peptides. This generated four rather different activity profiles, which were still quite restrictive for each peptide, indicating that molecular recognition by CARNMT1 is context-dependent, and that sequence-based prediction of additional CARNMT1 substrates may be challenging. We also identified several homologous methylation events in Caenorhabditis elegans and showed that they could be introduced by nematode CARNMT in vitro. Thus, CARNMT1 is an evolutionary conserved protein HMT with a complex mode of substrate recognition.
PXD062911	40473629	beta-propeller protein-associated neurodegeneration protein WDR45 regulates stress granule disassembly via phase separation with Caprin-1. 	The BPAN disease protein WDR45 forms condensates with Caprin-1 to regulate stress granule disassembly	BPAN disease, Caprin-1, granule disassembly	beta-propeller protein-associated neurodegeneration (BPAN) is a rare X-linked neurodegenerative disorder caused by mutations in the WDR45 gene, yet its molecular mechanisms remain poorly understood. Here, we identify a role for WDR45 in stress granule (SG) disassembly, mediated through its phase separation with Caprin-1. We demonstrate that WDR45 forms gel-like condensates via its WD5 domain, which competitively displaces G3BP1 from Caprin-1 to promote SG disassembly. BPAN-associated WDR45 mutations impair condensate formation and Caprin-1 interaction, leading to delayed SG disassembly, which correlates with earlier disease onset. WDR45 depletion also exacerbates amyotrophic lateral sclerosis-associated pathological SGs, highlighting its broader relevance to neurodegenerative diseases. Using iPSC-derived midbrain neurons from a BPAN patient, we demonstrate delayed SG recovery, directly linking WDR45 dysfunction to neurodegeneration. These findings establish WDR45 as a critical regulator of SG dynamics, uncover a potential molecular basis of BPAN pathogenesis, and identify therapeutic targets for neurodegenerative diseases associated with SG dysregulation.
PXD060117	40474277	A role of arginase-1-expressing myeloid cells in cachexia. 	Arginine restriction of skeletal myotubes	Arginine, restriction, skeletal myotubes	BACKGROUND: Despite decades of efforts to find successful treatment approaches, cachexia remains a major unmet medical need. This condition, that affects patients with diverse underlying conditions, is characterized by severe muscle loss and is associated with reduced quality of life and limited survival. Search for underlying mechanisms that may guide cachexia treatment has mainly evolved around potential atrophy-inducing roles of inflammatory mediators, and in cancer patients, tumor-derived factors. Recently, a new paradigm emerged as it is becoming evident that specific immune cells inhabit atrophic muscle tissue. Arginase 1 (Arg1) expression is characteristic of these immune cells. Studies of potential contributions of these immune cells to loss of muscle mass and function is in its infancy, and the contribution of ARG1 to these processes remains elusive. METHODS: Analyses of RNA sequencing data from murine cachexia models and comprehensive, unbiased open approach proteomics analyses of skeletal myotubes was performed. In vitro techniques were employed to evaluate mitochondrial function and capacity in skeletal muscle cells and cardiomyocytes. Functional bioassays were used to measure autophagy activity. ARG1 level in patients' plasma was evaluated using ELISA, and the association between ARG1 level and patient survival, across multiple types of cancer, was examined using the online database Kaplan-Meier plotter. RESULTS: In line with arginine-degrading activity of ARG1, we found signs of arginine restriction in atrophic muscles. In response to arginine restriction, mitochondrial functions and ATP generation was severely compromised in both skeletal muscle cells and in cardiomyocytes. In skeletal muscle cells, arginine restriction enhanced the expression of autophagic proteins, suggesting autophagic degradation of cellular content. Reduction in mitochondria marker TIMM23 supports selective autophagic degradation of mitochondria (mitophagy). In arginine starved cardiomyocytes, mitochondrial dysfunction is accompanied by both increased bulk autophagy and mitophagy. In cancer patients, we found an association between ARG1 expression and accelerated weight loss and reduced survival, further supporting a role of ARG1-producing cells in cachexia pathogenesis. CONCLUSION: Together, our findings point to a mechanism for cachexia which depends on expansion of ARG1-expressing myeloid cells, local restriction of arginine, loss of mitochondrial capacity and induced catabolism in skeletal muscle cells and in the heart.
PXD051896	40476597	Primary Bile Acid Shapes Peripheral Immunity in Inflammatory Bowel Disease-associated Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis. 	Primary sclerosing cholangitis-specific inflammatory bowel disease phenotype is driven by an altered immune system shaped by circulatory markers.	Exploris 480, Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Primary Sclerosing Cholangitis	Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is a chronic cholestatic liver disease often associated with underlying inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). This study investigates how PSC predisposes altered inflammatory immune responses and compared to IBD alone. A case-control study was conducted with a cohort of 75 patients, including 16 with PSC (14 with concomitant IBD), 39 with IBD alone, and 20 controls. Serum bile acid profile, proteomic analysis, and immune-related gene expression in colon tissue were examined. Colonic tissue from PSC patients exhibited upregulation of immune regulation and inflammatory signaling mRNA markers, including LGR5, IL-8, CCL2, COX2, TWIST1, and SNAIL. Additionally, PSC patients displayed a distinct proinflammatory serum proteomic signature and moderate elevation of some bile acids, such as glycochenodeoxycholic acid (GCDCA). Co-incubation of human-derived monocytes with GCDCA partially replicated the inflammatory profile observed in PSC. These findings suggest that circulating bile acids modulate peripheral immune system proinflammatory response, contributing to the unique PSC phenotype.
PXD056159	40480341	Soluble VCAM-1 may serve as a pharmacodynamic CSF marker to monitor BACE2 activity in non-human primates. 	Soluble VCAM-1 may serve as a pharmacodynamic CSF marker to monitor BACE2 activity in non-human primates	Alzheimers disease, BACE1, CSF, Cerebrospinal Fluid, DIA, Macaca fascicularis, VCAM1, labelfree	The beta-secretase beta-site APP cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1) is a major drug target for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Clinically tested BACE1 inhibitors induced unexpected cognitive side effects that may stem from their cross-inhibition of the homologous protease BACE2. Yet, little is known about BACE2 functions and substrates in vivo and no biomarker is available allowing to monitor the extent of BACE2 inhibition in vivo, in particular in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). To identify a potential CSF biomarker for monitoring BACE2 activity, we analyzed the CSF proteome changes of non-human primates after treatment with a BACE1-selective inhibitor (a brain-targeted monoclonal antibody) in comparison to verubecestat, a clinically tested small molecule drug inhibiting both BACE1 and BACE2. Acute treatment with either the antibody or verubecestat similarly reduced CSF abundance of the cleavage products of several known BACE1 substrates, including SEZ6, gp130 and CACHD1, demonstrating similar target engagement in vivo. One CSF protein, vascular cell adhesion protein 1 (VCAM-1), was only reduced upon inhibition with verubecestat, but not upon BACE1-selective inhibition with the antibody. We conclude that VCAM-1 is a promising biomarker candidate for monitoring BACE2 inhibition in CSF, which is instrumental for the development of BACE1-selective inhibitors for the prevention of AD.
PXD050282	40480612	Mast cells modulate macrophage biology through release of pre-stored CSF1. 	Mast cells modulate macrophage through release of Csf1	Macrophage differentiation, Macrophage polarisation, Mast cell proteome, secretome	BACKGROUND: Mast cells are tissue-resident immune cells present in connective tissues throughout the body. They exert diverse functions in immunity by rapidly releasing a plethora of preformed mediators, including proteoglycans, cytokines, and proteases, which are stored in cytoplasmic granules. OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to systematically and globally identify mast cell-released protein mediators and elucidate their functions. METHODS: We analysed the secretomes of antigen-activated primary mouse mast cells using quantitative mass spectrometry-based proteomics and conducted follow-up studies in vitro, ex vivo and using mast cell-specific genetic mouse models. RESULTS: We identified CSF1 as a novel preformed mast cell mediator present in the granules of all connective tissue-type mast cells. We further show that the mast cell secretome can induce macrophage differentiation and a unique polarisation pattern via CSF1 and other mediators. Mast cell-derived CSF1 has systemic functions, as mast cell-specific CSF1-deficient mice have lower serum CSF1 levels and reduced numbers of circulating monocytes. In addition, using an orthotopic transplantation-based melanoma mouse model, we show that loss of mast cell-derived CSF1 promotes cancer cell expansion. Finally, we demonstrate that CSF1 is also prestored and released by human mast cells. CONCLUSION: CSF1 is an evolutionarily conserved, constitutive mast cell granule component. Mast cell degranulation induces macrophage differentiation and a unique polarisation state, the former being completely dependent on CSF1, while the latter is only modulated.
PXD055705	40480980	TANGO2 binds crystallin alpha B and its loss causes desminopathy. 	TANGO2 binds crystallin alpha B and its loss causes desminopathy	TANGO2, desminopathy, mitochondria	Mutations in the TANGO2 gene cause an autosomal recessive disorder characterised by developmental delay, stress-induced episodic rhabdomyolysis, and cardiac arrhythmias along with severe metabolic crises. Although TANGO2 mutations result in a well characterised disease pathology, the function of TANGO2 is still unknown. To investigate the function of TANGO2, we knocked out the TANGO2 gene in human cells and mice. We identify that loss of TANGO2 impairs intermediate filament structure, resulting in fragmented mitochondrial networks and formation of cup-like mitochondria. In male mice, loss of TANGO2 caused heart defects, reduced muscle function and glucose intolerance by remodelling of intermediate filaments, which altered the mitochondrial and cytoplasmic proteomes, N-glycosylation and nucleocytoplasmic O-GlcNAcylation. We identify that TANGO2 binds the small heat shock protein crystallin alpha B (CRYAB) to prevent the aggregation of the intermediate filament desmin and in the absence of TANGO2, mice develop desminopathy, which is consistent with features found in patients carrying mutations in either desmin or CRYAB.
PXD051164	40481240	PCM1 orchestrates centrosomal and flagellar protein transport to promote sperm maturation. 	Testicular Proteomics of PCM1 knockdown mice	PCM1, testis	Centriolar satellites facilitate the delivery of proteins required for centrosome assembly and function, and rely on the nucleation of the scaffold protein pericentriolar material 1 (PCM1). During sperm maturation, centrosomes undergo remodeling to facilitate neckpiece formation and flagellogenesis. However, the role and mechanism of PCM1 in centrosome remodeling and sperm maturation remain to be elucidated. Herein we show that PCM1 is downregulated in patients with non-obstructive azoospermia. Pcm1 knockout mice exhibit disrupted spermiogenesis, characterized by a disorganized manchette and head-tail coupling apparatus, defective flagellogenesis, and male infertility. Mechanistically, PCM1 binds centrosomal proteins and governs their precise translocation via intra-manchette transport, ensuring proper centrosome remodeling and axoneme biogenesis. Inactivation of PCM1 in sperm leads to severe retardation of embryo development, which cannot be overcome by intra-cytoplasmic sperm injection. Collectively, these findings establish PCM1 as a key regulator of spermatogenesis and spermiogenesis, highlighting the contribution of sperm centrosome-related proteins to embryo development and fertility.
PXD059600	40481275	Convergent evolution of antibiotic resistance mechanisms between pyrrolobenzodiazepines and albicidin in multidrug resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae. 	Convergent evolution of antibiotic resistance mechanisms between synthetic pyrrolobenzodiazepines (PBDs) and the naturally occurring albicidin in multidrug resistant Klebsiella pneumoniae	Gram-negative bacteria, Klebsiella pneumoniae, albicidin, antimicrobial resistance, multidrug resistance, pyrrolobenzodiazepines (PBDs)	Pyrrolobenzodiazepines (PBDs) containing C8-linked aliphatic heterocycles have been developed as a new class of potent antibacterial compounds. They are active against multidrug resistant Gram-negative pathogens, including Klebsiella pneumoniae. When isolates were exposed to PBDs, they acquired resistance, with significant increases in inhibitory concentrations. Resistant strains showed mutations in genes associated with resistance to albicidin, specifically tsx and merR-family regulator albA. Heterologous expression of AlbA in E. coli and introducing the L120Q AlbA resistance-mediating modification into the genome of a sensitive K. pneumoniae strain conferred PBD and albicidin resistance. Proteomic analysis of the resistant strains showed elevated AlbA protein levels compared to isogenic wild-type strains. Crystallographic studies with the antibiotic binding domain of AlbA show binding of KMR-14-14 to the same groove shown to bind albicidin. Given the parallels between these two structurally unrelated compound classes, AlbA may offer resistance to further antibiotics and should be considered in future antibiotic discovery.
PXD059934	40481930	Proteome cargo and functional heterogeneity of extracellular vesicles derived from stem cells and differentiated cells of human trabecular meshwork. 	Small Extracellular Vesicles Derived from Human Trabecular Meshwork Stem Cells are distinct from TM Cells in their Proteome Cargo and Function	Trabecular meshwork stem cells, glaucoma, small extracellular vesicles	BACKGROUND: Glaucoma, an optic neuropathy, is the second leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide. Wound healing efficiency and anti-oxidant potential of the small extracellular vesicles (sEV) isolated from the adult tissue-resident stem cells of the trabecular meshwork (TMSC) compared to trabecular meshwork (TM) cells have been demonstrated. This study aimed to compare the protein profile of extracellular vesicles derived from TMSCs and TM cells for a better understanding of their potential as a cell-free therapeutic agent for primary open angle glaucoma (POAG). METHODS AND RESULTS: Proteins were isolated from TM and TMSC sEV samples (n = 3 each) and proteomic profiling was carried out by mass spectrometry. Mass spectrometry analysis identified 2802 proteins in TMSC sEV and 2848 in TM sEV. Differential expression analysis identified distinct protein profiles between TMSC and TM sEV. Notably, sEV from TMSCs were enriched with proteins associated with wound healing, cell proliferation, migration, anti-oxidant, and anti-apoptotic activities, consistent with the findings in other mesenchymal stem cells. Pathway analysis highlighted the enrichment of proteins associated with PI3K-AKT and MAPK signaling pathways. Further validation by western blotting confirmed that TMSC sEV effectively modulated these pathways in TM cells, which are essential for cell proliferation and survival under oxidative stress. CONCLUSION: To our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive protein profiling of TMSC-derived sEV, demonstrating the presence of functional proteins and their capacity to regulate the MAPK and PI3K-AKT signaling pathways in the recipient TM cells. This highlights the potential of TMSC sEV in advancing cell-free therapeutic strategies for POAG in future.
PXD064042	40483302	The secreted protease ADAMTS18 is a novel activator of latent TGF-beta to exacerbate renal fibrosis. 	Quantitative proteomic analysis of UUO-14d kidneys from Adamts18+/+ versus Adamts18/ mice using label-free LC-MS/MS	14 days, Adamts18 knockout, Kidney, Label-free Quantitative Proteomics, UUO	Renal fibrosis (RF) is an inevitable consequence of almost all forms of progressive chronic kidney disease (CKD). TGFbeta is a powerful cytokine capable of dominating the fibrotic process. Targeting factors capable of activating latent TGF-beta is a more effective and safe strategy to reduce TGF-beta-induced fibrosis, but appropriate targets need to be identified. Here, we show that ADAMTS18/Adamts18 is significantly upregulated in the fibrotic kidneys of human CKD patients and mice. ADAMTS18 is primarily produced by renal tubular epithelial cells and fibroblasts during RF. Functionally, Adamts18 deletion inhibits epithelial-mesenchymal transition, inflammation, and collagen synthesis. Conversely, Adamts18 overexpression exacerbates progressive renal fibrosis. Mechanistically, the KPFR sequence in ADAMTS18 disrupts the latency-associated peptide (LAP) interaction with TGF-beta and increases the release of mature TGF-beta1. Blockage of ADAMTS18-mediated latent TGF-beta activation by a tetrapeptide (LSKL) effectively reverses RF. Collectively, ADAMTS18 is a novel LAP-TGF-beta1 activator with the potential to optimize CKD treatment strategies.
PXD058210	40483364	Costs of photosynthesis and cellular remodeling in trophic transitions of the unicellular red alga Galdieria partita. 	Proteome analysis of photoautotrophic and heterotrophic cells in a red alga Galdieria partita	Cyanidiophyceae, Galdieria, heterotrophy, microalgae, photoautotrophy, red algae	As in plastid differentiation in land plants, some unicellular algae reversibly remodel photosynthetic plastids into a colorless heterotrophic state (bleaching) in the presence of organic carbon sources. To understand these mechanisms and their significance, we performed comparative omics analyses on the photoautotrophic and heterotrophic states and their transitions in the genetically tractable red alga Galdieria partita. Photoautotrophic cells require 1.5, 1.3 and 1.7 times more nitrogen, protein, and fatty acids than heterotrophic cells. In the photoautotrophic cells, plastid- and nucleus-encoded proteins for photosynthesis are highly synthesized, while in the heterotrophic state, cytoplasmic and mitochondrial proteins are more abundant, enabling 1.6 times faster growth. Changes in non-plastid metabolic enzymes are limited, with some upregulated in the photoautotrophic state to support fatty acid and glycolipid synthesis in the plastid for thylakoid membranes. In contrast, solute transporters show broader changes. Bleaching occurs upon adding certain sugars or sugar alcohols, regardless of light, not by active digestion of photosynthetic machinery, but by dilution due to suppressed synthesis at the transcriptional level and faster cell growth. Thus, when assimilable organic carbon is available, the cells repress the synthesis of proteins, lipids, and pigments for photosynthesis, reallocating resources to promote faster growth.
PXD054253	40483507	Contrasting Becker and Duchenne muscular dystrophy serum biomarker candidates by using data independent acquisition LC-MS/MS. 	Monitoring Biomarker Study in Becker Muscular Dystrophy using Data Independent Acquisition LC-MS/MS	Becker muscular dystrophy, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, dystrophinopathy, rare disease	BACKGROUND: Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD) is a rare and heterogeneous form of dystrophinopathy caused by expression of altered dystrophin proteins, as a consequence of in-frame genetic mutations. The majority of the BMD biomarker studies employ targeted approaches and focus on translating findings from Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy (DMD), a more severe disease form with clinical similarities but caused by out-of-frame mutations in the dystrophin gene. Importantly, DMD therapies assume that disease progression can be slowed by promoting the expression of truncated dystrophin comparable to what occurs in BMD patients. In this study, we explore similarities and differences in protein trajectories over time between BMD and DMD serum, and explore proteins related to motor function performance. METHODS: Serum samples collected from 34 BMD patients, in a prospective longitudinal 3-year study, and 19 DMD patients, were analyzed by using Data Independent Acquisition Tandem Mass Spectrometry (DIA-MS). Subsequent normalization, linear mixed effects model was employed to identify proteins associated with physical tests and dystrophin expression in skeletal muscle. Analysis was also performed to explore the discrepancy between DMD and BMD biomarker abundance trajectories over time. RESULTS: Linear mixed effects models identified 20 proteins with altered longitudinal signatures between DMD and BMD, including creatine kinase M-type (CKM) pyruvate kinase (PKM), fibrinogen gamma chain (FGG), lactate dehydrogenase B (LDHB) and alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M). Furthermore, several proteins related to innate immune response were associated with motor function in BMD patients. In particular, A2M displayed an altered time-dependent decline in relation to dystrophin expression in the tibialis anterior muscle. CONCLUSIONS: Our study revealed differences in the serum proteome between BMD and DMD, which comprises proteins involved in the immune response, extracellular matrix organization and hemostasis but not muscle leakage proteins significantly associated with disease progression in DMD. If further evaluated and validated, these biomarker candidates may offer means to monitor disease progression in BMD patients. A2M is of particular interest due to its association with dystrophin expression in BMD muscle and higher abundance in DMD patients in comparison to BMD. If validated, A2M could be used as a pharmacodynamic biomarker in therapeutic clinical trials aiming to restore dystrophin expression.
PXD057236	40484959	PorV factor of the type IX secretion system and PosF porin act as adhesins in Riemerella anatipestifer infection. 	Adhesins, which could adhere to the duck embryo cell that belongs to the outer membrane proteins of Riemerella anatipestifer RA-YM strain sequencing by mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)	Riemerella anatipestifer, adhesin, outer membrane proteins	Riemerella anatipestifer infection is a critical disease that is a major threat to the poultry industry worldwide. The adhesion and invasion of host cells are key steps in the primary stages of bacterial infection. However, the outer membrane proteins that mediate these events in R. anatipestifer are poorly characterized. In this study, the PorV and PosF proteins, as well as the previously described OMP71 protein, were identified as important mediators of the adhesion and invasion of duck embryo fibroblast (DEF) cells by R. anatipestifer. Affinity chromatography-based surface proteomics was used to screen for adhesion proteins. The surface proteins on DEF cells were labelled with biotin-avidin to enrich for outer membrane proteins of R. anatipestifer, which generated 11 candidate proteins that were tested further. Protein adhesion and blocking assays and polyclonal antiserum inhibition analysis revealed that the PorV, PosF, and OMP71 proteins are adhesion factors. Knockout of porV or posF reduced the adhesion and invasion of R. anatipestifer in DEF cells. Moreover, the pathogenicity of the mutant strains was significantly attenuated, which supports the hypothesis that PorV and PosF are important virulence factors required for the pathogenicity of R. anatipestifer. The PorV protein is a key component of the type IX secretory system and is responsible for transporting effector substrates to the extracellular environment, whereas PosF belongs to the porin superfamily of barrel-shaped transmembrane proteins. This is the first description that PorV is an adhesin involved in host-microbial interactions, which represents a breakthrough in pathogenicity studies of R. anatipestifer and other members of Flavobacteriaceae.
PXD049142	40485562	Fat body-derived cytokine Upd2 controls disciplined migration of tracheal stem cells in Drosophila. 	Drosophila tracheal cell mass spectrum data	Drosophila, tracheal	Coordinated activation and directional migration of adult stem cells are essential for maintaining tissue homeostasis. Drosophila tracheal progenitors are adult stem cells that migrate posteriorly along the dorsal trunk to replenish degenerating branches that disperse the fibroblast growth factor mitogen. However, it is currently unknown how the overall anterior-to-posterior directionality of such migration is controlled. Here, we show that individual progenitor cells migrate together in a concerted, disciplined manner, a behavior that is dependent on the neighboring fat body. We identify the fat body-derived cytokine, Upd2, in targeting and inducing JAK/STAT signaling in tracheal progenitors to maintain their directional migration. Perturbation of either Upd2 production in fat body or JAK/STAT signaling in trachea causes aberrant bidirectional migration of tracheal progenitors. We show that JAK/STAT signaling promotes the expression of genes involved in planar cell polarity leading to asymmetric localization of Fat in progenitor cells. We provide evidence that Upd2 transport requires Rab5- and Rab7-mediated endocytic sorting and Lbm-dependent vesicle trafficking. Our study thus uncovers an inter-organ communication in the control of disciplined migration of tracheal progenitor cells, a process that requires vesicular trafficking of fat body-derived cytokine Upd2 and JAK/STAT signaling-mediated activation of PCP genes.
PXD046746	40487285	Circulating Levels of the Proinflammatory Monomeric Isoform of C-Reactive Protein (mCRP) Correlate with Intra-Tumoral mCRP Abundance in Stage II-III Colon Cancer Patients. 	Circulating levels of the proinflammatory monomeric isoform of C-reactive protein (mCRP) correlate with intra-tumoral mCRP abundance in stage II-III colon cancer patients	C-reative protein, Colon cancer, biomarker, inflammation, monomeric C-reactive protein	Purpose: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most common type of cancer worldwide. The link between inflammation and CRC is well established. Elevated levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) upon diagnosis is a known negative prognostic factor for CRC patients. Monomeric CRP (mCRP) has been demonstrated in tissues of several diseases associated with inflammation, including colon cancer (CC). mCRP possesses proinflammatory properties and is a possible mediator of tumor-promoting inflammation. This study aimed to detect and quantify circulating mCRP and assess potential correlations with clinical CRP and intra-tumoral mCRP in CC patients. Patients and Methods: Forty patients treated for stage II-III CC between 2012 and 2015 at Sorlandet Hospital, Norway, were included in the study. Twenty patients had CRP level <10 mg/l and 20 patients had CRP >=10 mg/l, measured routinely at diagnosis (clinical CRP). EDTA plasma was used for mCRP detection by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA; n = 40) and mass spectrometry (MS; n = 20) (MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD046746). Tumor mCRP abundance was classified into three categories by reference scoring, using an antigen-retrieval technique on formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue samples (n = 29). Results: Circulating mCRP levels were detectable by both ELISA and MS. Median mCRP level measured by ELISA was 2.55 ng/mL, while the MS analysis detected 19.02 ng/mL. Both analyses exhibited significant correlations with clinical CRP (ELISA, p = 0.012; MS, p < 0.001). Intra-tumoral mCRP correlated with circulating mCRP measured by MS (p < 0.001) and with clinical CRP (p < 0.001). Conclusion: To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of mCRP in the circulation of cancer patients. By employing two different analytical methods, mCRP was reliably detected in CC patients. Patients with elevated circulating mCRP measured by MS had higher intra-tumoral mCRP abundance. The interesting correlation of circulating and intra-tumoral mCRP levels may represent another facet of the interplay between local and systemic inflammation in CC patients.
PXD061319	40487857	Dehydroglutathione, a glutathione derivative to introduce non-reversible glutathionylation. 	Dehydroglutathione to induce glutathione modification in protein	Dehydroglutathione, FABP5, glutathionylation	Protein cysteine is susceptible to diverse oxidations, including disulfide, S-sulfenylation, S-nitrosylation, and S-glutathionylation, that regulate many biological processes in physiology and diseases. Despite evidence supporting distinct biological outcomes of individual cysteine oxoforms, the approach for examining functional effects resulting from a specific cysteine oxoform, such as S-glutathionylation, remains limited. In this report, we devised a dehydroglutathione (dhG)-mediated strategy, named G-PROV, that introduces a non-reducible glutathionylation mimic to the protein with the subsequent delivery of the modified protein to cells to examine the "phenotype" attributed to "glutathionylation". We applied our strategy to fatty acid binding protein 5 (FABP5), demonstrating that dhG induces selective modification at C127 of FABP5, resembling S-glutathionylation. dhG-modified glutathionylation in FABP5 increases its binding affinity to linoleic acid, enhances its translocation to the nucleus for activating PPARbeta/delta, and promotes MCF7 cell migration in response to linoleic acid. Our data report a facile chemical tool to introduce a glutathionylation mimic to proteins for functional analysis of protein glutathionylation.
PXD063872	40488057	Characterization of the Biological Effect Mediated by Mycobacterial Kinase PknG on Protein Phosphorylation and Acetylation. 	Systematic investigation into the dynamic alterations in the proteome and phosphoproteome of mycobacteria following overexpression of PknG	Acetylation, Mycobacteria, Phosphorylation, PknG	Tuberculosis (TB) remains a significant global public health challenge, with post-translational modifications (PTMs) in mycobacteria being integral to physiological processes, pathogenesis, and drug resistance mechanisms. Protein kinase G (PknG), the only reported secreted kinase in mycobacteria, is associated with virulence, immune evasion, and drug resistance. Nevertheless, the comprehensive range of proteins and phosphorylation modifications regulated by PknG in mycobacteria has not yet been fully elucidated. This study conducted a systematic investigation into the dynamic alterations in the proteome and phosphoproteome of mycobacteria following the overexpression of PknG. A comprehensive analysis identified 3836 proteins and 467 phosphorylation sites, revealing the regulatory role of MsPknG in energy metabolism pathways and binding processes. Additionally, the study highlighted the interplay between protein phosphorylation and lysine acetylation, noting a reduction in lysine acetylation that is linked to carbon metabolism and various energy-related pathways in the MsPknG overexpression strains. The role of MsPknG in growth, infection, and the secretion of the inflammatory factor was further investigated, providing new insights into phosphorylation functions within mycobacteria and potential clinical targets for tuberculosis treatment. The study additionally provides an innovative perspective on the interplay between post-translational modifications in mycobacteria.
PXD050444	40488439	Circulating Tumor Cells Shed Shearosome Extracellular Vesicles in Capillary Bifurcations That Activate Endothelial and Immune Cells. 	Circulating tumour cells shed large extracellular vesicles in capillary-scale bifurcations	Large extracellular vesicles	Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) and their clusters are the cellular drivers of metastasis. This study uses microfluidic models mimicking human capillary bifurcations to better understand how these cells interact with capillary beds. Patient CTCs, CTC-derived explant cells, and numerous cancer cell lines shed nuclei-free fragments in a cell size- and bifurcation-dependent manner. These shedding events, which reduces cell sizes up to 61%, facilitate CTC transit through bifurcations. The shed fragments are a novel subclass of large extracellular vesicles (LEVs) that we name "shearosomes" based on their requirement of shear stress for their biogenesis, and whose proteome is associated with immune-related pathways. Shearosomes exhibit functions that are characteristic of previously identified extracellular vesicles (EVs), including cell-directed internalization by endothelial and immune cells, and intercellular communication capabilities such as disruption of endothelial barrier integrity, polarization of monocytes toward M2 tumor-promoting macrophages, and mediating interactions between endothelial and immune cells. These findings suggest that CTCs shed shearosomes within capillary beds that affect cells implicated in the metastatic cascade.
PXD061818	40489604	Decreasing protein biotinylation background in a diatom facilitates proximity labeling of the periplastidial compartment proteome. 	Decreasing Protein Biotinylation Background in a Diatom Facilitates Proximity Labeling of the Periplastidial Compartment Proteome	Phaeodactylum tricornutum, TurboID, algae, biotin synthase, chloroplast, periplastidial compartment, protein biotinylation, proximity labeling	Diatoms are ecologically and industrially significant microalgae, crucial for global carbon fixation and biotechnological applications. Their complex plastid membrane structures, resulting from secondary endosymbiosis, remain poorly characterized, particularly the periplastidial compartment (PPC). Proximity labeling techniques, such as TurboID and ascorbate peroxidase 2 (APEX2)-based labeling, are powerful tools for identifying protein-protein interactions and spatial proteomes, but their application in diatoms is hindered by unknown factors. In this study, we identified and characterized the high biotinylation background in diatoms, including Phaeodactylum tricornutum and other microalgae, which significantly impairs the effectiveness of proximity labeling. We also characterized the biotin synthase (BIOB) in P. tricornutum, a key enzyme in biotin biosynthesis. By using a biob mutant to deplete biotin, we successfully decreased the biotinylation background, enhancing the sensitivity and quality of proximity labeling. Applying this approach to the PPC, we identified several proteins previously undetectable through bioinformatics and confocal microscopy. Our results demonstrate that inhibiting biotin synthesis improves TurboID-based proximity labeling methods for studying protein interactions and spatial proteomics in diatoms. The case study of the improved proximity labeling system in PPC also increased our understanding of the complex plastids derived from higher-order endosymbiosis.
PXD051570	40489665	Proteome and Phosphoproteome of Tomato Fruit Identify REDUCED CHLOROPLAST COVERAGE 1a as A Ripening Regulator. 	Ripening stage-resolved proteome and phosphoproteome profiling of tomato fruits reveals the involvement of reduced chloroplast coverage protein REC1a in fruit ripening	REC1, chloroplast, chromoplast, fruit, phosphoproteome, plastid, ripening, tomato	Fruit ripening in tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) has been extensively studied at the transcriptomics level. However, comprehensive profiling of the tomato fruit proteome and phosphoproteome remains limited. In this study, we performed large-scale proteome and phosphoproteome profiling of tomato (Ailsa Craig) fruits across five ripening stages using tandem mass tags (TMT)-based quantitative proteomics. Our analysis quantified over 8800 proteins and 20,000 high-confidence phosphorylation sites. Ripening-associated phosphorylation and dephosphorylation events were identified in diverse ripening regulators, including transcription factors, ethylene biosynthesis and signaling proteins, and epigenetic modifiers. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) revealed a tetratricopeptide repeat protein, REDUCED CHLOROPLAST COVERAGE 1a (REC1a), as a key regulator of fruit ripening. Parallel reaction monitoring (PRM)-based targeted proteomic analysis validated the expression profiles of REC1a and its three phosphorylation sites. Clustered regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats (CRISPR)-CRISPR-associated protein 9 (Cas9)-mediated knockout of REC1a resulted in reduced lycopene accumulation and slower chlorophyll degradation, highlighting its role in the chloroplast-to-chromoplast transition, which is critical for fruit pigmentation during ripening. Quantitative proteomic analyses of rec1a mutants demonstrated reduced levels of Clp proteases and chaperones, proteins known to regulate plastid transitions. Additionally, co-immunoprecipitation and split-luciferase complementation assays revealed that REC1a interacts with the eukaryotic translation initiation factor subunits eIF2alpha and eIF2Bbeta, suggesting its role in regulating protein synthesis during ripening. This study provides the most comprehensive quantitative proteome and phosphoproteome atlas of tomato fruits to date and identifies REC1a as a novel regulator of plastid development, offering new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying fruit ripening.
PXD060129	40490532	TIR immune signalling is blocked by phosphorylation to maintain plant growth. 	SNC1 phosphorylation sites invivo LC-MSMS	SNC1	Toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) domain proteins are immune signalling components and function as NAD(+)-cleaving enzymes to activate defence responses. In plants, TIR activation triggers cell death and severely represses growth, especially under osmotic stress, while in animals, it promotes axon degeneration. However, the mechanisms regulating TIR suppression remain unclear. Here we show that TIR NADase activity requires a conserved serine residue spatially close to the catalytic glutamate. The osmotic-stress-activated plant Ca(2+)-dependent protein kinases (CPKs), the mammalian Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II delta (CAMK2D) and TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1) phosphorylate TIR domains at this conserved serine, which blocks TIR NADase activities and functions, thereby maintaining growth in plants and suppressing SARM1 TIR signalling in animals. Our findings define a fundamental molecular mechanism by which phosphorylation at a conserved serine residue inhibits TIR signalling in plants and animals and sustains plant growth.
PXD054672	40492240	Structural and functional characterization of the cardiac mitochondria-associated reticular membranes in the ob/ob mouse model. 	MS-based quantitative proteomic analysis of MAM from WT and obese mice.	diabetic cardiomyopathy, mitochondria-associated reticular membranes (MAM), nanoLC-MS/MS, obesity	Type 2 diabetes (T2D) and obesity strongly lead to diabetic cardiomyopathy (DCM). The involvement of mitochondria-associated reticular membranes (MAMs), a signaling hub in the cardiomyocyte, starts to be demonstrated in T2D-related metabolic disorders. We recently discovered a cardiac MAM Ca(2+) uncoupling in a high-fat high-sucrose diet (HFHSD)-induced mouse model of DCM. To better determine the role of MAMs in the progression of DCM, we here aimed to characterize the proteomic composition and function of the cardiac MAMs of another obesogenic T2D mouse model, the leptin-deficient ob/ob mouse. 12-week old male C57Bl6-N ob/ob mice displayed strain rate dysfunction and concentric remodeling, while no change was observed in fractional shortening or diastolic function. Increased lipid deposition but no fibrosis was measured in the ob/ob heart compared to WT. Electron microscopy analysis revealed that cardiac MAM length and width were similar between both groups. A trend towards an increased MAM protein content was measured in the ob/ob heart. MAM proteome analyses showed mainly increased processes in ob/ob hearts: cellular response to stress, lipid metabolism, ion transport and membrane organization. Functionally, MAM-driven Ca(2+) fluxes were unchanged but hypoxic stress induced a cell death increase in the ob/ob cardiomyocyte. Mitochondrial respiration, cardiomyocyte shortening, ATP and ROS content were similar between groups. To conclude, at that age, while being strongly hyperglycemic and insulin-resistant, the ob/ob mouse model rather displays a modest DCM without strong changes in MAMs: preserved structural and functional MAM Ca(2+) coupling but increased response to stress.
PXD051619	40493342	Unraveling Predominantly Inattentive ADHD (ADHD-PI): Insights from Proteomic Analysis of the Striatum of Thyroid Hormone-Responsive Protein (THRSP)-Overexpressing Mice. 	Striatal proteomics offers clues on the inattention in early adult THRSP-overexpressing mice: Involvement of Snap25 gene	Adult ADHD, Animal model, SNARE complex, Snap25, THRSP-OE mice, Thyroid hormone-response protein	Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, or ADHD, is a neurodevelopmental disorder with poorly understood molecular mechanisms. Recent studies have proposed that gene expression involved in regulating synaptic transmission in the striatum may play a role in ADHD pathogenesis. To explore the molecular basis of ADHD, we utilized proteomic analysis using whole striatal tissues from early adult thyroid hormone-responsive protein-overexpressing (THRSP-OE) mice, which displayed defining characteristics of predominantly inattentive ADHD (ADHD-PI). We focused on the striatal brain region due to its critical role in the regulation of attention, motivation, and reward processing. Moreover, the striatum modulates dopaminergic pathways that are known to be impaired in ADHD. Our analysis revealed an innate overexpression of Snap25 protein in THRSP-OE mice, indicating possible alterations in the SNARE protein complex and potential neurotransmitter dysregulation. Furthermore, a binding affinity study showed reduced dopamine D1 receptor binding concentrations and pronounced low dopamine levels in THRSP-OE mice. Repeated seven-day injections of methylphenidate improved the low dopamine levels, reducing the EEG theta/beta ratio in this animal model. These findings suggest new markers specific to the ADHD-PI presentation and further support the role of Snap25 dysregulation and possible SNARE protein complex alterations in ADHD-PI.
PXD046643	40493405	Cytoskeleton-associated protein 4 (CKAP4) affects podocyte cytoskeleton dynamics in diabetic kidney disease. 	Cytoskeleton-associated protein 4 (CKAP4) affects podocyte cytoskeleton dynamics in diabetic kidney disease.	CKAP4, cytoskeleton, diabetic kidney disease, integrins, microtubules, podocytes	Podocytes are kidney glomerular cells that depend on rigorously regulated cytoskeleton components and integrins to form and maintain the so-called foot processes, apparatuses that attach podocytes to the glomerular basement membrane and connect them to neighboring podocytes. In diabetic kidney disease (DKD) these foot processes are effaced as a result of cytoskeleton dysregulation, a phenomenon that gradually reduces glomerular filtration. Cytoskeleton-associated protein 4 (CKAP4) is a known linker between the endoplasmic reticulum, integrins and microtubular cytoskeleton. Since CKAP4 gene expression is downregulated in glomeruli from DKD patients but not in other chronic kidney diseases, we hypothesized a role for CKAP4 in the mechanisms leading to foot process effacement (FPE) in DKD. CKAP4 mRNA reduction in podocytes in DKD was demonstrated in human kidney biopsies. Knockdown of CKAP4 in vivo in zebrafish resulted in edema, proteinuria and foot process effacement, all typical features of DKD. Knockdown of CKAP4 in vitro led to disruption of the actin cytoskeleton and of the microtubular orientation. Moreover, it caused a downregulation of several integrins. These findings indicate that CKAP4 is crucial for foot process dynamics of podocytes. Its reduction, unique to DKD, is mechanistically connected to the pathophysiological processes leading to podocyte FPE.
PXD055486	40493856	Proteomic Analysis of the Extracellular Matrix in the Porcine Adrenal Cortex. 	Proteomic analysis of the extracellular matrix in the porcine adrenal cortex	Extracellular matrix, adrenal cortex, adrenal gland, porcine	The extracellular matrix (ECM) is a complex network of proteins that provides structural support and influences tissue boundaries, biomechanical properties, and cell polarity. This study analyzed the ECM profile of the porcine adrenal cortex's outer (OF = capsule + subcapsular + zona glomerulosa cells) and inner fractions (IF = zona fasciculata cells). Proteomic analysis of decellularized OF and IF samples identified 940 proteins, 27 collagens, 44 ECM glycoproteins, 9 proteoglycans, 20 ECM regulators, 5 ECM-associated proteins, 6 secreted factors, and 39 ECM candidates to compose the specific porcine adrenal matrisome. Among the ECM proteins identified, 113 are common to the OF and IF, while 16 were identified only in the OF and 21 in the IF. The analysis of protein abundance differences showed three proteins (Lamc1, Perlecan, and Tgm2) significantly abundant in OF compared to IF. In IF, 11 proteins (Col1alpha1, Col1alpha2, Col6alpha1, Col6alpha2, Col6alpha3, Col6alpha6, Col14alpha1, Ecm1, Fga, Fgb, and Fgg) were more abundant than OF. The comparative analysis of the quantification ECM proteins from the decellularized adrenal cortex of rats, humans, and pigs showed that in porcine samples, the ECM-quantified proteins are more abundant in the IF, while in rats and human samples, the more abundant ECM-quantified proteins are in the OF. These findings provide valuable insights into the potential of using pigs as a biomedical model and an essential tool for translational medical research.
PXD057918	40493858	Protein Sequencing with Single Amino Acid Resolution Discerns Peptides That Discriminate Tropomyosin Proteoforms. 	Protein sequencing with single amino acid resolution discerns peptides that discriminate tropomyosin proteoforms	Amino acid variant, alternative splicing, genetic variants, isobaric peptides, phosphorylation, proteoforms, proteogenomics, recognizer-based sequencing, single-molecule peptide sequencing, tropomyosin	Protein variants of the same gene-proteoforms-can have high molecular similarity yet exhibit different biological functions. Thus, the identification of unique peptides that unambiguously map to proteoforms can provide crucial biological insights. In humans, four human tropomyosin (TPM) genes produce similar proteoforms that can be challenging to distinguish with standard proteomics tools. For example, TPM1 and TPM2 share 85% sequence identity with amino acid substitutions that play unique roles in muscle contraction and myopathies. In this study, we evaluated the ability of the recently released Platinum single-molecule protein sequencer to detect proteoform-informative peptides. Platinum employs fluorophore-labeled recognizers that reversibly bind to cognate N-terminal amino acids (NAAs), enabling polypeptide sequencing within nanoscale apertures of a semiconductor chip that can accommodate single peptide molecules. As a proof of concept, we evaluated the ability of Platinum to distinguish three main types of proteoform variation: paralogue-level, transcript-level, and post-translational modification (PTM). We distinguished paralogous TPM1 and TPM2 peptides differing in a single isobaric residue (leucine/isoleucine). We also distinguished tissue-specific TPM2 spliceforms. Notably, we found that a phosphotyrosine-modified peptide displayed a reduced recognizer affinity for tyrosine, showing sensitivity to PTMs. This study paves the way for the targeted detection of proteoform biomarkers at the single molecule level.
PXD060228	40497968	Insulin-Degrading Enzyme Regulates mRNA Processing and May Interact with the CCR4-NOT Complex. 	Insulin-degrading enzyme regulates mRNA processing and in-teracts with the CCR4-NOT transcription complex	CCR4-NOT, Insulinase, RNA processing, beta cell, islet of Langerhans, protein homeostasis, timsTOF Pro	Insulin-degrading enzyme is a zinc metalloprotease that degrades low-molecular-weight substrates, including insulin. Ubiquitous expression, high evolutionary conservation, upregulation of Ide in stress situations, and literature findings suggest a broader function of Ide in cell physiology and protein homeostasis that remains to be elucidated. We used proteomics and transcriptomics approaches to search for leads related to a broader role of Ide in protein homeostasis. We combined an analysis of the proteome and single-cell transcriptome of Ide(+/+) and Ide(-/-) pancreatic islet cells with an examination of the interactome of human cytosolic Ide using proximity biotinylation. We observe an upregulation of pathways related to RNA processing, translation and splicing in Ide(+/+) relative to Ide(-/-) islet cells. Corroborating these results and providing a potential mechanistic explanation, proximity biotinylation reveals interaction of Ide with several subunits of CCR4-NOT, a key mRNA deadenylase regulating gene expression "from birth to death". We propose a speculative model in which human and murine Ide cooperate with CCR4-NOT to control protein expression in proteotoxic and metabolic stress situations through cooperation between their deadenylase and protease functions.
PXD058478	40498839	Phage display enables machine learning discovery of cancer antigen-specific TCRs. 	Phage display enables machine learning discovery of cancer antigen specific TCRs	HLA peptides, HLA-A*02:01, immunopeptidomics	T cells targeting epitopes in infectious diseases or cancer play a central role in spontaneous and therapy-induced immune responses. Epitope recognition is mediated by the binding of the T cell receptor (TCR), and TCRs recognizing clinically relevant epitopes are promising for T cell-based therapies. Starting from a TCR targeting the cancer-testis antigen NY-ESO-1157-165 epitope, we built large phage display libraries of TCRs with randomized complementary determining region 3 of the beta chain. The TCR libraries were panned against NY-ESO-1, which enabled us to collect thousands of epitope-specific TCR sequences. Leveraging these data, we trained a machine learning TCR-epitope interaction predictor and identified several epitope-specific TCRs from TCR repertoires. Cellular assays revealed that the predicted TCRs displayed activity toward NY-ESO-1 and no detectable cross-reactivity. Our work demonstrates how display technologies combined with TCR-epitope interaction predictors can effectively leverage large TCR repertoires for TCR discovery.
PXD059125	40498842	Nucleolar beacon for monitoring nucleolar morphology and proteomics in living cells. 	Nucleolar beacon for monitoring nucleolar morphology and proteomics in living cells	Nucleolar beacon, Nucleolar proteomics, Proximity labeling	The nucleolus is essential for ribosome biogenesis and stress regulation. However, because of its dynamic nature, there is still a lack of methods to specifically visualize nucleolar localization in living cells and to study dynamic changes in protein interaction networks within the cell nucleolus. In this study, we identified and engineered a signal peptide sequence, termed nucleolar beacon, which exhibits robust nucleolar localization and universal applicability across various mammalian cell types. Using this sequence, we established nucleolar indicator cell lines and demonstrated their practicality in studying nucleolar functions in living cells. In addition, by combining the signal peptide with proximity labeling technology, we developed an effective approach for capturing the nucleolar proteome and successfully identified nucleolar-associated proteins. These techniques provide effective and versatile tools for investigating nucleolar functions in living cells and offer a potential strategy for drug delivery applications.
PXD062163	40498854	Proteogenomic characterization reveals that lipid droplet formation promotes esophageal squamous cell cancer progression. 	Proteogenomic landscape of the Esophageal Squamous Cell Cancer reveals the lipid droplet formation process as a novel therapeutic target	Esophageal Squamous Cell Cancer, PLIN2, Proteogenomics	Esophageal cancer is one of the most common cancers and a leading cause of cancer-related mortality in the world. Here, we have performed comprehensive characterization of genetic, transcriptomic, proteomic, and phosphoproteomic features in 293 patients with esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC). Chromosome 12q13.13 amplification was correlated with the up-regulation of Janus kinase-signal transducer and activator of transcription pathway and keratins at the protein level in ESCC tissues and associated with poor prognosis in patients with well-differentiated and moderately differentiated ESCC tumors. Patients with poorly differentiated ESCC tumors had infiltration of activated T cells in the tumor microenvironment, suggesting their potential responsiveness to immunotherapy. Chromosome 8q amplification was associated with lymph node metastasis in ESCC tissues, characterized by a switch from noncanonical to canonical WNT signaling. Proteomic classification revealed that the subgroup with the worst prognosis had chromosome 2p amplification and up-regulated lipid metabolism in ESCC tissues at the protein level. Lipid droplet formation induced by perilipin-2 and apolipoprotein E promoted cytokine secretion, which, in turn, recruited T cells and enhanced stromalization, thereby suppressing T cell activation and promoting malignant ESCC progression. This study provides a resource for understanding the development of ESCC and identifying potential therapeutic targets for testing.
PXD055741	40500149	Structural analysis of the lncRNA SChLAP1 reveals protein binding interfaces and a conformationally heterogenous retroviral insertion. 	SChLAP1 pulldown, Hargrove Lab Duke University	IP, astral	The lncRNA Second Chromosome Locus Associated with Prostate 1 (SChLAP1) was previously identified as a predictive biomarker and potential driver of aggressive prostate cancer. Recent work suggested that SChLAP1 may bind the SWI/SNF chromatin remodeling complex to promote prostate cancer metastasis, though the exact role of SWI/SNF recognition is debated. To date, there are no detailed biochemical studies of apo SChLAP1 or SChLAP1:protein complexes. Herein, we report the first secondary structure model of SChLAP1 using SHAPE-MaP in vitro, in cellulo, and ex cellulo (protein-free). Comparison of the ex cellulo and in cellulo data via DeltaSHAPE identified putative protein binding regions within SChLAP1. In addition, phylogenetic analysis revealed that SChLAP1 is a primate-conserved lncRNA, with two exons significantly derived from primate-specific retroviral insertions. In particular, we characterized a complex structural landscape in a protein binding region at the 3'end of SChLAP1 derived from a THE1B-type retroviral insertion, suggesting a role for an exapted RNA structure in SChLAP1:protein recognition and prostate cancer progression. Lastly, pulldowns of SChLAP1 substructures enabled identification of previously unestablished SChLAP1-interacting proteins. This work lays the foundation for future efforts to selectively target and disrupt SChLAP1 structures and/or protein interfaces and to develop new therapeutic avenues in prostate cancer treatment.
PXD042150	40500315	Overcoming intra-tumoral heterogeneity for biomarker discovery in the high-grade serous ovarian cancer proteome. 	Overcoming intra-tumoral heterogeneity for biomarker discovery in the High-Grade Serous Ovarian Cancer proteome	HGSOC, SWATH-MS, cGAS-STING, heterogeneity, muti-omics	Improved biomarkers of treatment response are needed for patients with high-grade serous ovarian cancer (HGSC). A challenge is substantial anatomical site-to-site variation in expression. We completed data-independent acquisition-mass spectrometry (DIA-MS) analysis of 404 fresh frozen and 78 formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded HGSC tissue samples from the ovary (adnexal) and a common secondary site (omentum) in 11 patients. This was compared with mutation testing, gene expression, and whole-genome copy number profiling. Proteins with relatively stable intra- and variable inter-individual expression (n = 1651), included a 52-protein module reflecting interferon-mediated tissue inflammation, indicative of a cGAS-STING pathway cytosolic double-stranded (ds) DNA response. The dsDNA sensing/inflammation score was higher in the omentum compared with the ovary. Ovarian HGSC samples showed marked inter-individual differences in inflammatory and immune responses to DNA damage. Stable discriminative features of the HGSC proteome, a prerequisite for clinical predictive biomarkers, are detectable in ovary (adnexal) tissue samples.
PXD057963	40500573	Mass Spectrometric Analysis of Clomiphene Citrate-induced Changes in the Secretome Profile of PAX8-positive Human Fallopian Tube Secretory Epithelial Cells and Identification of Biomarkers Relevant to Reproduction and Pregnancy. 	Mass Spectrometric Analysis of Clomiphene Citrate-induced Changes in the Secretome Profile of PAX8-positive Human Fallopian Tube Secretory Epithelial Cells and Identification of Biomarkers Relevant to Reproduction and Pregnancy	Ectopic pregnancy, Infertility, Ovulation induction, Selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM)	Clomiphene citrate (CC) is commonly used for infertility treatments, particularly in intrauterine insemination (IUI) and in vitro fertilization (IVF) programs. Despite its effectiveness in inducing ovulation, it is reported to have a low pregnancy rate compared to letrozole. Further, risks of ectopic pregnancy, miscarriage, and fetal malformations have been reported in CC-induced fertility treatment cycles. The present study aimed at understanding whether these effects are associated with CC-induced changes in the secretome profile of the human PAX8-positive fallopian tube secretory epithelial cells (hPFTSECs). Fallopian tube tissues from healthy women who underwent postpartum tubectomy were enzymatically dissociated and cultured with CC, and their secretomes were analyzed by Liquid Chromatography Tandem Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) to identify CC-induced alterations. Proteomic analysis identified a total of 1549 proteins in the secretome pool of hPFTSECs cultured in vitro and 258 proteins were found to be differentially abundant in response to CC. KEGG and REACTOME analysis revealed that the differentially abundant proteins (DAPs) were mainly associated with pathways such as estrogen signaling, cell cycle and DNA damage. Further, candidate proteins associated with ovulation, embryo development, embryo implantation, pregnancy complications, ectopic pregnancy, sperm functions, apoptosis, senescence, and ovarian cancers were identified. CC exposure induced changes in secretome profile of hPFTSECs may affect the female reproductive health by potentially altering the tubal microenvironment. The study was registered in the Clinical Trials Registry of India (CTRI) under the registration number CTRI/2020/11/028791 on 02/11/2020.
PXD062049	40500772	Metabolic reprogramming in hepatocellular carcinoma: an integrated omics study of lipid pathways and their diagnostic potential. 	Metabolic Reprogramming in Hepatocellular Carcinoma: An Integrated Omics Study  of Lipid Pathways and Their Diagnostic Potential	Hepatocellular Carcinoma	Metabolic reprogramming is an important cancer hallmark. Recent studies have indicated that lipid metabolic reprogramming play a potential role in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). However, the underlying mechanisms remain incompletely understood. In this study, we employed an integrated multi-omics approach, combining transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic analyses, to explore the lipid metabolism pathways in HCC and evaluate their diagnostic potential.We collected ten pairs of HCC tissues (HCT) and adjacent non-tumor tissues (ANT) from patients undergoing surgical resection. Transcriptomic analysis identified 4,023 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) between HCT and ANT, with significant enrichment in lipid metabolism-related pathways, including fatty acid degradation and steroid hormone biosynthesis. Proteomic analysis revealed 2,531 differentially expressed proteins (DEPs), further highlighting lipid metabolism as a critical driver of HCC development. Metabolomic profiling identified 88 differentially expressed metabolites (DEMs), with notable alterations in lipid-related metabolites. Integrated analysis of transcriptomic, proteomic, and metabolomic data identified six key genes (LCAT, PEMT, ACSL1, GPD1, ACSL4, and LPCAT1) involved in lipid metabolism, which exhibited significant changes at both mRNA and protein levels and correlated strongly with lipid-related metabolites in HCT. Additionally, nine lipid-related metabolites were identified as potential diagnostic biomarkers for HCC, with six metabolites demonstrating high discriminative ability (AUC > 0.8) between HCT and ANT.Our findings provide new insights into the molecular mechanisms of lipid metabolism reprogramming in HCC, emphasize the critical role of lipid metabolism in its pathogenesis. The identification of lipid-related metabolites as potential diagnostic biomarkers holds significant promise for early detection and improved clinical management of HCC. The integrated multi-omics approach as a powerful tool for identifying novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
PXD056702	40504150	SARS-CoV-2 nsp15 enhances viral virulence by subverting host antiviral defenses. 	SARS-CoV-2 nsp15 enhances viral virulence by subverting host antiviral defenses	SARS-CoV-2, nsp15	SARS-CoV-2 encodes numerous virulence factors, yet their precise mechanisms of action remain unknown. We provide evidence that the SARS-CoV-2 nonstructural protein 15 (nsp15) enhances viral virulence by suppressing the production of viral double-stranded (dsRNA), a potent inducer of antiviral signaling. The viral variants lacking nsp15 endoribonuclease activity elicited higher innate immune responses and exhibited reduced replication in human stem cell-derived lung alveolar type II epithelial cells, as well as in the lungs of infected hamsters. Consistently, these variants caused significantly less weight loss and mortality compared to wild-type (WT) virus in K18-hACE2 mice. Mechanistically, the cells infected with nsp15 mutants accumulated more viral dsRNA, causing enhanced stimulation of the interferon pathway. Chemical inhibition of interferon signaling dampened immune responses to nsp15 mutants and restored their replication to levels similar to the WT virus. These findings indicate that the endoribonuclease activity of nsp15 contributes to viral virulence by limiting the accumulation of viral dsRNA, thereby allowing robust replication with reduced activation of the host innate immune response.
PXD059514	40505065	Arg-C Ultra Simplifies Histone Preparation for LC-MS/MS. 	Arg-C Ultra simplifies histone preparation for LC-MS/MS	Arg-C Ultra, chemical derivatization, histone, trimethylacetic anhydride	Arginine-specific cleavage is the primary method used to prepare lysine-rich histone proteins in bottom-up proteomics. As the Arg-C enzyme has demonstrated suboptimal specificity, cleavage at the carboxyl side of arginine residues is typically achieved through the chemical derivatization of lysines followed by trypsin digestion. Recent improvements in proteolytic enzymes are reflected in the introduction of Arg-C Ultra, a recombinant proteinase with a substantially improved digestion specificity. Here, using mammalian histone extract, we demonstrate that Arg-C Ultra facilitates histone preparation for LC-MS/MS. We show the performance of Arg-C Ultra in terms of digestion specificity, number of modified forms identified, and yield of quantitative information compared with Arg-C and trypsin digestion combined with chemical derivatization with trimethylacetic anhydride. Importantly, we show that chemical derivatization at the peptide level, i.e., after Arg-C Ultra digestion, is still necessary to improve the quantification of short histone peptidoforms as well as positional isomers.
PXD058814	40505831	TAp73alpha drives cancer metastasis via PPI-mediated derepression of the neuronal HDAC2/REST-GABBR2 axis. 	Characterization of DNp73beta protein interaction partners	DNp73beta, SaOS-2	Metastasis is the leading cause of death in patients with malignant melanoma, yet the molecular and transcriptional mechanisms remain elusive. This study reveals a crucial role of the p53 homolog, TAp73alpha, in promoting melanoma metastasis. Using multi-omics approaches combining transcriptomics, proteomics, cistromics and 3D modeling, we discovered a paradigm-shifting mechanism by which TAp73alpha binds directly to HDAC2, disassembles the HDAC2/REST repressor complex and aberrantly triggers activation of the neuronal receptor GABBR2 in cancer cells. TAp73alpha-induced derepression of GABBR2 expression leads to upregulation of EMT markers, promotes cancer cell invasiveness and proliferation, and correlates with poor survival outcomes. Our findings redefine the function of p73 in cancer pathogenesis and identify the TAp73alpha-HDAC2/REST-GABBR2 axis as a novel driver of melanoma progression. These insights could guide future strategies on melanoma treatment.
PXD063173	40506500	Increased matrix stiffness promotes fibrogenesis of hepatic stellate cells through AP-1-induced chromatin priming. 	The proteomics data for Increased matrix stiffness promotes fibrogenesis of hepatic stellate cells through AP-1-induced chromatin priming	hepatic stellate cell	Matrix stiffness has significant effects on cell behavior, however, less is known regarding the epigenomic and transcriptional regulation underling the effect of matrix stiffness on cells. In this study, we use an in vitro system to assess the phenotypic shifts of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs) following changes in matrix stiffness, and integrate multi-omics with imaging and biochemical assays to investigate the molecular mechanisms. We show that cells cultured on a stiff matrix display more accessible chromatin sites, which consist of primed chromatin regions that become more accessible prior to the upregulation of nearby genes. These regions are enriched in fibrosis-associated genes that function in cytoskeletal organization and response to mechanical stimulus. We also identify activation of p-JUN in response to the stiff matrix and promoting phenotypic shifts. The identified chromatin accessibility-dependent effect of matrix stiffness may be responsible for various fibrotic diseases and provide insight into intervening approaches.
PXD042735	40510131	KDM3A and KDM3B regulate alternative splicing in mouse pluripotent stem cells. 	KDM3A and KDM3B Maintain Nave Pluripotency Through the Regulation of Alternative Splicing	FLAG-IP, histone demethylases, mESCs	Histone modifying enzymes are crucial in preserving cell identity by establishing a conducive chromatin environment for lineage specific transcription factor activity. Mouse pluripotent embryonic stem cells (mESCs) show lower levels of gene repression associated with histone modifications, facilitating rapid response to differentiation cues. The KDM3 family of histone demethylases removes repressive histone H3 lysine 9 dimethylation (H3K9me2). We uncover a surprising role for the KDM3 proteins in the post-transcriptional regulation of mESCs. Proteomic analysis shows KDM3A and KDM3B interacting with RNA processing factors such as EFTUD2 and PRMT5. Acute degradation of the endogenous KDM3A and KDM3B proteins resulted in altered splicing independent of H3K9me2 status or catalytic activity. These splicing changes partially resemble the splicing pattern of the more blastocyst-like ground state of pluripotency and occur in important chromatin and transcription factors such as Dnmt3b and Tcf12. Our findings reveal non-canonical roles of histone demethylating enzymes in splicing to regulate cell identity.
PXD060894	40512846	A phosphorylation-driven ubiquitination switch fine-tunes Alfin-like 7-induced ROS signaling in plant immunity. 	LC-MS based on TurboID proximity labeling technology: Screening for interacting proteins of AL7 and their differences	TurboID	Maintaining reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis is essential for balancing growth-defense trade-offs in plants. Although the transcription factors (TFs) that regulate ROS production and scavenging genes have been studied, the regulation of these TFs to control ROS accumulation remains poorly understood. Here, we demonstrate that during N nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat-mediated immunity, Alfin-like 7 (AL7) is ubiquitinated by the ubiquitin protein ligase E3 component N-recognin 7 (UBR7). UBR7 interacts with AL7 and acts as a molecular brake to mediate the ubiquitination of AL7 at lysine-20, leading to its subsequent proteasomal degradation. UBR7 functions upstream of AL7 to reduce AL7-induced ROS accumulation during N-mediated defense. The phosphorylation of AL7 at serine-174 enhances its interaction with UBR7, thereby increasing AL7 ubiquitination and reducing AL7 stability. Our findings reveal a mechanism by which ROS accumulation is regulated through the phosphorylation and ubiquitination of a TF during the immune response. This ensures precise switching of ROS signaling to prevent excessive defense responses.
PXD063595	40513576	Enhancing anti-tumor immunity of natural killer cells through targeting IL-15R signaling. 	UBE2F inhibits Natural Killer cell tumor immunity by activating the ARIH2-CRL5 complex to degrade interleukin 15 receptors	UBE2F knockout, natural killer cells	Interleukin-15 receptor (IL-15R) agonists induce anti-tumor immunity in pre-clinical models. However, dose-limiting toxicity has hampered their clinical development. We performed genome-wide CRISPR screens to reveal the complete IL-15R signaling mechanism in natural killer (NK) cells and discovered that ubiquitin-dependent IL-15R degradation is the dominant mechanism restraining IL-15R signaling. Key hits included the NEDD8 E2-conjugating enzyme UBE2F, the ubiquitin E3-ligase ARIH2, and Cullin-5 RING E3 ligase (CRL5) members. We found that UBE2F was required for neddylation and activation of CUL5, whereas ARIH2 contributed to CRL5-mediated IL-15RB degradation. Ablation of ARIH2 or UBE2F increased IL-15RB surface expression and enhanced signaling, resulting in proinflammatory cytokine production and augmented natural and CAR-mediated cytotoxicity. In mice lacking Arih2, Rnf7, or Ube2f, we observed that the IL-15R hyperresponsive NK cells exhibited superior in vivo anti-tumor immunity against primary and disseminated metastatic tumors. Thus, we have identified the enzymes UBE2F and ARIH2 as tractable immunotherapy drug targets.
PXD058073	40513780	Identification of Small Open Reading Frame-encoded Peptides in Glioma by an Optimized Proteomics Strategy. 	Identification of Small Open Reading Frame-encoded Peptides in Glioma by an Optimized Proteomics Strategy	Glioma, Small Open Reading Frame-encoded Peptides (SEPs)	Small open reading frame - encoded peptides (SEPs), translated from previously unannotated genomic regions, have emerged as important regulators in diverse physiological and pathological processes. While ribosome profiling and bioinformatics analysis can predict putative SEPs, mass spectrometry (MS) is the only method for their definitive identification. However, MS-based SEP detection faces significant challenges due to SEP's short length and low abundance. To address these limitations, we developed an ammonium formate - mediated C8 solid - phase enrichment (AmF-C8-SPE) strategy that significantly outperforms classic C8-SPE, yielding superior SEP identification with enhanced unique peptide ratios and sequence coverage. By coupling AmF-C8-SPE with fractionation and LC-MS/MS analysis of glioma samples from 18 patients, we identified 549 novel SEPs, 113 of which exhibited differential expression between tumors and adjacent normal tissues. Importantly, randomly selected SEPs were validated by MS spectral matching with synthetic peptides and by confirming recombinant fusion protein expression in cells. Furthermore, Mfuzz clustering and ROC curve analyses revealed SEPs associated with glioma progression. DeepLoc-based prediction followed by confocal microscopy imaging confirmed nuclear localization of two candidate SEPs (IP_613981 and SPROHSA206836). Therefore, this study establishes an optimized SEP identification approach and the first comprehensive SEP profiling in glioma, providing a valuable resource to discover novel glioma biomarker and therapeutic target.
PXD045861	40514588	Myelin-axon interface vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease revealed by subcellular proteomics and imaging of human and mouse brain. 	Myelin-axon interface disruption uncovered by subcellular proteomics and imaging of Alzheimer's human brain	Alzheimers disease, Human brain, LC-MS-MS, myelin-axon interface, proximity labeling, subcellular proteomics	Myelin ensheathment is essential for rapid axonal conduction, metabolic support and neuronal plasticity. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), disruptions in myelin and axonal structures occur, although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We implemented proximity labeling subcellular proteomics of the myelin-axon interface in postmortem human brains from AD donors and 15-month-old male and female 5XFAD mice. We uncovered multiple dysregulated signaling pathways and ligand-receptor interactions, including those linked to amyloid-beta processing, axonal outgrowth and lipid metabolism. Expansion microscopy confirmed the subcellular localization of top proteomic hits and revealed amyloid-beta aggregation within the internodal periaxonal space and paranodal/juxtaparanodal channels. Although overall myelin coverage is preserved, we found reduced paranode density, aberrant myelination and altered paranode positioning around amyloid-plaque-associated dystrophic axons. These findings suggest that the myelin-axon interface is a critical site of protein aggregation and disrupted neuro-glial signaling in AD.
PXD054704	40514757	Mitochondrial sirtuin 4 shapes the intestinal microbiota of Drosophila by controlling lysozyme expression. 	A mitochondrial sirtuin shapes the intestinal microbiota by controlling lysozyme expression	Drosophila, LC-MS, sirtuin-4	BACKGROUND: Sirtuins are deacetylases that are highly conserved throughout the animal kingdom. They act as metabolic sensors that coordinate cellular responses, allowing an adapted response to various stressors. Epithelial cells, especially those of the intestine, are directly exposed to a wide range of stressors. Together with the microbiota, they form a complex ecosystem with mutual influences. The significance of sirtuins in this complex system is still waiting to be clarified. RESULTS: Here, we show that a protein-restricted diet strongly increases the intestinal expression of sirtuin 4 (dSirt4), the only mitochondrial sirtuin in Drosophila. To elucidate the effects of deregulated dSirt4 expression in the intestine, we analyzed dSirt4 knockout flies. These flies showed substantial changes in their intestinal proteome and physiological properties. One of the most striking effects was the strong induction of lysozymes in the intestine, with a corresponding increase in lysozyme activity. This effect was organ-autonomous, as it was also observed in flies with dSirt4 knocked out only in intestinal enterocytes. The significant increase in lysozyme abundance in response to tissue-specific dSirt4 knockdown did not reduce the total number of bacteria in the intestine. However, it did affect the microbiota composition by reducing the number of gram-positive bacteria. This effect on microbiota composition can be attributed to dSirt4-dependent lysozyme expression, which is absent in a lysozyme-deficient background. dSirt4 knockout in the enterocytes shortened the lifespan of the flies, as did ectopic lysozyme overexpression in the enterocytes. CONCLUSIONS: The only mitochondrial sirtuin in Drosophila, dSirt4, is induced by dietary stress in intestinal epithelial cells, which directly regulates the lysozyme activity of these cells. We could associate this altered lysozyme activity with a shift in the microbiota composition, demonstrating a direct link between stress, nutrition, and the host's microbiota regulation.
PXD061227	40515433	A comparison of human skeletal muscle cell maturation in 2D versus 3D culture: A quantitative proteomic study. 	A comparison of human skeletal muscle cell maturation in 2D versus 3D culture: A quantitative proteomic study C4PR_LIV	3D culture, Bioengineering, Hydrogel, In vitro models, Maturation, Skeletal muscle	Compared with 2D monolayers, 3D models more closely mimic native muscle tissue and allow functional measurements. A more complete understanding of how culture conditions and duration affect myotube maturity/function is crucial for validating the transition to 3D systems. Human skeletal muscle cells were cultured as 2D monolayers or within 3D hydrogels for up to 21 days. Quantitative proteomic analysis and functional measurements were conducted to evaluate muscle cell differentiation. Myoblasts differentiated into myotubes by 8 days in both environments; however, at Day 8, 3D constructs exhibited a predominantly slow-twitch phenotype, compared with the mixed fiber type of 2D monolayers. By Day 21, 3D constructs demonstrated enhanced mitochondrial maturity, extracellular matrix remodeling, and a fast-twitch phenotype, indicated by increased myosin-2 abundance (Log2(FC)>1.29, p <0.05). Passive tension increased by >20% following prolonged culture of 3D muscle constructs, but contractile forces reduced by >40%. This study provides a comprehensive proteomic profile of human skeletal muscle cells in 2D and 3D, demonstrating that 3D culture promoted myotube maturity and highlighting the importance of selecting appropriate culture conditions. Data suggest 8 days of differentiation as ideal for achieving peak contractile force in 3D constructs, providing optimal models for testing interventions aimed at preserving muscle function.
PXD058666	40515705	Screening of Protein Carbonylation Sites in Human Serum by Ion Mobility Mass Spectrometry. 	Screening of protein carbonylation sites in human serum by ion mobility mass spectrometry	Carbonylation, DDA, DIA, aldehyde reactive probe (ARP), human serum, ion mobility spectrometry	Excessive oxidative stress, associated with various diseases, can induce protein carbonylation-nonenzymatic modifications involving aldehyde or keto group formation. These modifications are structurally diverse and low in abundance, which complicates their detection and quantitation. Here, we developed a strategy to identify and quantify protein carbonylation in human serum proteins from 39 rheumatoid arthritis patients and 29 healthy donors. Reactive carbonyl groups were derivatized with an aldehyde reactive probe (ARP), digested with trypsin, enriched via avidin affinity chromatography, and analyzed using RP-HPLC-ESI-IMS-MS/MS. Ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) was applied in both data-dependent (DDA) and data-independent acquisition (DIA) modes. DDA generated spectral libraries of ARP-derivatized peptides (ARP-peptides), which enabled peptide-centric detection in DIA data. We manually confirmed 86 ARP-peptides, with 93.8% of peak areas showing signal-to-background ratios >3. Among the 32 unique carbonylation sites, 28 were on human serum albumin, with hotspots at Cys58, Lys214, Lys219, Lys223, Lys456, Lys543, Lys549, and Lys565. Six previously unreported species were identified using IMS, DIA, ARP-reporter ions, and de novo sequencing. The ARP-peptides were quantified with >= 75% intrabatch reproducibility (coefficient of variation <20%). Similar modification levels were observed in both groups, suggesting basal, disease-independent carbonylation in abundant serum proteins.
PXD060754	40517142	The Masc-PSI complex directly induces male-type doublesex splicing in silkworms. 	LFQ of GFP-Trap IP-MS of BmN-4 cells expressing BmMasc-GFP	BmMasc, GFP-Trap, LFQ	The WZ sex determination system is found in a diverse range of animals, including lepidopteran insects. In the silkworm Bombyx mori, the masculinizing protein Masculinizer (BmMasc) induces the production of the male-type Bombyx mori doublesex (Bmdsx(M)), which is the master genetic switch of B. mori sex differentiation. However, the molecular mechanism through which BmMasc transduces the masculinizing signal to the Bmdsx(M) production remains unknown. Here, we show that BmMasc physically interacts with Bombyx mori P-element somatic inhibitor (BmPSI), a RNA binding protein required for Bmdsx(M) expression. Knockdown experiments indicate that BmPSI is essential for the masculinizing activity of BmMasc. RNA immunoprecipitation experiments also reveal that BmMasc-containing protein complex is associated with female-specific regions of Bmdsx pre-mRNA. Taken together, our findings show that the BmMasc-BmPSI protein complex binds to female-specific Bmdsx regions, inducing exon skipping, and thereby promoting Bmdsx(M) expression in B. mori males.
PXD045467	40517318	A DIA-MS-based proteomics approach to find potential serum prognostic biomarkers in glioblastoma patients. 	A DIA-MS-based proteomics approach to find potential serum prognostic biomarkers in glioblastoma patients	DIA-MS, Glioblastoma, Sera, Tumor	No blood-based protein biomarkers are currently available for routine clinical use to determine the prognosis of patients with glioblastoma (GB). We performed data-independent acquisition mass spectrometry (DIA-MS)-based proteomics on 96 presurgical serum samples from patients with GB and 30 serum samples from healthy controls to identify such markers. Among the 622 serum proteins differentially expressed between the GB and control groups, 191 had a |log2(fold change)| >= 0.58 and an area under the curve >= 0.75. An analysis of their prognostic value revealed that high levels of IL1R2 and low levels of CRTAC1 and HRG were associated with poor survival. Multivariate Cox regression analysis identified IL1R2 as an independent prognostic factor for PFS and CRTAC1 as an independent prognostic factor for OS. The concentration of CRTAC1 in serum samples from an independent cohort of short- and long-term survivors of GB (STS and LTS, respectively) by ELISA was shown to be lower in the STS than in the LTS group. CRTAC1, HRG, and IL1R2 could potentially be used to better inform prognosis and predict treatment response in GB patients.
PXD055246	40518491	NET Proteomic Profiling Reveals New Pathways Potentially Implicated in Dendritic Cell-Mediated Inflammation in DADA2 Patients. 	DADA2 NETS SHOW DISTINCT PROTEOMIC SIGNATURE FROM POLYARTERITIS NODOSA NETS AND ACTIVATE PRO-INFLAMMATORY CYTOKINES SECRETION FROM DENDRITIC CELLS	NETosis, NETs, PAN, adenosine deaminase 2	PURPOSE: Adenosine deaminase 2 Deficiency (DADA2) is an autoinflammatory disease characterized by systemic vasculopathy, strokes and mild immunodeficiency. Recently NETosis has been implicated in the pathogenesis of Deficiency of Adenosine Deaminase 2. To deep investigate the possible effects of NETs on the immune system we characterized proteomic profile of NETs from DADA2 as compared to HD and Polyarteritis Nodosa (PAN) patients. To determine if NETs contain possibly immunogenic antigens we study functional aspects on Dendritic Cells after in vitro stimulation with NETs. METHODS: Twenty-three DADA2 patients were enrolled. We analyzed NETosis by Imaging Flow Citometry. We evaluated NETs remnants and DNAse in the plasma samples by ELISA assay whereas DNAse activity by DNA digestion. We used quantitative proteomics approach and network analysis to identify NET proteins and pathways in 6 DADA2, 7 PAN and 7 HD. We analyzed circulating and monocyte-derived dendritic cells by flow cytometry. RESULTS: Neutrophils from DADA2 patients show a significant increased suicidal NETosis. DNAse enzymes were not normal in the level or activity. By proteomic analysis we identified 1356 proteins among which a hundred of proteins were significantly up or down-modulated in DADA2 NETs as compared to normal and disease control NETs in resting condition and after stimulation with PMA, Adenosine and TNFalpha. DADA2 NETs are significantly more efficient than normal NETs in stimulating patients' monocyte-derived dendritic cells. CONCLUSION: We identified different pathways significantly modulated in DADA2 NETs versus PAN/HD NETs. This peculiar protein profile could contribute in activating inflammatory pathways in Dendritic cells in DADA2.
PXD033005	40520090	Claudin-6 mediates an embryonic stem cell-driven antitumor response against breast cancer. 	Proteomic profile of the early transition from nave to primed pluripotency in mouse ES cells	cultures, stem cells	Stem cells are emerging sources of antigens for cancer immunotherapy. Here, we used TNG-A mouse embryonic stem cells to trigger an anticancer response against tumors derived from E0771 mouse breast cancer cells, possibly mediated by the mouse immune system. TNG-A cells were cultured in the presence or absence of two specific kinase inhibitors. While the inhibitors preserved TNG-A pluripotency, their removal altered the morphology, transcriptome, and proteome of TNG-A cells, increasing their similarities with E0771 cancer cells. Double pre-exposure by subcutaneous injection of TNG-A cells followed by E0771 implantation drastically decreased E0771-derived tumor size in mice. Serum cytokine quantifications suggested a transient immune reaction associated with tumor regression. Nevertheless, pre-exposure to TNG-A cells impaired for the tight junction protein Claudin 6 failed to decrease tumor size. Our findings demonstrate the anti-tumor effects of embryonic stem cells and anticipate their potential as an allogenic source for cancer immunotherapy.
PXD057469	40521243	LncPTEN1, a long non-coding RNA generated from PTEN, suppresses lung cancer metastasis through the regulation of EMT progress. 	Proteomic Analysis of LncPTEN1 RNA Pulldown in Lung Cancer Cells Using LC-MS/MS	A549, LncPTEN1, RNA Pulldown, Trim16, Vimentin	Lung cancer is among the most frequently observed and lethal malignancies globally, and metastasis represents a critical determinant of patient outcomes. PTEN, a well-established tumor suppressor, has emerged as an important regulator in lung cancer progression. However, the molecular mechanism of PTEN gene suppressing lung cancer metastasis lacks deeper exploration. In this research, we identify and characterize LncPTEN1, a novel long non-coding RNA generated from PTEN gene. We show that YTHDC1 promotes the alternative splicing of LncPTEN1, resulting in significantly elevated LncPTEN1 expression in normal lung cells. Clinical analyses across multiple patient cohorts demonstrate that low LncPTEN1 expression strongly correlates with poor patient survival and increased metastasis, indicating its potential as a prognostic biomarker. Mechanistically, LncPTEN1 facilitates the interaction between Trim16 and Vimentin, promoting the ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of Vimentin, thereby suppressing EMT-driven metastasis. The collective evidence from our investigation demonstrates that LncPTEN1 represents a novel tumor-suppressive lncRNA which inhibits lung cancer metastasis through promoting the degradation of Vimentin and inhibiting the EMT progress.
PXD058280	40521556	Molecular Imprints of Clinical Comorbidities in Hypothalamic Extracellular Vesicles at the Onset of Obesity. 	Proteomics of Hypothalamic Extracellular Vesicles at the Onset of Obesity	Hypothalamus, extracellular vesicles, obesity, shotgun	The onset of obesity is characterized by early physiological and molecular changes, including leptin resistance and hypothalamic dysfunction, preceding significant weight gain and metabolic complications. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are key mediators of intercellular communication, reflecting early pathological shifts in metabolic disorders. This study investigates the role of hypothalamic EVs (hEVs) in early obesogenic insult and their potential implications for obesity-related comorbidities. Using a hamster model fed a high fat diet for 30 days, next-generation proteomics revealed altered hEV protein compositions linked to cellular metabolism, neuroinflammation, and metabolic dysfunction, mirroring early obesity-related dysfunction. These findings highlight the adaptive molecular profiles of hEVs during early obesogenic insult and their potential as biomarkers and molecular mediators in obesity progression and its comorbidities. In conclusion, this study provides new insights into the molecular mechanisms underlying the onset of obesity and highlights hEVs as promising targets for early detection and intervention.
PXD058097	40521608	Uncovering protein conformational dynamics within two-component viral biomolecular condensates. 	Hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry of rotavirus NSP2/NSP5 biomolecular condensates	HDX, NSP2, NSP5, rotavirus	Biomolecular condensates selectively compartmentalize and organize biomolecules within the crowded cellular milieu and are instrumental in some disease mechanisms. Upon infection, many RNA viruses form biomolecular condensates that are often referred to as viral factories. The assembly mechanism of these viral factories remains poorly defined but involves transient, non-stoichiometric protein/RNA interactions, making their structural characterization challenging. Here, we sought to investigate the structural dynamics and intermolecular interactions of the key proteins responsible for condensate formation upon rotavirus infection, namely NSP2 (an RNA chaperone) and NSP5 (an intrinsically disordered protein [IDP]), using a combination of hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDX-MS), native MS, and biophysical tools. Our data reveal key structural features of intrinsically disordered NSP5 that are vital for condensate assembly and highlight inter/intra-protein interactions involved in condensate assembly. Moreover, we demonstrate that within a condensate there are altered conformational dynamics within the C-terminal region of NSP2, which has previously been shown to play a role in regulating its RNA chaperoning activity, and in the disordered regions of NSP5. We propose that altered conformational dynamics in NSP2 and NSP5 are critical for regulation of RNA annealing within a biomolecular condensate and for condensate assembly/client recruitment, respectively. Combined, our data demonstrate that the unique environment within a biomolecular condensate can tune functionally important protein conformational dynamics, which may play a crucial role in the replication of rotaviruses.
PXD062677	40521666	Nat10 maintains the homeostasis of pluripotent and 2-cell-like states in mouse embryonic stem cells through mRNA cytidine acetylation. 	Nat10 interacting  proteins identified by IP and mass spectrometry (IP-MS) in mESCs	IP-MS, Nat10, mESCs	Naive mouse embryonic stem cells (mESCs) are characterized by a mixed population of cells in an interconvertible pluripotent state and a totipotent 2-cell (2C)-like state. It remains to be understood how the pluripotent state is maintained while the 2C-like state is suppressed. We show that N-acetyltransferase 10 (Nat10) maintains the pluripotent state and suppresses the 2C-like state in mESCs through mRNA modification and stabilization. Nat10 as a nucleolar protein may indirectly interact with heterochromatin through Ncl. Nat10 catalyzes the N4-acetylcytidine (ac4C) modification of mRNAs encoding the key pluripotency genes including Oct4,Esrrb and Zfp42 and enhances their mRNA stability, thus increasing their protein levels for pluripotency. Moreover, Nat10 acetylates and stabilizes heterochromatin modifiers such as Kap1 mRNA and protein to repress the 2C genes by maintaining the H3K9me3 complex. Together, these findings highlight critical roles for Nat10 in maintaining the pluripotency network and repressing the 2C-like program via mRNA ac4C modification, providing insights into the transition between pluripotent and totipotent states in mESCs.
PXD054723	40522078	Cysteine Signalling in Plant Pathogen Response. 	Arabidopsis thaliana proteome in response to cysteine treatment and Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato DC3000	Pseudomonas syringae, cysteine metabolism, pathogen response	The amino acid cysteine is the precursor for a wide range of sulfur-containing functional molecules in plants, including enzyme cofactors and defence compounds. Due to its redox active thiol group cysteine is highly reactive. Synthesis and degradation pathways are present in several subcellular compartments to adjust the intracellular cysteine concentration. However, stress conditions can lead to a transient increase in local cysteine levels. Here we investigate links between cysteine homeostasis and metabolic signalling in Arabidopsis thaliana. The systemic proteome response to cysteine feeding strongly suggests that Arabidopsis seedlings interpret accumulation of cysteine above a certain threshold as a signal for a biotic threat. Cysteine supplementation of Arabidopsis plants via the roots increases their resistance to the hemibiotrophic bacterium Pseudomonas syringae confirming the protective function of the cysteine induced defence pathways. Analysis of mutant plants reveals that the balance of cysteine synthesis between the cytosol and organelles is crucial during Arabidopsis immune response to Pseudomonas syringae. The induction profile of pathogen responsive proteins by cysteine provides insight into potential modes of action. Our results highlight the role of cysteine as a metabolic signal in the plant immune response and add evidence to the emerging concept of intracellular organelles as important players in plant stress signalling.
PXD058248	40523604	Age-related dysregulation of proteasome-independent K63 polyubiquitination in the hippocampus and amygdala. 	K63 polyubiquitin targets in the hippocampus across the lifespan	K63, aging, hippocampus, memory, ubiquitin	Cognitive decline with aging is a complex process involving multiple brain regions and molecular mechanisms. While the role of the canonical protein degradation function of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) has been well studied in the context of aging and age-associated memory loss, the non-proteolytic functions of ubiquitin activity remain poorly understood. Here, we investigated the role of lysine-63 (K63) polyubiquitination, the most abundant form of proteasome-independent ubiquitination, in aged rats, focusing on the hippocampus and amygdala, two brain regions reported to have cellular and molecular alterations with age that are associated with age-related memory loss. Using an unbiased proteomic approach, we observed a significant increase of K63 polyubiquitination in the hippocampus across the lifespan. Reducing K63 polyubiquitination in the hippocampus of aged male rats using the CRISPR-dCas13 RNA editing system enhanced contextual fear memory, while similar manipulations in middle-aged rats, which typically have normal memory, had no effect, emphasizing the age-dependent role of K63 polyubiquitination in memory formation. Conversely, the amygdala showed a consistent reduction of K63 polyubiquitination protein targets across the lifespan, and further reductions of K63 polyubiquitination improved memory retention in aged, but not middle-aged, male rats. Together, our findings reveal the dynamic and region-specific functions of K63 polyubiquitination in the brain aging process, providing novel insights into its contribution to age-associated memory decline.
PXD042922	40524494	Executioner caspase is proximal to Fasciclin 3 which facilitates non-lethal activation in Drosophila olfactory receptor neurons. 	TurboID-mediated proximal labeling of Drosophila caspase Drice in adult brains	Caspase, Drice, Drosophila, LFQ, TurboID	The nervous system undergoes functional modification independent of cell turnover. Caspase participates in reversible neuronal modulation via non-lethal activation. However, the mechanism that enables non-lethal activation remains unclear. Here, we analyzed proximal proteins of Drosophila executioner caspase in the adult brain using TurboID. We discovered that executioner caspase Drice is, as an inactive proform, proximal to cell membrane proteins, including a specific splicing isoform of cell adhesion molecule Fasciclin 3 (Fas3), Fas3G. To investigate whether sequestration of executioner caspase to plasma membrane of axons is the mechanism for non-lethal activation, we developed a Gal4-Manipulated Area-Specific CaspaseTracker/CasExpress system for sensitive monitoring of caspase activity near the plasma membrane. We demonstrated that Fas3G overexpression promotes caspase activation in olfactory receptor neurons without killing them, by inducing expression of initiator caspase Dronc, which also comes close to Fas3G. Physiologically, Fas3G overexpression-facilitated non-lethal caspase activation suppresses innate olfactory attraction behavior. Our findings suggest that subcellularly restricted caspase activation, defined by caspase-proximal proteins, is the mechanism for non-lethal activation, opening the methodological development of reversible modification of neuronal function via regulating caspase-proximal proteins.
PXD052621	40527209	Comprehensive multi-omics integration to unravel poplar molecular responses to a phenanthrene contamination gradient. 	Poplar root tandem mass spectrometry analyses in response to a contamination gradient of phenanthrene	endophytes, phenanthrene, poplar, populus x canadensis, root, shotgun proteomics	Phytoremediation using trees has become popular due to its effectiveness and affordability, including for brownfield soils contaminated with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH). However, our understanding of how trees cope with exposure to PAHs is limited. In this study, we employed an innovative experimental design combining a contamination gradient of eight phenanthrene concentrations (0-2000 mg.kg-(1)), a model PAH, with a comprehensive integrative multi-omics approach (transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics) to study the physiological responses of poplar (Populus x canadensis). The objective was to identify molecular biomarkers from poplar roots and leaves. This pioneering setup generated large datasets: 27,561 transcripts, 6787 proteins, and 2799 metabolites for roots, and 26,079 transcripts, 8249 proteins, and 2239 metabolites for leaves. The datasets were integrated using the mixOmics package, highlighting a distinct response between the lowest and highest phenanthrene concentrations for roots and the combinaison of roots and leaves (tipping point at 400 mg.kg(-1)), and between PHE-spiked and unspiked control for leaves. Different metabolic pathways were identified as plant biomarkers at low and high PHE concentrations. These biomarkers were specific for low and high toxicity, respectively. The most affected pathways were carbon fixation, oxidative phosphorylation, glycerolipid metabolism at low PHE concentrations, starch and sucrose metabolism, and aminoacyl-tRNA biosynthesis at high PHE concentrations. In total, 73 relevant biomarkers were identified from photosynthesis to flavonoid biosynthesis pathways. These results highlight the key molecular mechanisms triggered by poplar in response to PAH contamination and suggest molecular targets of interest for future ecotoxicity tests.
PXD058253	4052	[Endocrine cells of the gastric mucous membrane]. 	K63 polyubiquitin targets in the amygdala across the lifespan	K63, aging, amygdala, memory, ubiquitin	In order to obtain an additional information concerning a possible functional role of the main types of the endocrine cells (EC and ECL) on investigation of aspiration biopsy specimens taken from the middle third of the stomach in patients with ulcerative disease of the duodenum and chronic gastritis was carried out. Changes in morphology, distribution and number of the endocrine cells in pathology of the mucosa and in various acidity of the gastric juice were followed up. On the basis of the data obtained the conclusion is made that serotonin-producing (EC) cells seem to have nothing to do with the regulation of the activity of the fundal glands, whereas the enterochromaffin-like cells (ECL) influence the production of hydrochloric acid by pavement cells.
PXD057939	40530573	The Microbial Anti-Inflammatory Molecule (MAM) is a key protein processed and exported to Faecalibacterium duncaniae envelope. 	Microbial anti-inflammatory Molecule is a key protein processed and exported to Faecalibacterium duncaniae envelope	proteomic and peptidomic	MAM (Microbial-Anti-Inflammatory Molecule) is a key effector protein with anti-inflammatory properties in Faecalibacterium duncaniae, a critical human gut microbiota species. Despite its importance, MAM function and molecular features remain poorly understood. This study elucidates MAM's physiological importance by examining its cellular localization, secretion dynamics, and structural organization. Mass spectrometry and immunogold labeling confirmed MAM as the most abundant protein in the cell envelope and the second most abundant in the overall proteome, localizing it to the bacterial surface. Bioinformatic and in silico analyses suggest that MAM contains an N-terminal leader peptide with motifs recognized by a Peptidase-domain-Containing ABC Transporter (PCAT), enabling cargo transport to the cell envelope. After N-terminal excision, the cargo protein could be transported to the cell envelope via this PCAT, where it could assemble into a hexameric structure, as revealed by docking and AlphaFold3 modeling. Such results were supported by electron microscopy showing a lattice-like organization on the bacterial surface. This work introduces a novel discussion about the singular organization of the F. duncaniae cell envelope, having MAM as a key component for the bacteria, supporting the understanding of the unique biology of F. duncaniae and its potential as a next-generation probiotic or live biotherapeutic.
PXD057259	40531655	EMT-associated bias in the Parsortix(R) system observed with pancreatic cancer cell lines. 	Assessment of the epithelial/mesenchymal phenotype of pancreatic cancer cells based on data-independent acquisition - mass spectrometry.	cancer, cell lines, human proteome, pancreatic	Pancreatic cancer has a 5-year survival rate of 12%, highlighting the need for reliable biomarkers for early detection and disease monitoring. Circulating tumor cells (CTCs) have emerged as a promising biomarker, yet their detection remains challenging. This study evaluates the Parsortix(R) system, a microfluidic device that enriches CTCs based on size and deformability, using pancreatic cancer cell lines. As increasing evidence indicates that during epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition (EMT) a cell's deformability increases, we evaluated possible biases by the device. The EMT stage of three pancreatic cancer cell lines, CAPAN-1, MIA PaCa-2, and PANC-1, was assessed to classify them as epithelial, mesenchymal-like, and hybrid, respectively. Spike-in experiments showed that epithelial and hybrid phenotypes were more efficiently captured (62.6 +/- 18.5% and 65.4 +/- 11.1%) than mesenchymal-like cancer cells (32.8 +/- 10.2%). These results were confirmed using an EMT-inducible breast cancer cell line. Lower recovery rates were found for the cells in a mesenchymal-like state (31.5 +/- 6.4%) than those in an epithelial state (47.56 +/- 7.2%). In conclusion, the Parsortix(R) device may underestimate the number of mesenchymal CTCs.
PXD056596	40532070	Quantitative Assessment of a Novel Device Designed for Patient-centric Sampling of Dried Plasma Using Targeted Proteomics. 	Quantitative assessment of a novel device designed for patient-centric sampling of dried plasma using targeted proteomics	microsampling, plasma proteomics, remote sampling, selected reaction monitoring, srm, stability, targeted proteomics	Technological advancements have significantly enhanced proteomics by improving the quality, depth, and timeliness of proteomic data, making mass spectrometry a promising tool for personalized medicine. To enable successful longitudinal population-level monitoring, it is essential to have cost-efficient and convenient sample collection methods that yield reliable results. Microsampling performed by patients in their own homes fulfills this requirement. In this study, we evaluate a novel microsampling device that readily prepares a dried plasma sample from blood collected through a finger prick. The device was assessed quantitatively through a targeted proteomics approach, using a selection of stable isotope-labeled protein fragments as standards for plasma proteins spanning a range from 1300 muM to 30 nM. All samples were analyzed using selected reaction monitoring to ensure quantitative robustness. The device was assessed both from a storage perspective and across a group of healthy donors to ensure reliable performance between individuals. The dried plasma obtained from the device shows an excellent quantitative correlation with conventional plasma (R > 0.99) and high quantitative precision, with a coefficient of variance (CV) below 10% for 80% of all peptides quantified in the group of healthy donors. All of the targets that perform well in the microsampling device also show good long-term stability when stored at room temperature for up to 232 days, further showcasing the potential benefits of collecting samples in a dry format.
PXD050059	40533307	Novel purine derivatives mitigate hypoxia ischemia related brain injury through agrin, zyxin and synaptotagmin proteins. 	Extended proteomes of brain organ from individual neonatal rats for understanding hypoxia-ischemia-related brain Injury and drug action.	Brain, Hypoxia, Ischemia, Molecular pathways, drug, encephalopathy, injury	Hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in newborns resulting in motor and cognitive impairment. Therapeutic hypothermia is the only treatment approved for HIE. Consequently, there is a critical requirement for additional treatments for hypoxic-ischemic (HI) brain injury because hypothermia is only partially protective. Pharmacological therapeutics are as yet not available to treat HIE. Therefore, we developed a novel trisubstituted purine-derivative drug (BRT_002) to attenuate HI related brain injury. The safety of BRT_002 was confirmed by treating adult rats with BRT_002 (100 mg/kg) for 7 days. Postnatal day-7 rats exposed to sham surgery or carotid ligation and 8% FiO2 for 90 min were given BRT_002 (30 mg/kg) or placebo intraperitoneally (IP) immediately, 24, and 48 h after the induction of HI. Pharmacokinetic studies revealed suitable systemic and brain exposure to BRT_002. Treatment with BRT_002 reduced neuropathological infarct volumes in the neonatal rats. Bioinformatics analyses of proteomic data identified upregulation of Agrin, Zyxin and Syt5 (p < 0.05) in both brain hemispheres in the male and female neonatal rats after treatment with BRT_002. BRT_002 also augmented mitochondrial respiration and produced metabolic changes in mouse neurons exposed to oxygen-glucose deprivation in vitro. Protein-protein interactions suggest that Syt5 interacts with major participants required to attenuate injury and/or facilitate parenchymal brain repair through Fblim1 that include Agrin, Zyxin, Vegfa, Vwf and mitochondrial targets. Our study provides preclinical findings that could serve as a foundation for future clinical trials of this novel purine derivative for the treatment of newborns exposed to HIE.
PXD058285	40533564	Kupffer cell programming by maternal obesity triggers fatty liver disease. 	Developmental programming of Kupffer cells by maternal obesity causes fatty liver disease in the offspring	fatty liver, kupffer cells, maternal obesity	Kupffer cells (KCs) are tissue-resident macrophages that colonize the liver early during embryogenesis(1). Upon liver colonization, KCs rapidly acquire a tissue-specific transcriptional signature, mature alongside the developing liver and adapt to its functions(1-3). Throughout development and adulthood, KCs perform distinct core functions that are essential for liver and organismal homeostasis, including supporting fetal erythropoiesis, postnatal erythrocyte recycling and liver metabolism(4). However, whether perturbations of macrophage core functions during development contribute to or cause disease at postnatal stages is poorly understood. Here, we utilize a mouse model of maternal obesity to perturb KC functions during gestation. We show that offspring exposed to maternal obesity develop fatty liver disease, driven by aberrant developmental programming of KCs that persists into adulthood. Programmed KCs promote lipid uptake by hepatocytes through apolipoprotein secretion. KC depletion in neonate mice born to obese mothers, followed by replenishment with naive monocytes, rescues fatty liver disease. Furthermore, genetic ablation of the gene encoding hypoxia-inducible factor-alpha (HIF1alpha) in macrophages during gestation prevents the metabolic programming of KCs from oxidative phosphorylation to glycolysis, thereby averting the development of fatty liver disease. These results establish developmental perturbation of KC functions as a causal factor in fatty liver disease in adulthood and position fetal-derived macrophages as critical intergenerational messengers within the concept of developmental origins of health and diseases(5).
PXD047626	40534468	ECM-Focused Proteomic Analysis of Ear Punch Regeneration in Acomys cahirinus. 	ECM-Focused Proteomic Analysis of Ear Punch Regeneration in <i>Acomys cahirinus</i>	Acomys cahirinus, extracellular matrix, fibrosis, matrisome, regeneration, scar-free, spiny mouse, tandem mass spectrometry, wound healing	While significant acute injury leads to a functionally deficient fibrotic scar in mammals, the spiny mouse Acomys cahirinus has evolved scar-free regeneration of severely damaged tissue. Extracellular matrix (ECM) composition is a critical regulator of wound repair, and previous studies have suggested that alterations in its expression may be responsible for the differences in regenerative capacity observed between Mus musculus and A. cahirinus, yet analysis of this critical tissue component has been limited in previous studies by its insolubility. Here, we utilize a two-step ECM-optimized extraction to perform proteomic analysis of tissue composition during wound repair after full-thickness ear punches in A. cahirinus and M. musculus from weeks 1 to 4 postinjury. We observe changes in various ECM proteins implicated in wound regeneration and fibrosis, including collagens, provisional matrix, coagulation proteins, and matricryptic signaling domains. We additionally report differences in cross-linking enzyme activity and ECM protein solubility between species. Furthermore, we observed rapid and sustained increases in pro-regenerative macrophage markers in Acomys but not in Mus. Together, these findings indicate that ECM differences contribute to the pro-regenerative restoration of functional tissue seen in Acomys and implicate potential targets for future therapies to attenuate scar formation in other mammals.
PXD062551	40534844	An mRNA-based workflow validating neo-epitope presentation through HLA-I/peptide affinity purification. 	An mRNA-based workflow for validation of Neo-Epitope Presentation by HLA-I/Peptide Affinity Purification	HLA-A*0201, immunopeptidomics, mRNA, p53 epitope	Presentation of human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-class I-restricted neo-epitopes is key for inducing an adaptive cytotoxic T-lymphocyte response against cancer. Validating presentation of these cancer-specific neo-epitopes following delivery to antigen-presenting cells (APCs) is critical to advance personalized therapeutic cancer vaccines. Current workflows for neo-epitope identification are often laborious and depend on computational deconvolution to determine the correct peptide sequence and its corresponding restriction element. We evaluated an mRNA-based workflow for more precise purification of HLA-I-peptide (pHLA)-complexes, facilitating peptide identification by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). This approach uses mRNA encoding a specific HLA-I-molecule fused to a Twin-Strep-Tag (HLA-TST), allowing affinity-based purification and downstream analysis of pHLA-complexes. As a proof-of-concept, we co-electroporated mRNA encoding TST-HLA-A*02:01 and mRNA encoding an HLA-A*02:01-restricted epitope in HLA-A*02:01-negative APCs. We demonstrated successful purification and detection of the delivered epitope via LC-MS/MS. These findings highlight the potential of the mRNA-based workflow to verify neo-epitope presentation by APCs. Still, further investigation is necessary to fully understand the technical variables that can influence peptide identification by LC-MS/MS.
PXD060948	40534885	Elucidation of B-cell specific drug immunogenicity liabilities via a novel ex vivo assay. 	Elucidation of B-cell specific drug immunogenicity liabilities via a novel ex vivo assay	DatasetType:Proteomics, MAPPs, anti-drug antibodies, immunogenicity, in vitro B cell assay	The advent of large molecule therapeutics has revolutionized treatment options for previously unmet medical needs. This advent has also led to an increased impact of immunogenicity on drug efficacy and safety. In order to maximize the potential of large molecule therapeutics, immunogenicity-related liabilities must be identified as early in development as possible, using an integrated risk assessment that takes into account the various cell types and processes involved. Here, we describe the development of an ex vivo B-cell immunogenicity assay, to capture a key component of the immune response that has been missing from previously published ex vivo immunogenicity assays. Plasmablasts/plasma cells were preferentially expanded in this assay, a subset of which were drug-specific and presented drug-specific peptides on MHC Class II. This assay represents an important tool in the immunogenicity risk assessment toolkit, to allow liabilities to be identified and mitigated early in the drug development process.
PXD061925	40536076	Impact of Iron Deficiency on the Arabidopsis thaliana Phloem Sap Proteome, a Key Role for bHLH121. 	Deciphering phloem sap protein composition to unravel long distance signaling in iron deficiency growth conditions.Deciphering phloem sap protein composition to unravel long distance signaling in iron deficiency growth conditions.	iron, phloem sap	Iron (Fe) is an essential micronutrient for plant growth and development whose homeostasis must be tightly regulated to avoid deficiency or excess that could be detrimental to the cells. In Arabidopsis thaliana, this mechanism is regulated by a series of transcription factors that act in an intricate regulatory network among which URI/bHLH121 (UPSTREAM REGULATOR OF IRT1) plays a predominant role. Tremendous efforts were deployed to decipher the molecular mechanisms that regulate iron homeostasis in plants. Nonetheless, the nature of the long-distance signal that conveys, via the phloem sap, information on the iron status of aerial tissues to the roots in order to coordinate iron uptake with the plant needs for iron is still to be determined. With the aim to identify potential actors involved in this process, we set up a proteomic analysis of the phloem sap of wild type Arabidopsis plants and bhlh121 loss-of-function mutants grown in iron-replete and iron-deficient conditions. We found that modifications in iron availability or the loss of URI activity have a profound impact on the phloem sap protein composition. We also found that some proteins whose translocation through the phloem sap is inhibited in response to iron deficiency are also affected in bhlh121 mutants. Interestingly, we discovered that some of the genes encoding such proteins are direct targets of URI, which suggests that the encoded proteins might act as potential signaling factors to regulate root iron uptake and/or root growth.
PXD047779	40536091	Proteomics and Phosphoproteomics Characteristics of the Rhesus Macaque Lung Infected With Original SARS-CoV-2, Delta, and Omicron Variants. 	Proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling of original, Delta, or Omicron strain SARS-CoV-2-infected lung of rhesus macaque	SARS-CoV-2, label free, lung, phosphoproteomics, rhesus macaque	The severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) strains mutate rapidly, making it crucial to study their molecular mechanisms for swift vaccine and drug development. Here, we utilized host lung proteomic and phosphoproteomic profiling to investigate the underlying pathology caused by the variants. Lung tissues infected with wild-type GD108, Delta, or Omicron BA.1 variants showed overexpression of proteins and phosphoproteins linked to the innate immune pathway, particularly in the Omicron group, with high activation of NOD-receptor and RIG-I like receptor signaling pathways. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis revealed six key proteins, including antiviral innate immune response receptor RIG-I (DDX58), and five interferon-related proteins (IFIT2, ISG15, MX1, STAT1, and EIF2AK2), highlighting the importance of the innate immune response in combating all three variants. Kinase prediction analysis suggested that six kinases (DAPK1, DAPK2, DAPK3, PRACK, TTK, and MAP2K2), potentially inhibited by Fostamatinib, were activated across all three variants, and might be potential drug targets, pending further verification. Omicron infection, compared to other mutants, significantly disrupted proteins related to pulmonary structural support, like integrin and collagens, and inhibited efferocytosis, reducing the host's ability to eliminate the pathogen. These findings suggest that innate immune activation and structural disruption may contribute to Omicron-related pathology, potentially being useful for research into the molecular mechanisms underlying lung injury from SARS-CoV-2 variants.
PXD059008	40536248	Low-Glucose Culture Conditions Bias Neuronal Energetics Towards Oxidative Phosphorylation. 	Low glucose culture conditions alter neuronal energetics, mimicking in vivo studies	Cell culture, Glucose, Neurobasal Media, Neuronal Bioenergetics, Primary mouse neuron, mitochondrial respiration	Neurons are almost exclusively cultured in media containing glucose at much higher concentrations than found in the brain. To test whether these "standard" hyperglycemic culture conditions affect neuronal respiration relative to near-euglycemic conditions, we compared neuronal cultures grown with minimal glial contamination from the hippocampus and cortex of neonatal C57BL/6NCrl mice in standard commercially available media (25 mM Glucose) and in identical media with 5 mM glucose. Neuronal growth in both glucose concentrations proceeded until at least 14 days in vitro, with similar morphology and synaptogenesis. Neurons grown in high glucose were highly dependent on glycolysis as their primary source of ATP, measured using ATP luminescence and cellular respirometry assays. In contrast, neurons grown in 5 mM glucose showed a more balanced dependence on glycolysis and mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), greater reserve mitochondrial respiration capacity, and increased mitochondrial population relative to standard media. Our results show that neurons cultured in artificially high glucose-containing media preferentially use glycolysis, opposite to what is known for neurons in vivo as the primary pathway for ATP maintenance. Changes in gene and protein expression levels corroborate these changes in function and additionally suggest that high glucose culture media increases neuronal inflammation. We suggest using neuronal culture systems in 5 mM glucose to better represent physiologically relevant neuronal respiration.
PXD054699	40537787	KChIP3 fosters neuroinflammation and synaptic dysfunction in the 5XFAD mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. 	KChIP3 promotes Alzheimers disease by impairing long-term potentiation and memory	Alzheimers disease, KChIP3, Neuroinflammation	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder marked by beta-amyloid (betaA) accumulation, neuroinflammation, excessive synaptic pruning, and cognitive decline. Despite extensive research, effective treatments remain elusive. Here, we identify potassium channel-interacting protein 3 (KChIP3) as a key driver of AD pathology using the 5XFAD mouse model. KChIP3 levels were significantly elevated in the hippocampus of 5XFAD mice, correlating with betaA burden and neuroinflammation. This upregulation was triggered by inflammatory signaling via the NLRP3 inflammasome and Caspase-1 activation. Notably, genetic deletion of KChIP3 (5XFAD/KChIP3(-/-)) markedly reduced betaA plaque deposition, pro-inflammatory cytokines, reactive gliosis, and expression of inflammation-related proteins (APO, CLU, MDK). Transcriptomic and proteomic analyses revealed restored synaptic markers (CD47, CD200, CACNB4, GDA) and a shift of the disease-associated microglial (DAM-1) phenotype. Mechanistically, we propose that KChIP3 amplifies AD pathology through two key mechanisms: (1) sustaining neuroinflammation by upregulating pro-inflammatory genes and (2) impairing synaptic integrity by repressing genes critical for neuronal function. Consistently, KChIP3 deletion enhanced dendritic complexity, synaptic plasticity, and cognitive performance in 5XFAD mice. These findings position KChIP3 as a potential therapeutic target for mitigating neuroinflammation and synaptic dysfunction in AD and highlight its potential as a biomarker for disease progression.
PXD060875	40539229	Detergent Screening With Hybrid Detergents Increases Observable Number of Protein Identities in Bottom-Up Proteomics. 	Detergent Screening with Hybrid Detergents Increases Observable Number of Protein Identities in Bottom-Up Proteomics	E. coli, SDS, bottum-up, hybrid detergent	Detergents are key reagents in bottom-up proteomics that create an apparent, yet underappreciated bias on observable proteomes. Maximizing the chemical diversity of detergents in parallelized screens is supposed to maximize observable proteomes if proteomics data sets of different detergents are combined. The aim of our work is to investigate the potential of fusing ionic and nonionic detergent headgroups into hybrid detergents for increasing the observable number of unique protein identities. Our data indicate that the solubilizing properties of hybrid detergents do not reflect an average of canonical detergents. The number of unique protein identities obtainable from an Escherichia coli screen increases from 1604 to 2169 when proteomics data sets from sodium dodecyl sulfate, dodecyltrimethylammonium bromide, dendritic triglycerol detergent, and related hybrid detergents are combined. Our data highlight the utility of cationic detergents and related hybrid detergents for enhancing observable proteomes. Detergent screening-based proteome reconstructions with canonical detergents and hybrid detergents present an interesting research direction towards improved proteome profiling applications.
PXD060898	40539870	Photoaffinity Ligand of Cystic Fibrosis Corrector VX-445 Identifies SCCPDH as an Off-Target. 	Photoaffinity ligand of Cystic Fibrosis corrector VX-445 identifies SCCPDH as an off-target	Elexacaftor, VU439, chemoproteomics, click chemistry, corre, cystic fibrosis (CF), cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), diazirine, mass spectrometry (MS), metabolomics, off-target, target identification	Cystic fibrosis (CF) pharmacological correctors improve the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein trafficking and function. Several side effects of these correctors and adverse drug interactions have been reported, emphasizing the need to understand off-targets. We synthesized VU439, a functionalized photoaffinity ligand (PAL) of VX-445. Chemoproteomics analysis by mass spectrometry (MS) was used to identify cross-linked proteins in CF bronchial epithelial cells expressing F508del CFTR. We identified saccharopine dehydrogenase-like oxidoreductase (SCCPDH), an uncharacterized putative oxidoreductase, as a VX-445-specific off-target. We also characterized changes in the metabolomic profiles of cells overexpressing SCCPDH to determine the consequence of binding of VX-445 to SCCPDH. These data show dysregulation of amino acid metabolism and a potential inhibitory activity of VX-445 on SCCPDH. The identified off-target may explain the exacerbation of psychological symptoms observed in the clinic, thus emphasizing the need for further optimization of correctors.
PXD058468	40540302	Nigericin Induces Paraptosis-Like Cell Death Instead of Pyroptosis in Corneal Keratocytes. 	Nigericin induced paraptosis-like cell death instead of pyroptosis in corneal keratocytes	corneal keratocytes, nigericin	The purpose of this study was to examine the nature of the underlying molecular mechanisms of cell death in human keratocytes treated with nigericin, a known pyroptosis inducer. Human keratocytes were exposed to nigericin, and cell death was assessed through morphological analysis and detection of related molecular markers. Proteomic profiling was performed to identify cell death-related proteins, with key findings validated by western blot. Additionally, organelle disruptions were examined using immunostaining techniques. Pyroptosis-like cell death was observed morphologically in cultured keratocytes. Moreover, an elevated release of IL-1beta was detected, accompanied by a significant loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. However, nigericin treatment induced a form of non-inflammatory cell death characterized by extensive vacuolation, resembling paraptosis. This was accompanied by the absence of caspase-3 activation and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress markers, along with increased accumulation of the autophagic marker LC3-II. Proteomic analysis revealed the absence of key components of the canonical pyroptosis pathway, including proteins involved in inflammasome assembly and the gasdermin (GSDM) family. These results were further confirmed by western blot. Significant alterations were also observed in the Golgi apparatus, mitochondria, and lysosomes following nigericin treatment. These findings suggest that nigericin triggers a paraptosis-like cell death in human keratocytes, rather than pyroptosis, as keratocytes lack the canonical executors of pyroptosis. This highlights an alternative mechanism of cell death in the cornea, warranting further exploration to understand its role and potential therapeutic implications.
PXD057067	40541176	Telmisartan is neuroprotective in a hiPSC-derived spinal microtissue model for C9orf72 ALS via inhibition of neuroinflammation. 	Telmisartan is neuroprotective in a hiPSC-derived spinal microtissue model for C9orf72-ALS via inhibition of neuroinflammation	Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, C9ORF72, astrocytes, cellular interactions, drug screen, human pluripotent stem cells, microglia, microtissue, motor neurons, neurodegeneration, neuroinflammation, spinal cord, three-dimension, triculture	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by progressive motor neuron (MN) loss. The most common genetic cause, a hexanucleotide repeat expansion in C9orf72 (C9-ALS), disrupts microglial function, contributing to neuroinflammation, a key disease driver. To investigate this, we developed a three-dimensional spinal microtissue (SM) model incorporating human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC)-derived MNs, astrocytes, and microglia. Screening 190 Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved compounds, we identified sartans-angiotensin II receptor I blockers (ARBs)-as potent inhibitors of neuroinflammation. Telmisartan, a highly brain-penetrant ARB, significantly reduced the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8 and rescued MN loss in C9-ALS SMs. Our findings suggest that C9-ALS microglia drive MN toxicity and that telmisartan can effectively mitigate inflammation and preserve MN viability. This work lays the groundwork for modeling disease-related neuroinflammation and points to telmisartan as a therapeutic candidate worth further exploration for treating C9-ALS.
PXD051650	40541182	Arachidonic acid triggers spermidine synthase secretion from primary tumor to induce skeletal muscle weakness upon irradiation. 	Proteome of extracellular vesicles derived from breast cancer cells	extracellular vesicles	Radiotherapy reduces the risk of cancer recurrence and death, but the fact that it's accompanied by multiple side effects including muscle fibrosis and weakness, seriously affects the life quality of patients. However, the underlying mechanism is poorly defined. Here, we identify that cancer cells secrete more spermidine synthase (SRM) enzyme through small extracellular vesicles to trigger skeletal muscle weakness upon radiotherapy. Mechanistically, irradiation-triggered arachidonic acid (ArA) accumulation elevates the ISGylation of the SRM protein, facilitating SRM packaging into extracellular vesicles from the primary tumor. Circulating SRM results in spermidine accumulation in skeletal muscle and type I collagen fiber biosynthesis in an eIF5A-dependent manner. However, losartan treatment blocks the ISGylation of SRM and its subsequent secretion. Collectively, our findings determine that ArA functions in concert for circulating SRM secretion upon radiotherapy, which aggravates skeletal muscle fibrosis through rewiring polyamine metabolism, shedding light on the alleviation of radiotherapy-mediated muscle weakness when combined with losartan treatment.
PXD054200	40541258	Temporal Dynamic Interplay of Mouse Proteome during Protozoan Babesia microti Infection Alone or with Borrelia burgdorferi Coinfection. 	Title: Temporal dynamic interplay of mouse proteome during protozoan Babesia microti infection alone or co-infection with Borrelia burgdorferi	Babesia microti, Borrelia burgdorferi, co-infection, host spatiotemporal dynamics, mouse proteomics	Apicomplexan protozoan parasite Babesia microti (Bm) and spirochete Borrelia burgdorferi are tick-transmitted pathogens that cause babesiosis and Lyme disease and increasingly cause coinfections. More pronounced Lyme arthritis occurs during the acute phase of coinfection compared to B. burgdorferi alone. In susceptible C3H mice, Bm parasitemia was quantified by microscopic examination of blood smears while live imaging of bioluminescent B. burgdorferi N40 strain-infected mice allowed monitoring of disseminated infection. Furthermore, proteomic analyses of blood samples unveiled nuanced temporal host gene expression. At 2 weeks postinfection, 31, 96, 76, and 22 unique proteins were detected in naive and N40+Bm-, N40-, and Bm-infected mice, respectively, while 3359 common proteins were identified across all groups. The proteomic landscape showed a significant overlap between naive and Bm-infected mice with the most pronounced differences from the coinfected group. Using fold change scatter plots, upregulation of proteins associated with cellular and metabolic processes was noticed particularly in the coinfected mice. At 4 weeks, proteomic profiles among naive, Bm, and coinfection mice demonstrate distinct host responses in blood. The overlap diminished further at 16 weeks with stage-specific clustering of proteins observed. Our findings illustrate intricate interactions between these two pathogens and valuable host proteome dynamics during infection.
PXD062221	40541527	Evidence That Dmrta2 Acts through Repression of Pax6 in Cortical Patterning and Identification of a Mutation Impairing DNA Recognition Associated with Microcephaly in Human. 	Evidence that Dmrta2 acts through repression of Pax6 in cortical patterning and identification of a mutation crucial for DNA recognition associated with microcephaly in human	cerebral cortex, neural progenitor, neurogenesis, transcription factor.	Dmrta2 (also designated Dmrt5) is a transcriptional regulator expressed in cortical progenitors in a caudomedial(high)/rostrolateral(low) gradient with important roles at different steps of cortical development. Dmrta2 has been suggested to act in cortex development mainly by differential suppression of Pax6 and other homeobox transcription factors such as the ventral telencephalic regulator Gsx2, which remains to be fully demonstrated. Here we have addressed the epistatic relation between Pax6 and Dmrta2 by comparing phenotypes in mutant embryos or embryos overexpressing both genes in various allelic combinations. We show that Dmrta2 cooperates with Pax6 in the maintenance of cortical identity in dorsal telencephalic progenitors and that it acts as a transcriptional repressor of Pax6 to control cortical patterning. Mechanistically, we show that in P19 cells, Dmrta2 acts as a DNA binding-dependent repressor on the Pax6 E60 enhancer and that a point mutation that affects its DNA binding properties identified in a consanguineous family leads to agenesis of the corpus callosum, pachygyria, and the absence of the cingulate gyrus. Finally, we provide evidence that Dmrta2 binds components of the NuRD repressor complex and interacts with zinc finger proteins such as Zfp423. Together, our results highlight the importance and conserved function of Dmrta2 in cortical development and provide novel insights into its mechanism of action.
PXD060970	40541806	YEATS2 O-GlcNAcylation Promotes Chromatin Association of the ATAC Complex and Lung Cancer Tumorigenesis. 	YEATS2 O-GlcNAcylation Promotes Chromatin Association of the ATAC complex and Lung Cancer Tumorigenesis	ATAC, H3K9ac, O-GlcNAc, YEATS2, ZZZ3	The intracellular O-linked N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) modification is known to be enriched in the nucleus and on chromatin, but many of its chromatin targets remain to be identified. Herein we demonstrate the O-GlcNAcylation of YEATS Domain Containing 2 (YEATS2), a subunit of the chromatin Ada-two-A-containing (ATAC) complex and a reader of histone H3K27ac. We show that YEATS2 interacts with the O-GlcNAc transferase (OGT) and further pinpoint its major O-GlcNAcylation site to be Thr604 using electron transfer dissociation mass spectrometry. O-GlcNAcylation promotes the chromatin association of YEATS2, and the affinity between YEATS2 and other ATAC components on chromatin, such as ZZZ3, GCN5 and PCAF. Downstream, YEATS2-T604A mutants attenuated the ATAC-dependent histone H3K9ac levels and inactivated the expression of essential ribosomal genes as shown in chromatin immunoprecipitation assays. Further, xenograft experiments show that YEATS2 O-GlcNAcylation promotes lung cancer tumorigenesis. Our work reveals the critical role of YEATS2 O-GlcNAcylation in stabilizing the ATAC complex on chromatin and expands the chromatin substrates of OGT.
PXD057467	40542110	Age-related changes in the proteome and mitochondrial metabolism of rabbit adipose-derived stromal/stem cells. 	Age-related changes in the proteome and mitochondrial metabolism of rabbit adipose-derived stromal/stem cells	adipose-derived stromal stem cells, mitochondrial metabolism, rabbit, stem cell ageing	Adipose tissue is continuously regenerated by stromal mesenchymal stem cells throughout life. This study hypothesises that early age-related changes in the proteome and metabolic properties of subcutaneous (s) and visceral (v) adipose tissue-derived stromal/stem cells (ASCs) from young and old rabbits contribute to a loss of stem cell plasticity and function. To test this, the proteome and metabolic properties of ASCs from young and old rabbits were analysed using mass spectrometry-based label-free quantification and mitochondrial respiration measurements (Seahorse Mito Cell Stress Test). Both sASCs and vASCs from old rabbits exhibited comparable clusters of differentially expressed proteins. However, age-related changes were more pronounced in sASCs, suggesting that ageing affects ASCs differently depending on anatomical origin. In particular, a cluster of mitochondrial proteins in sASCs was differentially expressed with age, correlating with a shift in metabolic profile. The increase in mitochondrial respiration indicates that ageing ASCs lose their quiescent state and plasticity, leading to accelerated proliferation and differentiation. These proteomic findings were validated by Western Blot analysis, which confirmed the differential expression of key mitochondrial proteins. These results highlight the role of cellular origin in stem cell ageing and provide insights into the mechanisms underlying age-related stem cell dysfunction.
PXD067234	40543705	Novel Kinesin Family 1A Variants Linked to Atypical Parkinsonism Elicit Altered Neuronal TDP-43 Interactions and Dendritic Atrophy. 	Novel Kinesin Family 1A Variants Linked to Atypical Parkinsonism Elicit Altered Neuronal TDP-43 Interactions and Dendritic Atrophy	KIF1A, TDP-43, iPSC motor neurons	Analysis of iPSC-derived neurons from the son of a father-son pair with novel familial Variants of Uncertain Significance in KIF1A [c.408C>G (p.Asp136Glu); c.3914G>A (p.Arg1305His)] reveal pathological features of altered TDP-43 localization, interactions and stunted dendritic arbors. Both patients developed spasticity and parkinsonism in their mid-60s, with the father dying at age 71. There was impaired putamenal dopamine uptake with preserved uptake in the caudate nuclei, and decreased anisotropy by tractography in multiple motor pathways. Given shared transcriptional mechanisms of hindbrain and spinal cord developmental patterning among neurons of the motor circuitry, iPSC-derived motor neurons from fibroblasts donated by the son were created to investigate the impact of KIF1A mutations on TDP-43 subcellular localization, biochemical interactions of endogenous wildtype- and mutant-KIF1A and endogenous TDP-43, and the pathological impact of these KIF1A variants on dendritic arborization using Sholl analysis. Neuropathological assessment of the father, who shared the same KIF1A variants, revealed tauopathy and TDP-43 proteinopathy throughout the brainstem. Quantitative imaging of patient iPSC neurons identified TDP-43 mislocalization to the soma and dendritic atrophy. The KIF1A variant also elicited decreased biochemical interactions of both itself and TDP-43 with a spectrum of known TDP-43-associated proteins. These data suggest that this novel KIF1A mutant mediates altered TDP-43 interactions, stunting of the synaptic architecture, and clinical phenotypes coincident with neurodegenerative movement disorders.
PXD058950	40545991	Defining the Molecular Impacts of Humalite Application on Field-Grown Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) Using Quantitative Proteomics. 	Defining the molecular impacts of Humalite application on field-grown wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) using quantitative proteomics	Humalite, Wheat	Increasing global food production demands have resulted in increased fertilizer usage, causing detrimental environmental impacts. Biostimulants, such as humic substances, are currently being applied as a strategy to increase plant nutrient-use efficiency and minimize environmental impacts within cropping systems. One of these biostimulants is Humalite, which is a unique, naturally occurring coal-like substance found in deposits across southern Alberta. These deposits contain exceptionally high ratios of humic acids (>70%) and micronutrients due to their unique freshwater depositional environment. Humalite has begun to be applied to fields based on scientific data suggesting positive impacts on crop growth, yield, and nutrient usage; however, little is known about the underlying molecular mechanisms of Humalite. Here, as part of a larger field study, we report a quantitative proteomics approach to identify systems-level molecular changes induced by the addition of different Humalite application rates in field-grown wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) under three urea fertilizer application rates. In particular, we see wide-ranging abundance changes in proteins associated with several metabolic pathways and growth-related biological processes that suggest how Humalite modulates the plant molecular landscape. Overall, our results provide new, functional information that will help better inform agricultural producers on optimal biostimulant and fertilizer usage.
PXD059025	40545996	Quantitative Proteomics of Cochlear Tissues: Bilateral Comparisons in Guinea Pigs and Rats. 	Quantitative Proteomics of Cochlear Tissues: Bilateral Comparisons in Guinea Pigs and Rats	Cochlear tissue, Guinea pigs, Mass-spectrometry, Rat	The cochlea, an incredibly sensitive sensory system, detects sound waves and converts them into electrical signals the brain recognizes as sound. Damage to cochlear hair cells can release proteins, triggering biological responses that may impair hearing. Mass spectrometry-based proteomics offers insights into protein expression changes in cochlear tissues, improving our understanding of inner ear diseases. In this study, we performed a comprehensive proteomics analysis of whole cochlear tissue extracted from healthy guinea pigs and rats. The study optimized protein extraction protocols and analyzed cochlear protein expression using three biological replicates for each animal model. The results included the identification of 1841 proteins in guinea pigs and 3423 proteins in rats, with a high overlap in cochlear protein expression between the left and right ears-93% in guinea pigs and 89% in rats. The findings validate the assumption that the cochlear tissues from both sides of the ears can be considered biologically equivalent. This experiment provides a comprehensive cochlear proteome for guinea pigs and rats, supporting future studies on inner ear disorders.
PXD064545	40548711	African swine fever virus MGF505-3R facilitates ferroptosis to restrict TBK1-IRF3 pathway. 	Identification of MGF505-3R interacting proteins by LC-MS/MS	African swine fever virus, GPX4, MGF505-3R, ferroptosis	African swine fever virus (ASFV) causes hemorrhagic, severe infectious diseases and serious economic losses to the pig industry. ASFV multigene family 505 can antagonize the host's innate immunity through multiple signaling pathways and is considered an important target for vaccine development. However, the mechanism by which it induces host cell damage remains unclear. In this study, we observed that ASFV infection, similar to RSL3, can induce ferroptosis with the accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and iron, decrease glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) expression, and restrain the Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1-nuclear factor E2-related factor (Keap1-Nrf2) pathway. Moreover, the expression of ferroptosis biomarkers (LOX and PTGS2) has been moderately upregulated. Some proteins related to ASFV replication, invasion, and infection were evaluated for evidence of ferroptosis. MGF505-3R interacts with GPX4 to undergo ferroptosis, resulting in ROS accumulation, mitochondrial membrane potential destruction, and NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy elevation. In addition, MGF505-3R suppressed the Keap1-Nrf2 pathway, while GPX4 activation counteracted its stimulatory effect on TANK-binding kinase 1 (TBK1)-IRF3 phosphorylation. Importantly, the transcription levels of interferon beta (IFN-beta), ISG15, and ISG54 were elevated after GPX4 activation, suggesting that ferroptosis resistance could reverse the inhibition of the TBK1-IRF3 pathway and IFN-beta levels induced by MGF505-3R. These findings provide new ideas and directions for elucidating the mechanism of ASFV-induced oxidative damage and lay a significant foundation for revealing the pathogenic mechanism of the virus by targeting ferroptosis. IMPORTANCE: We revealed that ASFV infection and MGF505-3R transfection induced the accumulation of iron and ROS, resulting in NCOA4-mediated ferritinophagy and ferroptosis, as well as restricted GPX4 expression and the Keap1-Nrf2 pathway. GPX4 activation promotes the TBK1-IRF3-IFN-beta pathway and exerts antiviral activity. These findings indicate that ASFV facilitates ferroptosis, providing a proof of principle that may be applicable to oxidative damage and lipid peroxidation manipulation-based therapy for ASFV infection. Given the GPX4 downregulation in ASFV infection, GPX4 activation and ferroptosis resistance highlight its potential as a therapeutic target for viral infection.
PXD060126	40550805	Multi-omics dissection of MAPK-driven senescence unveils therapeutic vulnerabilities in KIAA1549::BRAF-fusion pediatric low-grade glioma models. 	Multi-omics Dissection of MAPK-driven Senescence Unveils Therapeutic Vulnerabilities in KIAA1549::BRAF-fusion Pediatric Low-Grade Glioma Models	MAPK inhibitor, MAPK pathway, multi-omics, oncogene-induced senescence, pediatric low-grade glioma, senescence-associated secretory phenotype	Pilocytic astrocytomas (PA), the most common pediatric low-grade gliomas (pLGGs), are characterized by genetic MAPK pathway alterations leading to constitutive activation and oncogene-induced senescence (OIS) accompanied with the senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP). This study investigates the molecular mechanisms of signaling pathways regulating OIS and SASP in pLGGs using a multi-omics approach. We utilized senescent DKFZ-BT66 cells derived from a primary KIAA1549::BRAF-fusion positive PA to generate RNA-sequencing and phospho-/proteomic datasets before and after treatment with the MEK inhibitor trametinib. Multi-omics factor analysis (MEFISTO) and single sample gene set enrichment analysis (ssGSEA) were employed to identify key OIS effectors and differentially regulated pathways upon MAPK inhibition. Trametinib treatment inhibited MAPK activity, OIS and SASP signatures across all omics levels, functionally underscored by reduced sensitivity towards senolytic drugs. We constructed a pathway network using a prior knowledge approach, mapping n = 106 upregulated and n = 84 downregulated direct downstream effectors of MAPK leading to OIS/SASP. These effectors are associated with better progression-free survival in pLGG patients, independent of tumor site, level of resection, and genetic aberration. Several compounds targeting signaling nodes (SOD-1, IRS1, CDK1/2, CK2) involved in OIS and under MAPK control were identified, of which n = 4 were validated in an additional primary KIAA1549::BRAF fusion pLGG model as potential new therapeutic vulnerabilities for the treatment of pLGG. Our unbiased multi-omics signaling pathway analysis identifies a specific and comprehensive network of MAPK-OIS-SASP interdependencies in pLGGs and suggests new therapeutic strategies for these tumors.
PXD031909	40551776	In vitro demonstration and in planta characterization of a condensed, reverse TCA (crTCA) cycle. 	Evaluation of transgenic proteins in transformed Camelina sativa leaves	1D-LC, condensed rTCA cycle, metaproteome, metaproteomics, transformed plant, transgenic proteins	Introduction: Plants employ the Calvin-Benson cycle (CBC) to fix atmospheric CO2 for the production of biomass. The flux of carbon through the CBC is limited by the activity and selectivity of Ribulose-1,5-Bisphosphate Carboxylase/Oxygenase (RuBisCO). Alternative CO2 fixation pathways that do not use RuBisCO to fix CO2 have evolved in some anaerobic, autotrophic microorganisms. Methods: Rather than modifying existing routes of carbon metabolism in plants, we have developed a synthetic carbon fixation cycle that does not exist in nature but is inspired by metabolisms of bacterial autotrophs. In this work, we build and characterize a condensed, reverse tricarboxylic acid (crTCA) cycle in vitro and in planta. Results: We demonstrate that a simple, synthetic cycle can be used to fix carbon in vitro under aerobic and mesophilic conditions and that these enzymes retain activity whenexpressed transiently in planta. We then evaluate stable transgenic lines of Camelina sativa that have both phenotypic and physiologic changes. Transgenic C. sativa are shorter than controls with increased rates of photosynthetic CO2 assimilation and changes in photorespiratory metabolism. Discussion: This first iteration of a build-test-learn phase of the crTCA cycle provides promising evidence that this pathway can be used to increase photosynthetic capacity in plants.
PXD063072	40552401	Anthocyanins Prevent Mastitis Exacerbation by Inhibiting PANoptosis Activation. 	Proteomics of cyanidin 3-O-galactoside to alleviate LPS-induced inflammatory response in mammary epithelial cells of dairy goats	LPS, cyanidin 3-O-galactoside, inflammatory response, mammary epithelial cells of dairy goats	Mastitis poses a huge economic burden, with antibiotics treatment leading to drug residues and the emergence of bacterial resistance. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop alternatives to antibiotics for the treatment of mastitis. Anthocyanins (ACN) have excellent anti-inflammatory properties. However, the key pathways of mastitis disease progression and the therapeutic effects of ACN on mastitis remain poorly understood. In this study, using cows, goats, and mice as animal models, the efficacy of ACN extracts from crabapple fruit is investigated in alleviating the severity of mastitis and blood milk barrier (BMB) damage. A monomeric component, cyanidin 3-O-galactoside (C3Gal) is identified, that exhibited considerable effect on mastitis. Mechanistically, C3Gal regulated mastitis progression by inhibiting PANoptosis activation, and suppressing gasdermin D N-terminal activity to regulate BMB damage during mastitis. These findings establish PANoptosis as a critical pathway in the rapid progression of mastitis and highlight the potential of ACN extracts as effective alternatives to antibiotic for mastitis treatment. This study provides a promising strategy for the discovery and application of drugs for the treatment of inflammatory diseases, expands the application of ACN in inflammatory diseases, and elucidates the molecular mechanisms underlying its anti-inflammatory effect.
PXD062474	40552983	Acidosis attenuates the hypoxic stabilization of HIF-1alpha by activating lysosomal degradation. 	Acidosis attenuates the hypoxic stabilization of HIF-1alpha by activating its lysosomal degradation	Colorectal Cancer, Hypoxia inducible factor, SW1222, acidosis, hypoxia, tumour microenvironment	Hypoxia-inducible factors (HIFs) mediate cellular responses to low oxygen, notably enhanced fermentation that acidifies poorly perfused tissues and may eventually become more damaging than adaptive. How pH feeds back on hypoxic signaling is unclear but critical to investigate because acidosis and hypoxia are mechanistically coupled in diffusion-limited settings, such as tumors. Here, we examined the pH sensitivity of hypoxic signaling in colorectal cancer cells that can survive acidosis. HIF-1alpha stabilization under acidotic hypoxia was transient, declining over 48 h. Proteomic analyses identified responses that followed HIF-1alpha, including canonical HIF targets (e.g., CA9, PDK1), but these did not reflect a proteome-wide downregulation. Enrichment analyses suggested a role for lysosomal degradation. Indeed, HIF-1alpha destabilization was blocked by inactivating lysosomes, but not proteasome inhibitors. Acidotic hypoxia stimulated lysosomal activity and autophagy via mammalian target of rapamycin complex I (mTORC1), resulting in HIF-1alpha degradation. This response protects cells from excessive acidification by unchecked fermentation. Thus, alkaline conditions are permissive for at least some aspects of HIF-1alpha signaling.
PXD027453	40554602	The lncRNA Gas5 is an activity-responsive scaffold that mediates cAMP-dependent synaptic plasticity. 	Uncovering Protein Interacting Partners with lncRNA Gas5	Hippocampal Neurons	Changes in the transcriptome are critical in shaping the structural plasticity of neurons, which underpins learning and long-term memory storage. Here, we explored the effect of two opposing, plasticity-associated pathways-cAMP second-messenger signaling and metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR1 and mGluR5) signaling-on the transcriptome in hippocampal neurons and how these pathways operate in distinct and coordinated manners to induce structural changes. Integration of transcriptome data and molecular pathway analysis identified central "hub" genes that were rapidly induced by cAMP and/or mGluR1/5 in hippocampal neurons. These included the long noncoding RNA (lncRNA) Gas5, whose expression was induced specifically by cAMP and which was targeted to dendrites by the kinesin motor protein KIF1A. In the dendrites, Gas5 interacted with various proteins and coding and noncoding RNAs associated with synaptic function and plasticity, and these interactions were altered by cAMP signaling. Gas5 interacted with the microRNA miR-26a-5p and sequestered it from several of its mRNA targets associated with neuronal function and whose translation was induced by cAMP. Gas5 was critical for excitatory synaptic transmission induced by cAMP but not those induced by mGluR1/5. Furthermore, Gas5 deficiency impaired dendritic branching and synapse morphology, and Gas5 abundance was decreased in the hippocampus of a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Together, these findings provide insight into the transcriptional networks involved in synaptic plasticity and a lncRNA interactome that mediates dendritically localized regulation of excitatory synaptic transmission and neuronal architecture.
PXD060689	40557872	Nonredundant roles of topoisomerase 2alpha and 2beta in the cytosolic replication of vaccinia virus. 	Non-Redundant Roles of Topoisomerase 2alpha and 2beta in the Cytosolic Replication of Vaccinia VirusNon-Redundant Roles of Topoisomerase 2alpha and 2beta in the Cytosolic Replication of Vaccinia VirusNon-Redundant Roles of Topoisomerase 2alpha and 2beta in the Cytosolic	Topoisomerase 2, Vaccinia, replication	Vaccinia virus is a large enveloped DNA virus, which, like all poxviruses, replicates in the cytoplasm of infected cells. Vaccinia was historically thought to encode all the proteins required for its replication. However, more recent findings have shown that nuclear host proteins are redirected to the cytoplasm to facilitate viral replication. Among these, topoisomerase 2alpha (TOP2A) and 2beta (TOP2B), which mediate nuclear transcription, DNA replication, and chromosome segregation are the most abundant host proteins associated with nascent viral genomes. Here, we investigate the mechanisms driving TOP2A and TOP2B cytoplasmic translocation and their role in viral replication. We found that early viral protein synthesis induces the cytosolic relocalization of both isoforms, which are subsequently recruited to viral factories by an interaction of their C-terminal domains with the viral ligase, A50. TOP2A promotes replication by interacting with the vaccinia DNA replication machinery. In contrast, TOP2B suppresses replication by enhancing the formation of double-stranded RNA and antiviral granules, containing components of the tRNA splicing ligase complex. Our analysis provides new insights into host-pathogen interactions during poxvirus infection and the role of topoisomerase 2 outside of the nucleus.
PXD059983	40558519	Multi-Modal Analysis of Satellite Cells Reveals Early Impairments at Pre-Contractile Stages of Myogenesis in Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. 	Proteome analysis of  satellite cells from DMD and WT pigs	Duchenne muscular dystrophy, dystrophin, satellite cells	Recent studies on myogenic satellite cells (SCs) in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) documented altered division capacities and impaired regeneration potential of SCs in DMD patients and animal models. It remains unknown, however, if SC-intrinsic effects trigger these deficiencies at pre-contractile stages of myogenesis rather than resulting from the pathologic environment. In this study, we isolated SCs from a porcine DMD model and age-matched wild-type (WT) piglets for comprehensive analysis. Using immunofluorescence, differentiation assays, traction force microscopy (TFM), RNA-seq, and label-free proteomic measurements, SCs behavior was characterized, and molecular changes were investigated. TFM revealed significantly higher average traction forces in DMD than WT SCs (90.4 +/- 10.5 Pa vs. 66.9 +/- 8.9 Pa; p = 0.0018). We identified 1390 differentially expressed genes and 1261 proteins with altered abundance in DMD vs. WT SCs. Dysregulated pathways uncovered by gene ontology (GO) enrichment analysis included sarcomere organization, focal adhesion, and response to hypoxia. Multi-omics factor analysis (MOFA) integrating transcriptomic and proteomic data, identified five factors accounting for the observed variance with an overall higher contribution of the transcriptomic data. Our findings suggest that SC impairments result from their inherent genetic abnormality rather than from environmental influences. The observed biological changes are intrinsic and not reactive to the pathological surrounding of DMD muscle.
PXD062500	40559992	Unraveling the Central Role of Global Regulator PprI in Deinococcus radiodurans Through Label-Free Quantitative Proteomics. 	Differential Proteomics of pprI-Knockout Deinococcus radiodurans: A Label-Free Quantitative Analysis	Antioxidant defense, DNA damage repair, Label-free quantitative proteomics, Metabolic regulation, Radiation response metalloprotease	BACKGROUND: Deinococcus radiodurans, renowned for its exceptional resistance to radiation, provides a robust model for elucidating cellular stress responses and DNA repair mechanisms. Previous studies have established PprI as a key regulator contributing to radiation resistance through its involvement in DNA damage repair pathways, oxidative stress response, and metabolic regulation. METHODS: Building upon these foundations, our study employs label-free quantitative (LFQ) proteomics coupled with high-resolution mass spectrometry to systematically map pprI deletion protein networks by comparing the global proteomic profiles of pprI knockout and wild-type D. radiodurans strains. RESULTS: Under stringent screening criteria, we identified 719 significantly higher and 281 significantly lower abundant proteins in the knockout strain compared to wild-type strains. Functional analysis revealed that PprI deficiency disrupts homologous recombination (HR) repair, activates nucleotide excision repair (NER) and base excision repair (BER) as a compensatory mechanism, and impairs Mn/Fe homeostasis and carotenoid biosynthesis, leading to increased oxidative stress. Furthermore, PprI deficiency induces significant metabolic reprogramming, including impaired purine synthesis, compromised cell wall integrity, etc. Conclusions: These proteomic findings delineate the extensive regulatory network influenced by PprI, revealing coordinated perturbations across multiple stress response systems when PprI is absent.
PXD056088	40560076	Integrated Physical and Proteomic Approaches Dissect the Effect of Leather Degradation by Bacteria. 	Integrated Physical and Proteomic Approaches Dissect the Effect of Leather Degradation by Bacteria	Bacillus licheniformis, Biodegradation, Leather, Microorganism, Pseudomonas putida	Landfills and incineration of leather wastes cause serious environmental pollution. In contrast, leather biodegradation by microbes is an environmentally friendly option for the disposal of leather. However, the microbial degradation mechanism is not fully understood. In this study, Bacillus licheniformis (Gram-positive bacterium) and Pseudomonas putida (Gram-negative bacterium) were isolated from leather artifacts. The effects of leather degradation by these two bacteria were systematically investigated. P. putida and B. licheniformis destroyed the morphology of the leather and caused obvious color aberration by darkening, greening, and bluing the leather. The tensile strength of sheep leather was significantly damaged by B. licheniformis. P. putida and B. licheniformis altered the elemental contents and disrupted the collagen structure of cow and sheep leathers to varying degrees. Proteomic profiling revealed a significant depletion of structural proteins in cow and sheep leather substrates mediated by B. licheniformis, including collagen alpha-1(II) chain, collagen type VI, and fibrillar collagen. In contrast, many proteases and peptidases of B. licheniformis were increased, such as acylaminoacyl peptidase, aminopeptidase, and carboxypeptidase, suggesting that these enzymes contribute to the degradation of leather proteins. These findings highlighted that B. licheniformis can effectively degrade leather by secreting proteases and peptidases. This study provided new insights into the conservation and biodegradation of leather, which will contribute to green development of the leather industry.
PXD051741	40561118	Ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis of KNL2 driven by APC/CCDC20 is critical for centromere integrity and mitotic fidelity. 	KNL2 degradation is regulated by APC/C ubiquitin ligase	APC/C, Centromeres, D-box, E2 conjugating enzymes, E3 ligases, Kinetochore Null2, Protein-protein interactions	Kinetochores are large protein complexes that serve as attachment sites for spindle microtubules, ensuring proper chromosome segregation during cell division. KINETOCHORE NULL2 (alphaKNL2) is a key kinetochore protein required for the incorporation of the centromeric histone variant CENH3. The precise regulation of alphaKNL2 levels is crucial, but the molecular mechanisms controlling this process remain largely unexplored. In this study, we demonstrated that the Anaphase-Promoting Complex/Cyclosome (APC/C) mediates the ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis of alphaKNL2 during mitosis. Our findings revealed that alphaKNL2 accumulates in the presence of 26S proteasome inhibitors, and our yeast two-hybrid and proteomic screens showed that proteins from the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway interact with KNL2 in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and nematode (Caenorhabditis elegans). Arabidopsis alphaKNL2 directly interacts with Anaphase-Promoting Complex subunit 10 (APC10) and Cell Division Cycle 20.1 (CDC20.1), two substrate recognition components of the APC/C. RNAi-mediated depletion of APC/C resulted in the accumulation and mislocalization of endogenous alphaKNL2. Additionally, mutation or deletion of the D-box1 region, or substitution of residues K336 and K339, impaired alphaKNL2 degradation. The expression of a proteasome-resistant alphaKNL2 variant in planta caused severe defects in growth, fertility, and mitotic division. These findings show that APC/CCDC20-mediated degradation of alphaKNL2 is critical for proper kinetochore function and centromere integrity.
PXD059544	40562181	The intracellular free concentration of endocrine disrupting chemicals enables translation between cell-free and cell-based estrogenic activity assays. 	The intracellular free concentration of EDCs enables successful translation between cell-free and cell-based estrogenic activity assays	Endocrine-Disrupting Chemicals, estrogenic chemicals, in vitro, intracellular free concentration	Many environmental toxicants can activate estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha), disrupting normal endocrine function. While these activities are predicted across in silico, in vitro, and in vivo models, translating active concentrations between these systems remains challenging. We hypothesized that cellular uptake and the resulting free intracellular toxicant concentration could bridge this gap. Using cell-free (hER) and cell-based (ERalpha-CALUX cells) estrogen assays, we tested this hypothesis by determination of the free intracellular concentration available for binding to the intracellularly located ERalpha. Predictive modeling identified three classes of estrogenic chemicals from the ToxCast collection: bisphenols, parabens, and phthalates. Experimental data confirmed potency differences of up to 100-fold between the cell-free and cell-based models. Cellular toxicokinetic (TK) parameters, including cellular uptake and intracellular binding, were determined using computational and experimental methods. Incorporating experimental TK parameters significantly improved the correlation between ERalpha activities in the cell-free and cellular models (from r=0.6230, P=0.0989 without corrections to r=0.8869, P=0.0033 after corrections), and bridged the gap between the cell free and cell based assays. Both computational and experimental TK parameters varied widely across chemical classes and compounds. Correcting active concentrations for free intracellular levels enhanced assay correlations, with experimentally derived corrections showing the strongest improvement with r=0.8869 (compared to the in silico derived corrections with r=0.811). Our findings highlight the critical role of free intracellular concentration in determining the biological activity of estrogenic toxicants and emphasize its importance in accurately assessing their endocrine-disrupting potential.
PXD058653	40562609	Integrated proteomic and targeted Next Generation Sequencing reveal relevant heterogeneity in lower-grade meningioma and ANXA3 as a new target in NF2 mutated meningiomas. 	Integrated proteomic, DNA methylation, and targeted Next Generation Sequencing reveals relevant heterogeneity in lower-grade meningioma and a new target in NF2 mutated meningiomas	Genomics, Meningioma, NF2	BACKGROUND: Meningiomas, the most common primary brain tumours, are classified by the World Health Organization (WHO) into grades 1, 2, and 3. Some grade 1 tumours exhibit increased clinical aggressiveness, with the biallelic mutation of NF2 being the most frequently reported. METHODS: In our study, we analysed the most common driver mutations (NF2, AKT1, KLF4, and TRAF7) in meningioma by genomics describing co-occurrences and new mutations. Furthermore, tumour tissue bearing the driver mutations was analysed by proteomics. The relevance of the specific target found in the most common driver mutation in meningiomas (NF2) was validated in vitro using both lower and higher-grade meningioma and further, the higher-grade meningioma was analysed in vivo using an NOD scid gamma (NSG) mouse model. FINDINGS: Our genomic data revealed co-occurrences of non-NF2 mutations in lower-grade meningiomas, suggesting synergistic effects supporting tumour growth. NF2(-/-) meningiomas showed distinct proteomic clustering, with different mutations found in these clusters. Additionally, proteomics identified Annexin-3 (ANXA3) upregulated in NF2(-/-) meningioma. Its role in proliferation was confirmed in grade 1 and subsequently grade 3 tumours in vitro and with abolished growth when knocked down in a meningioma mouse model. INTERPRETATION: These findings highlight new targets in different meningioma backgrounds, presenting ANXA3 as a potential therapeutic target for meningioma treatment. FUNDING: This work was funded by the Brain Tumour Centre of Excellence.
PXD063449	40562743	Iron regulatory pathways differentially expressed during Madurella mycetomatis grain development in Galleria mellonella. 	Iron regulatory pathways differentially expressed during Madurella mycetomatis grain development in Galleria mellonella	Eumycetoma, Galleria mellonella, mycetomatis grain, siderophores, transcriptomics	Mycetoma is a chronic granulomatous infection of the subcutaneous tissue, most often caused by the fungal pathogen Madurella mycetomatis. Characteristic of the infection is the formation of grains. However, knowledge of the function and formation of the grain is limited. Here, we use a Galleria mellonella larvae infection model and transcriptomic profiling to identify processes associated with M. mycetomatis grain formation. Larvae were infected with M. mycetomatis and, after 4, 24, 72 and 168 h post-inoculation, RNA was extracted from larval content and sequenced. We found that 3498 G. mellonella and 136 M. mycetomatis genes were differentially expressed during infection. In particular, genes encoding proteins related to iron transport were highly expressed by both G. mellonella (transferrin and ferritin) and M. mycetomatis (SidA, SidD and SidI). LC-MS/MS analysis of M. mycetomatis cultured under iron-limiting conditions revealed the presence of SidA and SidD orthologs, and concurrent RP-HPLC and LC-MS identified a singly charged, putative siderophore in culture supernatant. Furthermore, we show that M. mycetomatis can obtain iron from holoferritin. Thus, our results highlight the importance of iron acquisition pathways during grain formation, suggesting potential avenues for development of new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for mycetoma.
PXD060330	40562835	Enhancing autophagy by redox regulation extends lifespan in Drosophila. 	Analysis of cysteine redox state with age in flies overexpressing catalase	Drosophila, ageing, catalase	Dysregulation of redox homeostasis is implicated in the ageing process and the pathology of age-related diseases. To study redox signalling by H2O2 in vivo, we established a redox-shifted model by manipulating levels of the H2O2-degrading enzyme catalase in Drosophila. Here we report that ubiquitous over-expression of catalase robustly extends lifespan in females. As anticipated, these flies are strongly resistant to a range of oxidative stress challenges, but interestingly are sensitive to starvation, which could not be explained by differences in levels of energy reserves. This led us to explore the contribution of autophagy, which is an important mechanism for organismal survival in response to starvation. We show that autophagy is essential for the increased lifespan by catalase upregulation, as the survival benefits are completely abolished upon global autophagy knock-down. Furthermore, using a specific redox-inactive knock-in mutant, we highlight the in vivo role of a key regulatory cysteine residue in Atg4a, which is required for the lifespan extension in our catalase model. Altogether, these findings confirm the redox regulation of autophagy in vivo as an important modulator of longevity.
PXD059676	40563258	Multi-Omics Analysis of Chronic Heat Stress-Induced Biological Effects, Liver Injury, and Heat Tolerance Mechanisms via Oxidative and Anti-Inflammatory Pathways in Early-Pregnancy Sows. 	Effects of Heat Stress on Liver Function Damage and Mechanisms in Pregnant Sows	Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), heat stressliver cell damageembryo implantation	The prenatal environment critically influences sow and offspring health, with the liver being highly susceptible to heat stress (HS) and vital for antioxidant defense. However, mechanisms underlying HS impacts on early pregnancy and hepatic adaptation remain unclear. This study applied multi-omics to analyze chronic HS responses in early-pregnancy sows. Results demonstrated that HS reduced blood oxygen (PO2) and basophils while elevating red blood cell parameters (RBC, HGB, and HCT). Endocrine disruptions included upregulated adrenal hormones (ACTH and cortisol) and suppressed thyroid (T3 and TSH) and reproductive hormones (LH1 and FSH). Liver dysfunction was evident through elevated biomarkers (AST, ALT, and TBIL) and pro-inflammatory IL-6, coupled with reduced anti-inflammatory IL-10. HS induced oxidative stress, marked by increased total antioxidant capacity (T-AOC) but decreased SOD and MDA levels. Liver tissue exhibited apoptosis (Bax/CD8 upregulated and Bcl-2 downregulated) and upregulated heat shock proteins (HSP70/90). Multi-omics analysis demonstrated that under heat stress conditions, the pyrimidine metabolism, oxidative phosphorylation, and tryptophan metabolism pathways were significantly upregulated in the liver. This upregulation may be mediated by key metabolites, including AMP, NAD, and UMP. These metabolites likely contribute to the body's adaptation to heat stress. Chronic HS impaired liver function and anti-inflammatory responses but triggered compensatory antioxidant and metabolic reprogramming. These findings underscore the liver's dual characteristics of vulnerability and resilience under high-temperature stress, offering valuable mechanistic insights that can inform strategies to enhance heat tolerance in pregnant sows.
PXD051390	40563475	Unraveling the Multi-Omic Landscape of Extracellular Vesicles in Human Seminal Plasma. 	Characterization of extracellular vesicles in human seminal plasma: a multiomic analysis	extracellular vesicles, multi-omics, seminal plasma, transcriptomics	Extracellular Vesicles (EVs) from seminal plasma have achieved attention due to their potential physiopathological role in male reproductive systems. This study employed a comprehensive proteomic and transcriptomic approach to investigate the composition and molecular signatures of EVs isolated from human seminal plasma. EVs from Normozoospermic (NORMO), OligoAsthenoTeratozoospermic (OAT), and Azoospermic (AZO) subjects were isolated using a modified polymer precipitation-based protocol and characterized for size and morphology. Comprehensive proteomic analysis, using both gel-free and gel-based approaches, revealed distinct protein profiles in each group (p<0.01), highlighting potential molecules and pathways involved in sperm function and fertility. The data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD051361 and PXD051390, respectively. Transcriptomic analysis confirmed the trend of a general downregulation of AZO and OAT compared to NORMO shedding light on regulatory mechanisms of sperm development. Bioinformatic tools were applied for functional omics analysis; the integration of proteomic and transcriptomic data provided a comprehensive understanding of the cargo content and regulatory networks present in EVs. This study contributes to elucidating the key role of EVs in the paracrine communication regulating spermatogenesis. A full understanding of these pathways not only suggests potential mechanisms regulating male fertility but also offers new insights into the development of diagnostic tools targeting male reproductive disorders.
PXD050332	40564930	Proteomic Analysis of ARID1A-Deficient Ovarian Clear Cell Carcinoma Cells Reveals Differential Mitochondria ETC Subunit Abundances and Targetable Mitochondrial Pathways. 	Global Proteomic Analysis of Ovarian Clear Cell Carcinoma Cells Lacking ARID1A Reveals Upregulated Mitochondrial Electron Transport Chain Activity	ARID1A, mitochondria, mitochondrial electron transport chain, ovarian clear cell carcinoma	ARID1A-deficient ovarian clear cell carcinoma is a highly lethal gynecologic cancer that depends heavily on mitochondrial respiration. Our biochemical and proteomic analyses reveal that ARID1A knockout cells exhibit marked upregulation of specific subunits within mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) Complexes I, III, and IV. However, this upregulation does not directly translate into increased sensitivity to broad-spectrum inhibitors targeting these complexes. These findings suggest that broad-spectrum mitochondrial inhibitors may not be effective therapeutic options for ARID1A-deficient cancers. Instead, the selective inhibition of specific ETC subunits may offer a more promising approach to exploit the metabolic vulnerabilities of ARID1A-deficient cells.
PXD049001	40565155	Proteomic Profiling Identifies MARCO in Extracellular Vesicles, as a Potential Biomarker for Leishmaniasis in HIV Co-Infection. 	Proteomic characterization of extracellular vesicles recovered from peripheral blood from a patient with active leishmaniasis in the context of HIV co-infection	Biomarkers, Extracellular Vesicles, HIV-co infection, Leishmania, MARCO	Leishmania is an intracellular protozoan parasite that causes leishmaniasis, a disease prevalent in 97 countries. Co-infection with HIV increases susceptibility to visceral leishmaniasis (VL), accelerating HIV's progression to AIDS. Managing VL in HIV-infected individuals is challenging due to atypical presentations and limited therapeutic responses, highlighting the need to develop new disease management strategies. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) hold great promise for this goal as they can be used for a higher understanding of biological processes and biomarker discovery. In this context, a proteomic analysis was carried out from plasma-EVs of an HIV/VL patient over two years and compared to HIV and healthy controls. The analysis confirmed classical EV markers but showed limited detection of Leishmania proteins. However, variations in human protein abundance related to relevant immunological processes were observed. Notably, the macrophage receptor with a collagenous structure (MARCO) was consistently detected only in the patient and not in the control groups. Significantly, the relevance of MARCO as a possible VL biomarker was confirmed using a validation cohort with five VL patients and its detection by Western Blot was possible. Although MARCO warrants further investigation as a VL related biomarker, the study of EVs confirmed their promise of being a privileged window into this disease. Future studies are needed to broaden data on EVs in infections to improve clinical management.
PXD062643	40566603	Exceptional Heme Tolerance in Serratia plymuthica: Proteomic Insights into Oxidative Stress Adaptation in the Aedes aegypti Midgut. 	High Heme Resistance in Serratia plymuthica: Adaptive Mechanisms and Possible Role in Aedes aegypti Midgut Homeostasis	Aedes aegypti, Serratia plymuthica, heme detoxification, hemin tolerance, midgut microbiota, oxidative stress	Serratia plymuthica, isolated from the midgut of Aedes aegypti, displays remarkable resilience to hemin, a toxic hemoglobin byproduct generated during blood digestion. This study explores its proteomic adaptations under oxidative stress induced by 5 mM hemin, mimicking midgut conditions. Growth assays demonstrated that S. plymuthica tolerated hemin concentrations ranging from 5 microM to 1 mM, reaching the stationary phase within approximately 10 h. Colonies exhibited morphological changes-darkened peripheries and translucent halos-suggesting heme accumulation and detoxification. Label-free quantitative proteomics identified 436 proteins, among which 28 were significantly upregulated-including universal stress proteins (USPs), ABC transporters, and flavodoxin-while 54 were downregulated, including superoxide dismutase and several ribosomal proteins. Upregulated proteins were associated with antioxidant defense, heme transport, and redox regulation, whereas downregulated proteins suggested metabolic reprogramming to conserve energy under stress. Functional enrichment analysis revealed significant alterations in transmembrane transport, oxidative stress response, and central metabolism. These findings suggest that S. plymuthica contributes to redox homeostasis in the mosquito gut by mitigating reactive oxygen species (ROS) and detoxifying excess heme, supporting its role as a beneficial symbiont. The observed stress tolerance mechanisms may influence mosquito physiology and vector competence, offering novel insights into mosquito-microbiota interactions and potential microbiota-based strategies for vector control.
PXD064633	40568700	Proteomic analysis of outer membrane vesicles derived from the type A5 Strain of Mannheimia haemolytica. 	Proteomic Analysis of Outer Membrane Vesicles Derived from the Type A5 Strain of Mannheimia haemolytica	Mannheimia haemolytica type A5, in vitro test., inflammatory response, outer membrane vesicles	Mannheimia haemolytica (M. haemolytica) cause mastitis in sheep, acute sepsis in newborn lambs, and co-infections with various pathogens, leading to bovine respiratory disease syndrome (BRDS), these infections have resulted in significant economic losses to both domestic and international farming industries. An in-depth understanding of the pathogenic mechanisms of M. haemolytica is crucial for the prevention and control of this disease. Outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) play a vital role in bacterial pathogenesis, serving as key mediators of interactions between Gram-negative bacteria and their hosts. However, the specific role of OMVs in the pathogenic process of M. haemolytica remains poorly understood. To address this, we isolated OMVs from the Mannheimia haemolytica Type A5 strain (MH-5) using ultracentrifugation and subsequently characterized their secretory properties, protein composition, and immunogenicity through electron microscopy, liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS), and cellular experiments. The electron microscopy results indicated that the MH-5 strain secreted OMVs under natural growth conditions. Proteomic and bioinformatics analyses revealed that these OMVs contained 282 proteins, with significant enrichment in proteins related to immunity, iron metabolism, and catalytic activity. Cellular experiments demonstrated that, compared to the control group, the OMVs group exhibited a significant increase in the mRNA expression of IL-1beta, IL-6, and TNF-alpha, with secretion levels increasing in a dose-dependent manner, thereby enhancing the inflammatory response. These findings lay the groundwork for further exploration of the role of OMVs in the pathogenesis of M. haemolytica and provide insights for the development of effective vaccines and antibiotics against this pathogen.
PXD064422	40568943	Mutational analysis of the F plasmid partitioning protein ParA reveals residues required for oligomerization and plasmid maintenance. 	Mass Spectrometry of Escherichia coli expressing ParA from F' plasmid or weak IPTG inducible promoter (pDSW210 vector)	Escherichia coli, F plasmid, ParA	Mobile genetic elements such as plasmids play a crucial role in the emergence of antimicrobial resistance. Hence, plasmid maintenance proteins such as ParA of the Walker A-type ATPases/ParA superfamily are potential targets for novel antibiotics. Plasmid partitioning by ParA relies on ATP-dependent dimerization and formation of chemophoretic gradients of ParA-ATP on bacterial nucleoids. Though polymerization of ParA has been reported in many instances, the need for polymerization in plasmid maintenance remains unclear. In this study, we provide insights into the polymerization of ParA and the effect of polymerization on plasmid maintenance. We report two mutations, Q351H and W362E, in ParA from the F plasmid (ParAF) that form cytoplasmic filaments independent of the ParBSF partitioning complex. Both variants fail to partition plasmids, do not bind non-specific DNA, and act as super-repressors to suppress transcription from the ParAF promoter. Further, we show that the polymerization of ParAF requires an ATP-dependent conformational switch. We identify two residues, R320 in helix 12 and E375 in helix 14 at the interface of the predicted ParAF filament structure, whose mutations abolish filament assembly of ParAF W362E and affect plasmid partitioning. Our results thus suggest a role for the C-terminal helix of ParAF in plasmid maintenance and assembly into higher order structures.
PXD046958	40569692	The E3 ubiquitin ligase Cul5 regulates hematopoietic stem cell function for steady-state hematopoiesis in mice. 	The E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Cul5 Limits HSPC Expansion and Myeloproliferative Disease in Mice	Cul5, E3 Ubiquitin Ligase, HSPC Expansion, JAK2 signaling, Myeloproliferative Neoplasms	The balance of hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) self-renewal versus differentiation is essential to ensure long-term repopulation capacity while allowing response to events that require increased hematopoietic output. Proliferation and differentiation of HSCs and their progeny is controlled by the JAK/STAT pathway downstream of cytokine signaling. E3 ubiquitin ligases, like Cullin 5 (Cul5), can regulate JAK/STAT signaling by degrading signaling intermediates. Here we report that mice lacking Cul5 in hematopoietic cells (Cul5Vav-Cre) have increased numbers of HSPCs, splenomegaly, and extramedullary hematopoiesis. Differentiation in Cul5Vav-Cre mice is myeloid- and megakaryocyte-biased, resulting in leukocytosis, anemia and thrombocytosis. Cul5Vav-Cre mice increased HSC proliferation and circulation, associated with a decrease in CXCR4 surface expression. In bone marrow cells, we identified LRRC41 co-immunoprecipitated with CUL5, and vice versa, supporting that CRL5 forms a complex with LRRC41. We identified an accumulation of LRRC41 and STAT5 in Cul5Vav-Cre HSCs during IL-3 stimulation, supporting their regulation by Cul5. Whole cell proteome (WCP) analysis of HSPCs from Cul5Vav-Cre bone marrow identified upregulation of many STAT5 target genes and associated pathways. Finally, JAK1/2 inhibition with ruxolitinib normalized hematopoiesis in Cul5Vav-Cre mice. These studies demonstrate the function of Cul5 in HSC function, stem cell fate decisions, and regulation of IL-3 signaling.
PXD055159	40571162	A Methanolic Urea-enhanced Protein Extraction Enabling the Largest Bacterial Phosphorylation Resource. 	Universal and robust bacterial phosphoproteomics analysis	Phosphoproteomics, phosphopeptide enrichment, protein extraction	Mass spectrometry (MS)-based phosphoproteomics analysis is a powerful approach for elucidating the regulatory roles of protein phosphorylation across all domain of life. However, bacterial phosphoproteomics still faces significant technical challenges due to the extremely low substoichiometry of phosphorylation evens and the structural complexity of bacterial cell envelopes, which impede efficient cell lysis, protein recovery and purity. To address these obstacles, we developed Methanolic Urea-enhanced Protein Extraction (MUPE), a streamlined, detergent-free, solvent-based method that leverages the amphiphilic nature of methanol and the chaotropic properties of urea to enhance protein yield and lysis efficiency. Furthermore, MUPE seamlessly integrates with liquid-liquid extraction, enabling efficient protein purification without requiring sample transfer and complex manipulations. This workflow significantly improves phosphoproteome coverage and quantitative accuracy across Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria, while minimizing sample input requirements. Our datasets substantially expand the known landscape of bacterial O-phosphorylation, revealing distinct phosphorylation preferences within bacterial signaling networks. Application of MUPE to Listeria monocytogenes under bile insult revealed extensive phosphorylation changes independent of protein expression, highlighting phosphorylation as a rapid and dynamic regulatory mechanism. Collectively, MUPE provides a robust and scalable platform for bacterial phosphoproteomic studies, advancing our understanding of phosphosignaling in the context of bacterial physiology and pathogenesis.
PXD052479	40571699	Integrin beta 1 facilitates non-enveloped hepatitis E virus cell entry through the recycling endosome. 	Integrin beta 1 facilitates non-enveloped hepatitis E virus cell entry through the recycling endosome	Liver Cell Lines	Hepatitis E virus (HEV) is a major cause of acute hepatitis and mainly transmitted faecal-orally. HEV particles present in faeces are naked (nHEV), whereas those found in the blood are quasi-enveloped (eHEV) with a cell-derived lipid membrane. Despite its global health impact, the cellular life cycle of HEV remains poorly understood, particularly regarding the mechanisms of viral entry into host cells. To address this knowledge gap, we develop a high content RNA-FISH-based imaging assay that allows for the investigation of the entry pathways of both naked and quasi-enveloped HEV particles. Surprisingly, we find that integrin alpha3, previously implicated in nHEV cell entry, is not expressed in the cell types that are most permissive for HEV infection. Instead, we identify integrin beta1 (ITGB1) pairing with different alpha-integrins as the key player mediating nHEV cell entry. Our results indicate that the interaction of nHEV with ITGB1 facilitates entry through Rab11-positive recycling endosomes. In contrast, eHEV particles do not interact with ITGB1 and enter cells using a classical endocytic route via Rab5a-positive early endosomes. The entry of both types of HEV particles requires endosomal acidification and proteolytic cleavage by lysosomal cathepsins, which ultimately results in delivery of the HEV genome to the cytoplasm.
PXD056708	40572231	Membrane Vesicles of Enterococcus faecalis: In Vitro Composition Analysis and Macrophage Inflammatory Response Under Different pH Conditions. 	Proteomic analysis of membrane vesicles of enterococcus faecalis under different pH conditions	Enterococcus faecalis, Membrane vesicles	Enterococcus faecalis (E. faecalis) is one of the most detected bacteria in persistent apical periodontitis (PAP), with alkaline tolerance enabling post-treatment survival. In this study, we will investigate how alkaline conditions alter proteomic and metabolomic profiles of E. faecalis membrane vesicles (MVs) and preliminarily investigate the role of MVs of E. faecalis in the regulation of macrophage inflammatory response. E. faecalis MVs were characterized using transmission electron microscopy and nanoparticle tracking analysis under varying pH conditions. MVs' proteomic and metabolomic profiling across pH levels was compared. The effects of E. faecalis MVs on human dTHP-1 macrophages were evaluated using CCK-8 metabolic activity assays and ELISA-based quantitative analysis of inflammatory cytokines. In this study, the presence of E. faecalis MVs was verified, and the alkaline environment of pH 9.0 did not alter their production. Through proteomic and metabolomic analysis, we observed that ATP synthase and stress proteins, as well as lysine degradation and tryptophan metabolism pathways, were significantly enriched in the MVs at pH 9.0. Finally, we observed that both E. faecalis MVs at pH 7.0 and pH 9.0 could dose-dependently inhibit the activity of dTHP-1 cells. E. faecalis MVs promote the secretion of IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, IL-1ra, and TGF-beta by macrophages. Compared to pH 7.0, pH 9.0 E. faecalis MVs have a reduced effect on IL-1ra and TGF-beta secretion. Additionally, we observed a significant increase in the IL-1beta/IL-1ra ratio after treatment with E. faecalis MVs. Our study indicated that E. faecalis can produce MVs in pH 7.0 and pH 9.0 environments. ATP synthase, stress proteins, as well as lysine degradation and tryptophan metabolism pathways, were significantly enriched in pH 9.0 MVs. Furthermore, E. faecalis MVs could promote inflammatory responses in macrophages and dose-dependently inhibit the viability of dTHP-1 cells.
PXD057672	40574274	Aggregatibacteraphrophilus T6SS Effectors in Host-Bacterial Interactions. 	A. aphrophilus uses a type VI secretion system to modify epithelial cell responses to highly leukotoxic A. actinomycetemcomitans	A. actinomycetemcomitans, A. aphrophilus, T6SS	Aggregatibacter aphrophilus is the only known oral bacterium with a functional type VI secretion system (T6SS) that acts against Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans. Bacteria use the T6SS to deliver toxic effectors into bacterial or eukaryotic cells during interbacterial competition or host colonization. To date, the T6SS of A. aphrophilus has not been demonstrated to participate in antieukaryotic activity, nor have the cytotoxic effectors involved been identified. Here, we identified 2 T6SS effectors in A. aphrophilus, a glycosyl hydrolase (Glh) and a phospholipase D (Tle5), which, upon inactivation of their respective genes, together resulted in abolished T6SS activity against A. actinomycetemcomitans in multispecies biofilms. Next, we probed the role of the 2 T6SS effectors in host-cell interactions using gingival keratinocytes. Interestingly, although neither of the effectors appeared to contribute to the acute inflammatory response directly, the co-presence of both species reduced the inflammatory effect, likely due to the T6SS-dependent elimination of A. actinomycetemcomitans, hence decreasing the bacterial abundance. This reduction was not observed using A. aphrophilus mutants lacking the effectors or the T6SS "tube" core protein, hemolysin co-regulated protein (Hcp). Here, we show that the T6SS effectors in A. aphrophilus have distinct functions in eukaryotic versus bacterial cell interactions. Hence, these T6SS effectors may represent novel mechanisms of interaction between bacteria and the oral-mucosal barrier, offering potential therapeutic targets for managing periodontal pathogens.
PXD060201	40574313	Proteomic Analysis of FFPE Tissue Samples Identifies Potential Molecular Mechanisms Mediating Resistance to Radiotherapy in Rectal Cancer. 	Proteomic Analysis of FFPE Tissue Samples Identifies Potential Molecular Mechanisms Mediating Resistance to Radiotherapy in Rectal Cancer	Colorectal cancer, ER stress, FFPE tissue, LC-MS, proteome profiling, radioresistance, radiotherapy, resistance mechanisms, tumor-associated stroma	Chemoradiation prior to surgery in locally advanced rectal cancer is the current standard therapy but is not effective in all rectal cancer patients. Prognostic markers supporting patient stratification with respect to clinical response would therefore be desirable. The aim of this study was to investigate pathophysiological mechanisms underlying radioresistance and to identify potential prognostic markers by comparative proteome profiling. Therefore, formalin fixed paraffin-embedded tissue (FFPE) samples from rectal tumors (n = 50) and normal control tissue (n = 39) of nonresponders and responders to neoadjuvant chemoradiation were analyzed. As a result, 1685 robustly identified proteins were further evaluated. Comparing tumor with corresponding control samples revealed 221 differentially expressed proteins (FDR < 0.05) with FTL, PCOLCE, and RCN3 being most striking in tumor tissue. CEACAM 1, 5, and 6, as well as MCM protein complex components, were significantly up-regulated in tumor tissue of nonresponders. The autophagic activity-related and DNA damage repair proteins TOM1, CAPNS1, TP53BP1, HS1BP3, as well as COTL1 and DCPS, discriminated non- and nearly complete from complete responders. In the tumor-surrounding tissue of nonresponders, the innate immune response-suppressing protein CD55 was found specifically up-regulated. These proteins may serve as prognostic markers and potential therapeutic targets, requiring further validation in prospective studies.
PXD058661	40575388	Systematic Evaluation of Isolation Techniques and Freeze-Thaw Effects on Plasma Extracellular Vesicle Heterogeneity and Subpopulation Profiling. 	A systematic evaluation of isolation techniques and freeze-thaw effects on plasma extracellular vesicle heterogeneity and subpopulation profiling	EV isolation, Extracellular vesicles, plasma, small EVs	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are increasingly recognized as promising disease biomarkers and therapeutic carriers. However, standardizing blood-derived EV isolation remains challenging due to the heterogeneity of EV populations and variability among isolation techniques. In this study, we systematically evaluated three distinct EV isolation methods, including asymmetrical flow field-flow fractionation (AF4), size-exclusion chromatography (SEC) and automated centrifugal microfluidic disc system combined with functionalized membranes (Exo-CMDS), to compare their efficiency in isolating EVs from both freshly frozen and freeze-thawed plasma samples. We utilized an integrative approach combining Proximity-dependent Barcoding Assay (PBA) for single-EV surface protein profiling, Liquid Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) for bulk proteomic analysis, along with transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA) to assess EV yield, morphology, surface protein expression and subpopulation diversity. Our results revealed significant differences in three EV isolation methods. AF4 is particularly enriched for EV subpopulations expressing high levels of classical tetraspanins (e.g., CD81, CD9 and CD151), and single-pass membrane proteins (e.g., ITGA4 and ITAGB1). Exo-CMDS demonstrated the highest reproducibility across samples, isolating specific EV subpopulations enriched in markers like CD5. SEC provided the highest yield but co-isolated significant amounts of non-vesicular particles, including lipoproteins. The findings contribute valuable insights toward standardized and reliable EV isolation practices for research and clinical applications.
PXD051036	40575853	E3 Ubiquitin Ligase TRIM16-Mediated K63-linked Ubiquitination of DAB2 Enhances Integrin beta1 Endocytosis to Facilitate Vascular Calcification. 	LC-MS/MS identified the TRIM16-binding proteins	TRIM16	BACKGROUND: Vascular calcification is highly prevalent in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), and the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Several studies have indicated an important role of protein ubiquitination in vascular calcification. However, the role of E3 ubiquitin ligases in vascular calcification remains poorly understood. METHODS: Calcification of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) was induced by high phosphate. CKD mouse model was induced by an adenine diet, and CKD rat model was established using 5/6 nephrectomy method. Adenovirus, siRNA, adeno-associated virus, and smooth muscle cell-specific TRIM16 (tripartite motif 16) knockout mice were used to investigate the role of TRIM16 in vascular calcification. Immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry, and ubiquitination assay were used to dissect how TRIM16 regulates vascular calcification. RESULTS: Bioinformatic analysis suggested that E3 ubiquitin TRIM16 could be a key modulator of vascular calcification. TRIM16 expression was increased during vascular calcification. Overexpression of TRIM16 exacerbated VSMC calcification and aortic calcification of CKD rats. By contrast, the knockdown of TRIM16 alleviated VSMC calcification and aortic calcification in CKD rats. Moreover, the deletion of TRIM16 inhibited VSMC calcification and aortic calcification in VitD3-overloaded mice and CKD mice. Mechanistically, immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry revealed that DAB2 (disabled homolog 2) was the potential downstream target of TRIM16. Coimmunoprecipitation showed that the SPRY domain of TRIM16 interacted with the proline-rich domain of DAB2. Moreover, ubiquitination assay revealed that the SPRY domain of TRIM16 is required for TRIM16-mediated K63-linked ubiquitination of DAB2 at K656 residue. Of note, the knockdown of DAB2 inhibited TRIM16-induced VSMC calcification. Furthermore, knockdown of DAB2 antagonized endocytosis of integrin beta1 and subsequent activation of FAK (focal adhesion kinase)-STAT3 (signal transduction and transcriptional activation factor 3) signaling induced by overexpression of TRIM16. CONCLUSIONS: Our study for the first time demonstrates that E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM16 catalyzes K63-ubiquitination of the endocytic adaptor DAB2, leading to endocytosis of integrin beta1 and activation of FAK-STAT3 signaling, and subsequently exacerbates vascular calcification, suggesting that TRIM16-DAB2 axis is a promising therapeutic target for vascular calcification.
PXD057108	40576540	Arabidopsis thaliana Iron Superoxide Dismutase FeSOD1 Protects ARGONAUTE 1 in a Copper-Dependent Manner. 	Arabidopsis AGO1 interactome under Cu deficiency and Cu sufficiency	AGO1, Cu	Copper (Cu) deficiency compromises plant growth and limits crop productivity. Plants respond to Cu scarcity by activating the expression of several microRNAs, known as Cu-miRNAs, which degrade mRNAs from various cuproproteins to conserve Cu. Cu-miRNAs, like most plant miRNAs, associate with ARGONAUTE 1 (AGO1), the primary effector protein of miRNA-mediated gene silencing pathways, whose function is typically modulated by interacting proteins acting as cofactors. However, how AGO1 is regulated and functions under Cu deficiency remains unknown. Here, we searched for AGO1 interactors in Arabidopsis thaliana plants expressing a functional AGO1 protein tagged with the Twin-Strep-tag (TST) polypeptide, grown under Cu-sufficient or Cu-deficient conditions. TST-AGO1 complexes were affinity-purified, and proteins were identified using tandem mass spectrometry. Interestingly, the iron superoxide dismutase 1 (FeSOD1) encoded by FSD1, was enriched in TST-AGO1 complexes purified from plants grown under Cu deficiency. Moreover, fsd1-2 mutant plants showed reduced levels of AGO1 compared to wild-type plants under Cu sufficiency, while both Cu-miRNA-specific and general AGO1 target mRNAs accumulated to higher levels in fsd1-2 plants under both Cu-deficient and Cu-sufficient conditions compared to wild-type plants. These findings suggest that FeSOD1 is essential for proper AGO1 function, and that its superoxide dismutase activity, which mitigates oxidative stress, enhances AGO1 stability, particularly under Cu deficiency.
PXD059014	40577456	Sequestration of ribosome biogenesis factors in HSV-1 nuclear aggregates revealed by spatially resolved thermal profiling. 	Cytonuclear Fractionation TPCA in HSV-1 RF Infection	HSV-1, Subcellular Fractionation, TPCA	Viruses exploit host cell reliance on compartmentalization to facilitate their replication. Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) modulates the subcellular localization of host proteins to suppress immune activation, license viral gene expression, and achieve translational shutoff. To spatially resolve dynamic protein-protein interaction (PPI) networks during infection with an immunostimulatory HSV-1 strain, we integrated nuclear/cytoplasmic fractionation with thermal proximity coaggregation analysis (N/C-TPCA). The resulting expanded depth and spatial resolution of PPIs charted compartment-specific assemblies of protein complexes throughout infection. We find that a broader suite of host chaperones than previously anticipated exhibits nuclear recruitment to form condensates known as virus-induced chaperone-enriched (VICE) domains. Monitoring protein and RNA constituents and ribosome activity, we establish that VICE domains sequester ribosome biogenesis factors from ribosomal RNA, accompanying a cell-wide defect in ribosome supply. These findings highlight infection-driven VICE domains as nodes of translational remodeling and demonstrate the utility of N/C-TPCA to study dynamic biological contexts.
PXD055617	40578348	Interaction with AK2A links AIFM1 to cellular energy metabolism. 	Interaction with AK2 establishes AIFM1 as organizing platform in mitochondria	AIFM1, AK2, mitochondria	Apoptosis-inducing factor 1 (AIFM1) is a flavoprotein essential for mitochondrial function and biogenesis. Its interaction with MIA40/CHCHD4, the central component of the mitochondrial disulfide relay, accounts for some, but not all, aspects of AIFM1 function. We provide a high-confidence AIFM1 interactome that elucidates functional partners within the mitochondrial intermembrane space. We found that AIFM1 binding to adenylate kinase 2 (AK2), an essential enzyme that maintains cellular adenine nucleotide pools, depends on the AK2 C-terminal domain. High-resolution cryoelectron microscopy (cryo-EM) and biochemical analyses showed that both MIA40 and AK2A bind the AIFM1 C-terminal beta-sheet domain. Their binding enhances NADH oxidoreductase activity by locking an active dimer conformation and, in the case of MIA40, affecting the cofactor-binding site. The AIFM1-AK2A interaction is important during mitochondrial respiration because AIFM1 serves as a recruiting hub within the IMS, regulating mitochondrial bioenergetic output by creating hotspots of metabolic enzymes.
PXD055784	40581657	Integrated multi-omics analyses of synaptosomes revealed synapse-associated novel targets in Alzheimer's disease. 	Synapse-centered novel omics targets in Alzheimer's disease	Alzheimers, synaptosome	Synapse dysfunction is an early event in Alzheimer's disease (AD) caused by various factors, including amyloid beta, p-tau, inflammation, and aging. However, the precise molecular mechanism underlying synapse dysfunction in AD remains largely unknown. To understand this, we comprehensively analyzed the synaptosomes fraction in post-mortem brain samples from AD patients and cognitively normal individuals. We conducted high-throughput transcriptomic analyses to identify changes in microRNA (miRNA) and mRNA levels in synaptosomes extracted from the brains of unaffected individuals and those with AD. Additionally, we performed mass spectrometry analysis of synaptosomal proteins in the same sample group. These analyses revealed significant differences in the levels of miRNAs, mRNAs, and proteins between the two groups. To gain further insights into the pathways or molecules involved, we employed an integrated omics approach to study the molecular interactions of deregulated synapse miRNAs, mRNAs, and proteins in samples from individuals with AD and the control group, demonstrating the impact of deregulated miRNAs on their target mRNAs and proteins. Furthermore, the DIABLO analysis revealed complex relationships among mRNAs, miRNAs, and proteins that could be key in understanding the pathophysiology of AD. Our study identified novel synapse-associated candidates that could be critical in restoring synapse dysfunction in AD.
PXD060078	40581738	Insights into Plastocyanin-Cytochrome b6f Formation: The Role of Plastocyanin Phosphorylation. 	Chemical crosslinking of plastocyanin and the cytochrome b6f complex	Chlamzdomonas, Cytochrome b6f, EDC, Plastocyanin, crosslinking	Plastocyanin (PC) is a copper-containing protein that acts as a mobile electron carrier in plants during photosynthesis. In this work, we investigated the role of PC phosphorylation in photosynthetic electron transfer, focusing on interactions with both cytochrome-b6f (Cytb6f) and Photosystem-I (PSI) in Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. While the binding and electron transfer between PC and PSI are well characterized, the interaction between PC and Cytf remains less clear. Using chemical cross-linking combined with mass spectrometry, we identified two potential binding models for PC and Cytf: "Side-on" and "Head-on". To evaluate electron transfer, we developed an in vitro system that allowed oxidized PC, formed via light-driven electron transfer at PSI, to re-oxidize Cytf. Our data show that a phosphomimetic variant of PC, where phosphorylated PC S49 residue interacts with PetA-K188, displays faster Cytf oxidation, likely optimizing binding and electron transfer between PC and Cytf. Additionally, PC phosphomimetic variants exhibited slower transfer rates than the wild type, suggesting that phosphorylation also modulates PC's interaction with PSI. This regulation likely optimizes Cytf oxidation and electron transfer under conditions of low PC availability, such as during high light stress. Overall, PC phosphorylation appears to play a role in fine-tuning electron transfer between PSI, Cytb6f, and PC, thereby ensuring efficient photosynthesis in dynamic environmental conditions.
PXD056064	40583194	CIAA: Integrated Proteomics and Structural Modeling for Understanding Cysteine Reactivity with Iodoacetamide Alkyne. 	CIAA: Integrated Proteomics and Structural Modeling for Understanding Cysteine Reactivity with Iodoacetamide Alkyne	chemoproteomics, cysteine, isoTOP-ABPP, reactivity	Cysteine residues play key roles in protein structure and function and can serve as targets for chemical probes and even drugs. Chemoproteomic studies have revealed that heightened cysteine reactivity toward electrophilic probes, such as iodoacetamide alkyne (IAA), is indicative of likely residue functionality. However, while the cysteine coverage of chemoproteomic studies has increased substantially, these methods still provide only a partial assessment of proteome-wide cysteine reactivity, with cysteines from low-abundance proteins and tough-to-detect peptides still largely refractory to chemoproteomic analysis. Here, we integrate cysteine chemoproteomic reactivity data sets with structure-guided computational analysis to delineate key structural features of proteins that favor elevated cysteine reactivity toward IAA. We first generated and aggregated multiple descriptors of cysteine microenvironment, including amino acid content, solvent accessibility, residue proximity, secondary structure, and predicted pKa. We find that no single feature is sufficient to accurately predict the reactivity. Therefore, we developed the CIAA (Cysteine reactivity toward IodoAcetamide Alkyne) method, which utilizes a Random Forest model to assess cysteine reactivity by incorporating descriptors that characterize the three-dimensional (3D) structural properties of thiol microenvironments. We trained the CIAA model on existing and newly generated cysteine chemoproteomic reactivity data paired with high-resolution crystal structures from the Protein Data Bank (PDB), with cross-validation against an external data set. CIAA analysis reveals key features driving cysteine reactivity, such as backbone hydrogen bond donor atoms, and reveals still underserved needs in the area of computational predictions of cysteine reactivity, including challenges surrounding protein structure selection data set curation. Thus, our work provides a strong foundation for deploying artificial intelligence (AI) on cysteine chemoproteomic data sets.
PXD061040	40584708	Comprehensive proteomic profiling of intestinal tissues in patients with ulcerative colitis. 	Label-Free Quantitative Proteomics Study of Formalin-Fixed, Paraffin-Embedded (FFPE) Tissues in Chinese Ulcerative Colitis Patients	ulcerative colitis,FFPE,label free quantification	Introduction: Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease characterized by persistent inflammation of the colonic mucosa. This condition can significantly affect the quality of life of those affected. While UC is common, its underlying mechanisms are not yet fully understood, highlighting the need for a comprehensive proteomic analysis of intestinal tissues to identify potential biological changes associated with the disease. This study aimed to investigate the proteomic differences in the intestinal tissues of patients with UC and healthy individuals using high-throughput liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) and bioinformatics methods. Methods: The study employed a comprehensive proteomic analysis using LC-MS/MS to identify protein expression differences in intestinal tissues from five patients with UC versus five healthy controls. Subsequent bioinformatics analyses, including Gene Ontology (GO) and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway analyses, elucidated altered biological processes. Results: We identified 194 upregulated and 323 downregulated proteins in the tissues of patients with UC, indicating a significant difference in protein expression. GO analysis revealed that the upregulated proteins were mainly involved in immune responses and metabolic processes, while the downregulated proteins were associated with organic and cellular metabolism. Additionally, KEGG pathway analysis showed that upregulated proteins were enriched in pathways related to ribosomes and phagosomes, whereas downregulated proteins were primarily linked to oxidative phosphorylation, thermogenesis, and the citric acid cycle, pointing to substantial changes in cellular energy metabolism. Protein-protein interaction (PPI) network analysis identified several key nodes, particularly those connected to ribosomal and phagocytic functions, which may play significant roles in the pathophysiology of UC. Conclusion: This study offers new insights into the biological mechanisms underlying UC and lays the foundation for future therapeutic strategies targeting these proteomic changes. Further experimental validation and clinical investigations are necessary to uncover additional mechanisms of UC and to facilitate the development of effective treatments.
PXD055756	40585902	Assessing Native Liver Post-Kasai Portoenterostomy for Biliary Atresia Through Stool Proteome Analysis. 	Assessing Native-Liver Post-Kasai Portoenterostomy for biliary atresia through Stool Proteome Analysis	DIA-MS, Kasai portoenterostomy, biliary atresia, feces, tool	Background and Aims: Biliary atresia (BA) is a severe neonatal condition, characterized by jaundice and hyperbilirubinemia, resulting in cholestasis. Although early diagnosis followed by Kasai portoenterostomy (KPE) can rescue patients, they are prone to complications such as cholangitis. Moreover, a comprehensive study assessing intestinal environment is currently lacking. Therefore, in this study, we aimed to elucidate the stool protein profiles of patients with BA following KPE, provide insights into the native liver condition of BA, and open new avenues for clinical approaches through stool proteome analysis. Methods: In this prospective study, stool proteome analysis was conducted on samples from 4 patients with well-controlled conditions, 4 patients with repeated cholangitis, and 3 patients with prolonged jaundice without cholangitis, all of whom had undergone KPE. Fifteen healthy individuals without BA were included for comparison. Results: Principal component analysis revealed that the stool profiles of patients post-KPE with favorable outcomes closely resembled those of healthy controls, whereas the profiles of patients with unfavorable outcomes showed distinct patterns. Notably, C-reactive protein levels were elevated, whereas sodium/hydrogen exchanger 3 levels were decreased in the group with repeated cholangitis. Conclusion: This study highlights distinct differences in stool protein profiles following KPE, particularly in patients with poor clinical outcomes. This suggests that stool proteome analysis has the potential to provide insights into the native liver conditions of BA patients post-KPE, reflecting their clinical status.
PXD064959	40587794	Identification of a VPS29 isoform with restricted association to Retriever and Retromer accessory proteins through autoinhibition. 	Identification of a VPS29 isoform with restricted association to Retriever and Retromer accessory proteins through autoinhibition	Commander, Retriever, Retromer, endosomes, lysosomes	The endosomal-lysosomal network is a hub of organelles that orchestrate the dynamic sorting of hundreds of integral membrane proteins to maintain cellular homeostasis. VPS29 is a central conductor of this network through its assembly into Retromer, Retriever, and Commander endosomal sorting complexes, and its role in regulating RAB GTPase activity. Two VPS29 isoforms have been described, VPS29A and VPS29B, that differ solely in their amino-terminal sequences. Here, we identify a third VPS29 isoform, which we term VPS29C, that harbors an extended amino-terminal sequence compared to VPS29A and VPS29B. Through a combination of AlphaFold predictive modeling, in vitro complex reconstitution, mass spectrometry, and molecular cell biology, we find that the amino-terminal VPS29C extension constitutes an autoinhibitory sequence that limits access to a hydrophobic groove necessary for effector protein recruitment to Retromer, and association with Retriever and Commander. VPS29C is therefore unique in its ability to uncouple Retromer-dependent cargo sorting from the broader roles of VPS29A and VPS29B in regulating the endosomal-lysosomal network through accessory protein recruitment. Our identification and characterization of VPS29C points to additional complexity in the differential subunit assembly of Retromer, an important consideration given the increasing interest in Retromer as a potential therapeutic target in neurodegenerative diseases.
PXD063068	40588566	Characterization of E1 enzyme dependencies in mutant-UBA1 human cells reveals UBA6 as a novel therapeutic target in VEXAS syndrome. 	Dysregulation of protein homeostasis by mutant UBA1 in VEXAS syndrome	UBA1, VEXAS	VEXAS syndrome is a clonal hematopoietic disorder characterized by hyperinflammation, bone marrow failure, and high mortality. The molecular hallmark of VEXAS is somatic mutations at methionine 41 (M41) in the E1 ubiquitin enzyme, UBA1. These mutations induce a protein isoform switch, but the mechanisms underlying disease pathogenesis remain unclear. Here, we developed a human cell model of VEXAS syndrome by engineering the male monocytic THP1 cell line to express the common UBA1(M41V) mutation. We found that mutant UBA1(M41V) cells exhibit aberrant UBA1 isoform expression, increased vacuolization, and upregulation of the unfolded protein response, recapitulating key features of VEXAS. Moreover, proteomic analyses revealed dysregulated ubiquitination and proteotoxic stress in UBA1(M41V) cells, with alterations in inflammatory and stress-response pathways. Functional studies demonstrated that UBA1(M41V) cells were highly sensitive to genetic or pharmacological inhibition of E1 ubiquitin enzymes. Treatment with the E1 enzyme inhibitor TAK-243 preferentially suppressed colony formation of UBA1(M41V) cells as compared to WT cells. Moreover, UBA1(M41V) cells exhibited greater sensitivity to TAK-243 in competition assays and showed increased apoptosis. Interestingly, TAK-243 preferentially inhibited UBA6 activity over UBA1, suggesting that UBA6 may compensate for UBA1 dysfunction in UBA1(M41V) cells. Targeting UBA6 using shRNA or the UBA6-specific inhibitor phytic acid further revealed an acquired dependency on UBA6 in UBA1(M41V) cells. Phytic acid selectively impaired growth and colony formation in UBA1(M41V) cells while sparing WT cells, highlighting a potential therapeutic vulnerability. Together, these findings establish a novel human model of VEXAS syndrome, identify key roles for UBA1 and UBA6 in disease pathogenesis, and demonstrate that UBA6 inhibition represents a promising therapeutic strategy for selectively targeting UBA1 mutant clones.
PXD063552	40589518	Altered metabolomics and inflammatory transcriptomics in human bone marrow adipocytes after acute high calorie diet and acute fasting. 	Altered Metabolomics and Inflammatory Transcriptomics in Human Bone Marrow Adipocytes After Acute High Calorie Diet and Acute Fasting	Biology/Disease-Driven Human Proteome Project (B/D-HPP), Food and Nutrition (B/D-HPP), Human Proteome Project, ProteomeXchange project tag: Cardiovascular (B/D-HPP), acute fasting, acute high calorie diet, bone marrow serum, peri	Expansion of bone marrow (BM) adipocytes has been linked to nutritional pressures, suggesting that BM is a dynamic compartment that responds to fluctuations in systemic nutritional availability to regulate osteogenesis and hematopoiesis. Here, we investigated BM metabolism in response to acute overnutrition (high calorie diet; HCD) and calorie deprivation (fasting). Participants underwent a 10-day HCD followed by a two-week interval of an ad libitum diet and then underwent 10 days of fasting. BM adipocytes and sera were collected before and after each dietary intervention for each participant. Using comprehensive and integrated analyses, we characterized nutritional influences on BM adiposity. BM adipocytes after HCD showed an upregulation of FOXP3, the transcription factor that controls the development of Tregs, which are critical in reducing inflammatory immune responses. After fasting, BM adipocytes had an upregulation of inflammatory genes (CP, CFH, VCAN, and IGFBP3). Proteomic analysis after HCD showed that BM serum had an upregulation of proteins related to an inflammatory/complement pathway. After fasting, in the BM serum, there was a significant downregulation of inflammatory/complement pathway proteins. Despite both interventions causing BM adipose tissue expansion, the mechanism for adipogenesis appears to be dependent on nutrient availability. After HCD, lipid-mediated signaling and lipid storage, and lipid droplet biogenesis were significantly downregulated. In contrast, after fasting, lipid-mediated signaling and lipid storage, and lipid droplet biogenesis were significantly upregulated. Overall, our results demonstrate key differences in inflammatory response and lipid metabolism between HCD and fasting, despite a nearly identical BM adipose phenotype. Further analyses are needed to understand the effects nutritional pressures have on BM adipogenesis and immune responses.
PXD062008	40590126	CEMIP Maintains Vascular Contractility by Controlling PP1c-MLC20 Cascade in SMCs. 	SMC-CemipKO aortic media immunoprecipitated with anti-MLC20 antibodies for proteomic	IP proteomic analysis	BACKGROUND: The CEMIP (cell migration-inducing protein) exhibits extremely high expression levels in smooth muscle tissues. However, whether CEMIP modulates the contractile phenotype of vascular smooth muscle cells and confers blood pressure remains elusive. METHODS: To explore the role of CEMIP in SMCs, we generated a mouse model with SMC-specific CEMIP deficiency (SMC-CemipKO). By combining coimmunoprecipitation assay and molecular docking prediction, we identified MLC20 (myosin light chain 20) and its phosphatase, PP1c (protein phosphatase 1c) as binding proteins for CEMIP. To elucidate the mechanism by which CEMIP interacts with MLC20 and PP1c, bioluminescence resonance energy transfer assay and motif mutation were utilized to unravel the intricate network. RESULTS: CEMIP is abundantly expressed in smooth muscle tissues including the mesenteric artery, aorta, and intestine. In a serum-starved contractile phenotype, SMCs responded to serum stimulation by gradually decreasing CEMIP expression, as they shifted to a secretory phenotype. The mice lacking CEMIP in SMCs showed significantly reduced contractility and blood pressure compared with their counterparts of age-matched wild-type littermates (Cemipflox/flox). Mechanistically, we demonstrated that CEMIP directly interacted with MLC20 to maintain its phosphorylation. In addition, CEMIP sequestered MLC20 from its phosphatase, PP1c, without affecting the kinase MLCK (myosin light chain kinase). Moreover, CEMIP contains 3 critical RVxF motifs that are responsible for binding to PP1c. Mutations in these motifs restored the interaction between PP1c and MLC20. CONCLUSIONS: CEMIP functions as a gatekeeper for maintaining the contractile phenotype of SMCs via the PP1c-MLC20 cascade. CEMIP is indispensable for maintaining blood pressure.
PXD059271	40590658	Imaging-Based High-Content Screening with Clickable Probes Identifies XPB Inhibitors. 	Development of A Image-based High-content Screening Assay Based on Clickable Probes for Identification of XPB Inhibitors	Click Chemistry, High-content Screening, XPB	High-content screening (HCS) has become a powerful tool in drug discovery; however, its reliance on indirect readouts and surrogate markers limits HCS's ability to directly assess drug-protein interactions at endogenous levels, particularly in subcellular contexts. Here, we report an approach to address these limitations by combining confocal imaging-based HCS and bio-orthogonal labeling with clickable probes. As a proof-of-concept, we synthesized a probe TL-alkyne (TL-alk) that rapidly and specifically labels xeroderma pigmentosum type B (XPB), a critical protein in nucleotide excision repair (NER). Probe-labeled XPB was conjugated to TAMRA to visualize the occupation of active sites, and EGFP and DAPI signals indicated the XPB expression in the nucleus. Such a colorimetric HCS assay enabled the direct and precise measurement of drug occupancy rates in nuclear XPB of live cells. With this platform, pelitinib was identified as a novel ligand to bind XPB out of 1,874 FDA-approved drugs. Pelitinib formed a covalent bond with Cys342 of XPB, suppressed XPB's ATPase activity, impaired NER, and synergistically enhanced chemotherapy. This study not only overcomes limitations of HCS, but also demonstrates the transformative potential of bio-orthogonal labeling, such as in integration with HCS technologies, offering a novel framework for drug discovery targeting challenging protein systems.
PXD062196	40590931	Functional proteomic analysis of Streptomyces sp. F-3 reveals its potential to effectively degrade waste-yeast. 	The proteomics of  Streptomyces sp. F-3 on different carbon sources	Functional proteomic analysis, Proteases, Streptomyces sp. F-3, Substrate preference, Waste-yeast	Streptomyces are renowned in pharmaceutical and medical fields for their ability to produce antibiotics and other bioactive secondary metabolites. In order to reduce industrial production costs, it is crucial to find suitable and cheaper raw materials as carbon and nitrogen sources for microbial growth processes. This study investigated the substrate preference of Streptomyces sp. F-3 using functional proteomic analysis. Streptomyces sp. F-3 exhibited varying degradation and utilization rates for different nitrogen source. The results indicated that the strain F-3 could not efficiently degrade intact globular proteins, but preferred to degrade peptone or protein hydrolysate, especially for waste-yeast. The strain F-3 could utilize waste-yeast to grow rapidly and produced a large amount of extracellular protein. The substrate-binding patterns of three S8 proteases secreted by Streptomyces sp. F-3 determined the nitrogen source degradation preference of the strain. In addition, the strain F-3 could secrete large amounts of beta-glucanase and chitinase to utilize cell wall polysaccharides. Thus, waste-yeast, rich in peptone, beta-glucan, and chitin, could be the superior substrate for culturing Streptomyces. This study not only broadens the application scenarios for waste-yeast, but also provides valuable insights for rapid and cost-effective industrial microbial cultivation. KEY POINTS: The substrate preference of Streptomyces sp. F-3 was analyzed by integrative omics. Structural omics revealed the hydrolysis specificity of S8 proteases from F-3. Waste-yeast served as the superior substrate for culturing Streptomyces.
PXD048316	40592324	Co-development of mesoderm and endoderm enables organotypic vascularization in lung and gut organoids. 	Identify the protein contents within the fluids secreted by transplanted human vascularized lung organoid	Organoid, lung, transplantation, vasculature	The vasculature and mesenchyme exhibit distinct organ-specific characteristics adapted to local physiological needs, shaped by microenvironmental and cell-cell interactions from early development. To recapitulate this entire process, we co-differentiated mesoderm and endoderm within the same spheroid to vascularize lung and intestinal organoids from induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs). Bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling fine-tuned the endoderm-to-mesoderm ratio, a critical step in generating appropriate proportions of endothelial and epithelial progenitors with tissue specificity. Single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) revealed organ-specific gene signatures of endothelium and mesenchyme and identified key ligands driving endothelial specification. The endothelium exhibited tissue-specific barrier function, enhanced organoid maturation, cellular diversity, and alveolar formation on the engineered lung scaffold. Upon transplantation into mice, the organoid vasculature integrated with the host circulation while preserving organ specificity, further promoting organoid maturation. Leveraging these vascularized organoids, we uncovered abnormal endothelial-epithelial crosstalk in patients with forkhead box F1 (FOXF1) mutations. Multilineage organoids provide an advanced platform to study intricate cell-to-cell communications in human organogenesis and disease.
PXD055043	40592826	New molecular components of high and low affinity iron import systems in Drosophila. 	Identifying Interacting Proteins of Hsp22 and Hsp70 Under Iron-Depleted and Repleted Conditions	BPS, FAC, Hsp22, Hsp70, Ring gland, ferritin, iron, prothoracic gland	The high abundance and molecular versatility of iron have led to its universal presence in biological systems, yet its absorption is exceptionally challenging. Animals and yeasts use divalent metal transporters to import iron, but yeasts also employ the multicopper oxidase Fet3p for high-affinity iron uptake when iron-starved. Using long-term iron depletion in Drosophila, we identified four components involved in iron absorption: Multicopper oxidase-4 (Mco4), a Fet3p ortholog, is essential for surviving iron starvation, whereas the cytochrome b561 enzymes Fire (Ferric Iron Reductase) and Fire-like, as well as cytochrome b5 protein Firewood, are required for iron absorption under normal conditions. This study reports the presence of a high-affinity iron uptake system in an animal, a cytochrome b5 electron donor for ferric iron reduction, and intestinal ferric reductases, and provides a valuable resource for further exploration of genes involved in iron homeostasis, transport, and absorption.
PXD064237	40592880	CryoEM structure of the SLFN14 endoribonuclease reveals insight into RNA binding and cleavage. 	Protein identification of recombinant SLFN11 and SLFN14	SLFN11, SLFN14, Schlafen	The SLFN14 endoribonuclease is a post-transcriptional regulator that targets the ribosome and its associated RNA substrates for codon-bias translational repression. SLFN14 nuclease activity is linked to antiviral defense and platelet function. Despite its prominent role in gene regulation, the molecular signals regulating SLFN14 substrate recognition and catalytic activation remain unclear. SLFN14 dysregulation is linked to human diseases, including ribosomopathies and inherited thrombocytopenia, thus underscoring the importance of establishing the signals coordinating its RNA processing activity. Here, we reconstitute active full-length human SLFN14 and report a high-resolution cryoEM reconstruction of the SLFN14*RNA complex. The structure reveals a medallion-like architecture that shares structural homology with other SLFN family members. We unveil a C-terminal hydrophobic intermolecular interface that stabilizes the SLFN14 homodimer without the need for additional molecular signals. We describe compact sequence-independent RNA binding interfaces and highlight the environment of the SLFN14 disease hotspot at the RNA cleft entrance. We show that the SLFN14 endoribonuclease has broad site-specificity in the absence of modified native tRNA, a characteristic not shared with its SLFN11 family member. Finally, we demonstrate that metal-dependent acceptor stem cleavage requires the SLFN14 E-EhK motif and uncover its unexpected parallel with other virus-activatable nucleases.
PXD056955	40593482	Thio-NHS esters are non-innocent protein acylating reagents. 	NHS esters are non-innocent protein acylating reagents	N-succinamide derivatives, NHS esters, ring-opening	N-Hydroxysuccinimide (NHS)-ester derivatives are widely used reagents in biological chemistry and chemical biology. Their efficacy relies critically on the exclusive chemoselectivity of activated acyl over that of the imidic acyl moieties in the succinimide. Here, through systematic structural variation that modulates acyl reactivity, coupled with a statistically controlled ultra-rapid screen for unknown modifications in tandem mass spectra as well as lysine profiling across complex lysine environments, including those within proteomes containing many thousands of proteins, we reveal that ring-opening to afford N-succinamide derivatives is a present, sometimes dominant, side-reaction. The extent of side-reaction is shown to be site-dependent, with side-reaction and desired reaction occurring within the same protein substrate. The resulting formation of bioconjugates with unintended, unstable linkages and modifications suggests the re-evaluation of: (i) known commercial reagents; and (ii) functional conclusions previously drawn using NHS esters in areas as diverse as antibody-drug biotherapy, vaccination and cross-link-enabled structural analyses.
PXD061436	40593524	Ultradeep N-glycoproteome atlas of mouse reveals spatiotemporal signatures of brain aging and neurodegenerative diseases. 	Ultradeep N-glycoproteome Atlas of Mouse Reveals Spatiotemporal Signatures of Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative Diseases	Database, Glycoproteomics, Site-specific Glycopeptides	The current depth of site-specific N-glycoproteomics is insufficient to fully characterize glycosylation events in biological samples. Herein, we achieve an ultradeep and precision analysis of the N-glycoproteome of mouse tissues by integrating multiple workflows. The largest N-glycoproteomic dataset to date is established on mice, which contains 91,972 precursor glycopeptides, 62,216 glycoforms, 8939 glycosites and 4563 glycoproteins. The database consists of 6.8 million glyco-spectra (containing oxonium ions), among which 160,928 spectra is high-quality with confident N-glycopeptide identifications. The large-scale and high-quality dataset enhances the performance of current artificial intelligence models for glycopeptide tandem spectrum prediction. Using this ultradeep dataset, we observe tissue specific microheterogeneity and functional implications of protein glycosylation in mice. Furthermore, the region-resolved brain N-glycoproteomes for Alzheimer's Diseases, Parkinson Disease and aging mice reveal the spatiotemporal signatures and distinct pathological functions of the N-glycoproteins. A comprehensive database resource of experimental N-glycoproteomic data from this study and previous literatures is further established. This N-glycoproteome atlas serves as a promising tool for revealing the role of protein glycosylation in biological systems.
PXD059525	40593547	cTAGE5 is essential for adipogenesis and adipose tissue development. 	cTAGE5 is essential for adipogenesis and adipose tissue development	adipocyte differentiation, adipocyte precursor cells, adipogenesis, cTAGE5	White adipocytes serve as primary energy reservoirs and their malfunction is linked to different metabolic disorders, yet the mechanisms underlying cellular specialization, a critical step during adipogenesis remain unknown. Here, we reveal the indispensable role of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma-associated antigen 5 (cTAGE5) in adipocyte differentiation and maturation. Conditional deletion of cTAGE5 in adipocyte precursor cells (APCs), rather than mature adipocytes, results in progressive loss of white adipose tissue and death of mice. Mechanistically, cTAGE5 deficiency in APCs disturbs pro-insulin receptor (IR) processing and impairs insulin signaling, accompanied by significant down-regulation of actin cytoskeleton related genes and defect in cytoskeleton remodeling, alongside enhanced expression of proteins associated with lipid catabolic process and lipolysis in adipocytes. Importantly, inhibitors targeting actin polymerization and lipolysis effectively restore adipocyte differentiation capacity in cTAGE5-deficient APCs. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that cTAGE5 plays pivotal roles in adipogenesis and adipose tissue development.
PXD063709	40593574	Lysosome-mediated aggregation of galactose-deficient IgA1 with transferrin receptor 1 links to IgA nephropathy. 	LC-MS/MS analysis of Gd-IgA1 and secretary TfR1 cross-linked complex	IgA nephropathy, galactose-deficient IgA1, transferrin receptor	The retention of galactose-deficient IgA1 (Gd-IgA1) in the mesangium is central to IgA nephropathy (IgAN), but its intracellular fate remains unclear. Here, we show that transferrin receptor 1 (TfR1) mediates Gd-IgA1 uptake into mesangial cell lysosomes, where it forms non-digestible aggregates, disrupts lysosomal function, and triggers inflammatory responses. In renal biopsies from IgAN patients, IgA1 aggregates co-localize with TfR1 within lysosomes. In male mice, TfR1 overexpression enhanced lysosomal accumulation of Gd-IgA1, whereas TfR1 knockdown reduced it. Mechanistically, acidic pH strengthens TfR1-Gd-IgA1 binding via the galactose-deficient hinge region and residue R276. While we acknowledge that sialylation commonly found in patient-derived IgA1 might influence TfR1 binding and that other receptors, such as ASGPR, were not evaluated, our findings nonetheless reveal a lysosome-centered mechanism in IgAN and highlight receptor-mediated retention of Gd-IgA1 as a potential therapeutic target.
PXD061110	40593606	CFAP100 couples microtubule glutamylation to spindle pole integrity in keratinocytes to promote epidermal development. 	IP-mass spec  GFP and GFP-CFAP100	CFAP100 interatction proteins	Despite the importance of keratinocytes in epidermal structure and function, the molecular mechanisms regulating the division of these cells remain poorly understood. Herein, we demonstrate an essential role for cilia and flagella associated protein 100 (CFAP100) in keratinocyte division. Cfap100-knockout mice display a thinner and transparent skin and an impaired epidermal barrier function. Depletion of CFAP100 in keratinocytes prolongs mitotic progression and compromises chromosome segregation. Molecular studies reveal that CFAP100 interacts with tubulin tyrosine ligase-like protein 13 (TTLL13) to maintain spindle pole integrity in dividing keratinocytes. Further analysis shows that CFAP100 recruits TTLL13 to the spindle pole to increase the glutamylation of spindle microtubules. Restoring microtubule glutamylation by overexpression of TTLL13 or depletion of cytosolic carboxypeptidase 5 remarkably rescues the spindle pole defects in CFAP100-depleted cells. These findings thus identify CFAP100 as a central link to couple microtubule glutamylation to spindle pole integrity in keratinocytes to promote epidermal development.
PXD052216	40593619	Mitophagy mitigates mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation deficient cardiomyopathy. 	Mitophagy Mitigates Mitochondrial Fatty Acid beta-oxidation Deficient Cardiomyopathy	Cardiomyopathy, Mitophagy, PINK1, Parkin, USP30, fatty acid beta-oxidation, mitochondrial	The healthy heart relies on mitochondrial fatty acid beta-oxidation (FAO) to sustain its high energy demands. FAO deficiencies can cause muscle weakness, cardiomyopathy, and, in severe cases, neonatal/infantile mortality. Although FAO deficits are thought to induce mitochondrial stress and activate mitophagy, a quality control mechanism that eliminates damaged mitochondria, the mechanistic link in the heart remains unclear. Here we show that mitophagy is unexpectedly suppressed in FAO-deficient hearts despite pronounced mitochondrial stress, using a cardiomyocyte-specific carnitine palmitoyltransferase 2 (CPT2) knockout model. Multi-omics profiling reveals impaired PINK1/Parkin signaling and dysregulation of PARL, a mitochondrial protease essential for PINK1 processing. Strikingly, deletion of USP30, a mitochondrial deubiquitinase that antagonizes PINK1/Parkin function, restores mitophagy, improves cardiac function, and significantly extends survival in FAO-deficient animals. These findings redefine the mitophagy response in FAO-deficient hearts and establish USP30 as a promising therapeutic target for metabolic cardiomyopathies and broader heart failure characterized by impaired FAO.
PXD053379	40593625	MORC2 is a phosphorylation-dependent DNA compaction machine. 	MORC2 phosphorylation fine tunes its DNA compaction activity	ATPase, Chromatin remodeling, Crosslinking MS, Cryo-EM, Epigenetics, FFS, FLIM-FRET, HDX-MS, MORC2, Single molecule	The Microrchidia (MORC) family of chromatin-remodelling ATPases is pivotal in forming higher-order chromatin structures that suppress transcription. The exact mechanisms of MORC-induced chromatin remodelling have been elusive. Here, we report an in vitro reconstitution of full-length MORC2, the most commonly mutated MORC member, linked to various cancers and neurological disorders. MORC2 possesses multiple DNA-binding sites that undergo structural rearrangement upon DNA binding. MORC2 locks onto the DNA using its C-terminal domain (CTD) and acts as a clamp. A conserved phosphate-interacting motif within the CTD was found to regulate ATP hydrolysis and cooperative DNA binding. Importantly, MORC2 mediates chromatin remodelling via ATP hydrolysis-dependent DNA compaction in vitro, regulated by the phosphorylation state of its CTD. These findings position MORC2 CTD phosphorylation as a critical regulator of chromatin remodelling and a promising therapeutic target.
PXD057805	40593673	Decoding polyubiquitin regulation of KV7. 1 (KCNQ1) surface expression with engineered linkage-selective deubiquitinases. 	Digly analysis of human Kv7.1 transfected in HEK293 cells.	ITCH, Kv7.1ion channel, NEDD4L, polyubiquitin, protein degradation, ubiquitin code	Polyubiquitin chain diversity generates a 'ubiquitin code' that universally regulates protein abundance, localization, and function. Functions of polyubiquitin diversity are mostly unknown, with lack of progress due to an inability to selectively tune protein polyubiquitin linkages in live cells. We develop linkage-selective engineered deubiquitinases (enDUBs) by fusing linkage-selective DUB catalytic domains to GFP-targeted nanobody and use them to investigate polyubiquitin linkage regulation of an ion channel, YFP-KCNQ1. YFP-KCNQ1 in HEK293 cells has polyubiquitin chains with K48/K63 linkages dominant. EnDUBs yield unique effects on channel surface abundance with a pattern indicating: K11 promotes ER retention/degradation, enhances endocytosis, and reduces recycling; K29/K33 promotes ER retention/degradation; K63 enhances endocytosis and reduces recycling; and K48 is necessary for forward trafficking. EnDUB effects differ in cardiomyocytes and on KCNQ1 disease mutants, emphasizing ubiquitin code mutability. The results reveal distinct polyubiquitin chains control different aspects of KCNQ1 abundance and subcellular localization and introduce linkage-selective enDUBs as potent tools to demystify the polyubiquitin code.
PXD059132	40593698	Fast growth and high-titer bioproduction from renewable formate via metal-dependent formate dehydrogenase in Escherichia coli. 	A Metal-Dependant Formate Dehydrogenase Advances the Formate Bio-economy	Formate dehydrogenase, JBEI, bioproducion, formate, isoprenol, mevalonate, reductive glycine pathway	Microbial bioproduction using one-carbon (C1) feedstocks has the potential to decarbonize the manufacturing of materials, fuels, and chemicals. Formate is a promising C1 feedstock, and the realization of industrial, formatotrophic platform organisms is a key goal for C1-based bioproduction. So far, a major limitation for synthetic formatotrophy has been slow energy supply due to slow formate dehydrogenase activity. Here, we implement a fast, metal-dependent formate dehydrogenase complex in a synthetic formatotrophic Escherichia coli utilizing the reductive glycine pathway. After a short-term evolution, we demonstrate formatotrophic growth of E. coli with a doubling time of less than 4.5 h, comparable to the fastest natural formatotrophs. To further explore the potential of a formate-based bioeconomy, this strain is engineered to produce mevalonate, as well as the terpenoid and aviation fuel precursor isoprenol, using formate we generate directly from the electrochemical reduction of CO2. This work demonstrates an improvement in bioproduct titer from formate, achieving the production of 3.8 g/L of mevalonate. Additionally, the abundant and recalcitrant polymer lignin is chemically decomposed into a formate-rich mixture of small organic acids and subsequently bioconverted into mevalonate. Overall, the described fast-growing, formatotrophic bioproduction strain demonstrates that a sustainable formate bioeconomy is within reach.
PXD055940	40594195	Effect of enhanced early life nutrition on the molecular regulation of anterior pituitary function in Holstein Friesian bull calves. 	Proteomic profiling of anterior pituitary of bull calves offered either a high or moderate plane of nutrition in early life	Bovine, Nutrition, Piturtary	Enhanced early-life nutrition is known to induce precocious reproductive development in the bull calf, mediated through gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH) stimulated gonadotropin pulsatility in the anterior pituitary gland. The objective of this study was to evaluate transcriptomic and proteomic responses within the anterior pituitary of Holstein-Friesian bull calves offered different planes of nutrition during early life. Bull calves were offered either a high (HI; n = 15) or moderate (MOD; n = 15) plane of nutrition between 2-12 weeks of age and subsequently euthanised at 12 weeks of age. The anterior pituitary tissue was harvested from all calves and miRNAseq, mRNAseq and proteomic analyses undertaken. High diet calves displayed greater growth rates compared to MOD calves (P < 0.001). Overall, 37 mRNAs and 5 miRNAs were differentially expressed between treatment groups (FDR < 0.1). Reduced expression of miR-205 together with greater expression of specific target mRNA genes (PCSK1, SERPINA1, CARTPT) in the HI calves suggested a relationship between these mRNA and miRNA. Furthermore, co-regulatory network analysis of the proteomic data revealed interactions between PCSK1, SERPINA1 and CARTPT, and proteins involved in cellular proliferation, metabolism and GnRH signalling, highlighting a role for these proteins in mediating the intersection between enhanced metabolic status with reproductive signalling in young bull calves.
PXD057098	40594855	Identification of spastic ataxia-related proteins via comparative proteomic analysis of the cerebellum of conditional Ankfy1 knockout mice. 	Identification of spastic ataxia-related proteins via comparative proteomic analysis of the cerebellum of conditional Ankfy1 knockout mice	Ankfy1, Purkinje cell, data-independent acquisition, spastic ataxia	Ankyrin repeat and FYVE domain containing 1 (ANKFY1) is an indispensable protein in the development of cerebellar Purkinje cells. Our preliminary study revealed that its absence caused progressive spastic ataxia, accompanied by the loss of Purkinje cells in mice. Here, we generated Ankfy1-floxed (Ankfy1(f/f)) mice, in which conditional inactivation of the Ankfy1 gene was achieved specifically in cerebellar Purkinje cells via crossing with a transgenic mouse strain expressing Cre recombinase under the regulatory control of the Purkinje cell protein 2 (PCP2) promoter. We employed data-independent acquisition (DIA) mass spectrometry to compare the protein expression profiles in cerebellar samples. The samples were obtained from two groups of male mice. The first group consisted of three Pcp2-Cre; Ankfy1(f/f) male mice, where the Ankfy1 gene was conditionally knocked out in Purkinje cells, and these mice were designated as the conditional knockout (CKO) group. The second group included three Cre-negative; Ankfy1(f/f) littermate male mice served as the wild-type (WT) control group. The results identified 69 (45 upregulated and 24 downregulated) differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) in CKO vs. WT male mice with a 1.5-fold change. Enrichment analyses of these DEPs based on the Gene Ontology (GO), Orthologous Groups of Proteins (COG), and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) databases revealed functional clusters associated with neuronal cell morphogenesis, extracellular structures, regulation of Rho-GTPase, calcium signaling pathway, etc. Itgb2, which was upregulated in CKO mice, was the top hub gene according to protein-protein interaction (PPI) analysis. We selected seven interesting differentially expressed genes (Arhgdib, Impa2, Pcp2, Pcp4, Ppp1r17, Rhobtb2, and Cdc123) for further validation. Arhgdib and Imp2a expression was increased in the cerebellum of CKO male and female mice, and Pcp2 and Pcp4 expression was decreased. Western blotting and immunofluorescence verified the upregulation of ARHGDIB and the downregulation of PCP2 in the cerebellum. Our proteomic analysis of conditional Ankfy1 knockout mice may guide future research to help develop treatments for progressive spastic ataxia.
PXD061779	40595453	Targeting lipid raft-related stomatin to ameliorate osteoporosis in preclinical models. 	Targeting Lipid raft-related stomatin strategy for challenging osteoporosis	stomatin	Osteoporosis is a metabolic bone disease characterized by a disruption in the balance between bone resorption and formation. The specific role and mechanism of stomatin (STOM), a major component of lipid rafts, in regulating bone physiology remain unclear. This research identifies increased STOM expression in bone tissue of osteoporosis patients and ovariectomized mice. STOM-deficient mice show higher bone mass under both normal conditions and after ovariectomy. Furthermore, we clarify that STOM is a positive regulator of osteoclast differentiation. Through transcriptomic and bioinformatics approaches, our research reveals that inhibiting STOM increases antioxidant proteins and suppresses ROS-mediated transcriptional pathways in osteoclasts. Mechanistically, STOM interacts with Prdx1, promoting its degradation through the lysosomal pathway and boosting intracellular ROS production, thereby activating osteoclastogenesis. Ultimately, targeted inhibition of macrophage STOM expression in mice alleviates ovariectomized-induced bone loss. Overall, these findings show STOM directly regulates osteoclasts, suggesting that targeting it may modulate pathological bone remodeling.
PXD042947	40595564	Enrichment of extracellular vesicles using Mag-Net for the analysis of the plasma proteome. 	Mag-Net: Rapid enrichment of membrane-bound particles enables high coverage quantitative analysis of the plasma proteome	DIA mass spectrometry, extracellular vesicles, neurodegenerative disease, plasma proteomics, quantitative proteomics	Extracellular vesicles (EVs) in plasma are composed of exosomes, microvesicles, and apoptotic bodies. We report a plasma EV enrichment strategy using magnetic beads called Mag-Net. Proteomic interrogation of this plasma EV fraction enables the detection of proteins that are beyond the dynamic range of liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry of unfractionated plasma. Mag-Net is robust, reproducible, inexpensive, and requires <100 muL plasma input. Coupled to data-independent mass spectrometry, we demonstrate the measurement of >37,000 peptides from >4,000 proteins. Using Mag-Net on a pilot cohort of patients with neurodegenerative disease and healthy controls, we find 204 proteins that differentiate (q-value < 0.05) patients with Alzheimer's disease dementia (ADD) from those without ADD. There are also 310 proteins that differ between individuals with Parkinson's disease and without. Using machine learning we distinguish between individuals with ADD and not ADD with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) = 0.98 +/- 0.06.
PXD064129	40595569	DRAM1 promotes the stability of lysosomal VAMP8 to enhance autolysosome formation and facilitates the extravasation. 	The identification of VAMP8 interactive protein under normal and EBSS condition	E3 ligase, EBSS, VAMP8	Autophagy classically functions to protect cells and organisms during stressful conditions by catabolizing intracellular components to maintain energy homeostasis. Lysosome-autophagosome fusion is a critical step in emptying degraded unwanted contents. However, the mechanism of autophagosome fusion with lysosomes is still not fully understood. Here, we report that DNA Damage-Regulated Autophagy Modulator 1 (DRAM1) interacts with Vesicle Associated Membrane Protein 8 (VAMP8) to mediate the fusion of autophagosomes with lysosomes. This DRAM1-VAMP8 interaction is enhanced upon stimulation of autophagy. However, DRAM1 preferentially mediates the fusion between autophagosomes and lysosomes by enhancing the assembly of the STX17-SNAP29-VAMP8 complex. Moreover, we reveal that DRAM1 specifically promotes the stability of lysosomal VAMP8 via inhibiting VAMP8 degradation by CHIP mediating ubiquitination. We also identify that DRAM1 inhibits the ubiquitination of VAMP8 at Lys 68,72, and 75 via competitively binding with CHIP. Furthermore, we demonstrate that DRAM1 promotes the extravasation of Hepatocellular Carcinoma (HCC) cells, and this process relies on enhanced autophagosome degradation. Our study reveals a mechanism for regulating autolysosome formation by DRAM1-VAMP8 association and suggests a potential strategy to inhibit the extravasation of HCC.
PXD064699	40595720	Proteomic analysis of Down syndrome cerebrospinal fluid compared to late-onset and autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease. 	Down Syndrome and Alzheimer Disease CSF Proteome	CSF Proteomics, Downs Syndrome, estimated year of onset	Almost all individuals with Down Syndrome (DS) develop Alzheimer's disease (AD) by mid to late life. However, the degree to which AD in DS shares pathological changes with sporadic late-onset AD (LOAD) and autosomal dominant AD (ADAD) beyond core AD biomarkers such as amyloid-beta (Abeta) and tau is unknown. Here, we used proteomics of cerebrospinal fluid from individuals with DS (n = 229) in the Down Alzheimer Barcelona Neuroimaging Initiative (DABNI) cohort to assess the evolution of AD pathophysiology from asymptomatic to dementia stages and compared the proteomic biomarker changes in DS to those observed in LOAD and ADAD. Although many proteomic alterations were shared across DS, LOAD, and ADAD, DS demonstrated more severe changes in immune-related proteins, extracellular matrix pathways, and plasma proteins likely related to blood-brain barrier dysfunction compared to LOAD. These changes were present in young adults with DS prior to the onset of Abeta or tau pathology, suggesting they are associated with trisomy 21 and may serve as risk factors for DSAD. DSAD showed an earlier increase in markers of axonal and white matter pathology and earlier changes in markers potentially associated with cerebral amyloid angiopathy compared to ADAD. The unique features of DSAD may have important implications for treatment strategies in this population.
PXD056258	40596376	Proteomic profiling of plasma extracellular vesicles identifies signatures of innate immunity, coagulation, and endothelial activation in septic patients. 	Discovery of biomarker proteins in plasma extracellular vesicles from septic patients	Sepsis, biomarker, plasma-derived extracellular vesicles (EVs), tandem mass tag (TMT)	Plasma extracellular vesicles (EVs) are cell-derived lipid particles and reportedly play a role in sepsis pathogenesis. This study aimed to identify EV cargo proteins in septic patients and explore their association with key sepsis pathophysiology. Plasma EVs were subjected to Tandem Mass Tag (TMT)-based quantitative proteomic analysis. We identified 522 differentially expressed (DE) EV proteins in septic patients (n = 15) compared to the healthy controls (n = 10). The KEGG analysis of the DE proteins revealed multiple functional pathways linked to sepsis, e.g., complement/coagulation, platelet activation, phagosome, inflammation, and neutrophil extracellular trap formation. Weighted Gene Coexpression Network Analysis of 1,642 EV proteins identified nine unique protein modules, some of which were highly correlated with the sepsis diagnosis and diverse endotype markers including organ injury, inflammation, coagulopathy, and endothelial activation, and mortality. ROC analysis revealed a list of novel EV proteins that exhibited strong diagnostic performance. Cell type-specific enrichment analysis revealed the cellular origins of EVs, including immune and epithelial cells, neurons, and glial cells. Thus, the current study discovered complex proteomic signatures in plasma EVs that are closely associated with key pathophysiological responses in sepsis. These findings support the importance of EV cargo proteins in the patients' immune responses, coagulation, and endothelial activation and lay the foundation for future mechanistic study of plasma EVs and their clinical application as potential diagnostic and prognostic markers.
PXD057128	40596516	DNA probe pulldown screening uncovers O-GlcNAcylation modulation of transcription factor DNA interactions. 	Probing the Role of O-GlcNAcylation in Modulating Protein-DNA Interactions: Insights from a Proteomic Transcription Factor Response Element-Based Pulldown Screening Approach	DNA-protein interaction, O-GlcNAc, transcription factors	O-linked beta-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc), a critical post-translational modification predominantly found in the nucleus, plays a substantial role in regulating gene expression by modulating transcription factors (TFs) activity. However, quantitative analysis investigating the influence of O-GlcNAcylation on protein-DNA interactions at a proteome scale remains undone. Herein, a pulldown screening approach using a consensus TF response element (catTFRE) was employed to unravel the impact of fluctuating levels of O-GlcNAcylation on the DNA binding efficiency of endogenous TFs/co-factors. Utilizing quantitative proteomics, we identified a substantial enhancement in the binding capacity of 241 nuclear proteins (NPs) to DNA sequences due to elevated levels of O-GlcNAcylation, whereas a decrease in DNA binding was observed for 2 NPs concurrently. Intriguingly, the O-GlcNAcylation elevation significantly enhanced the binding of 146 TFs/co-factors to specific DNA sequences. We further established that the O-GlcNAcylation of several Forkhead family TFs, including FOXA1 and FOXC1, notably enhances their binding to specific DNA sequences in living cells. Our research presents an efficacious approach to assessing the impact of O-GlcNAcylation on the interactions between proteins and DNA. This significantly enhances our understanding of the role O-GlcNAcylation plays in the regulation of transcription.
PXD054309	40596636	Proteomic analysis of Buffalo milk somatic cells reveals metabolomic and immunological transitions during early lactation. 	Characterization and functional differentiation of colostrum, transition milk, and mature milk somatic cells proteomes in multiparous Murrah buffaloes	Murrah buffaloes, colostrum, mature milk, milk somatic cells, transitional milk	Buffalo milk is renowned for its nutritional and functional properties. Milk somatic cells protect the mammary gland, contribute to the functionality of the udder, and also aid in the health and development of newborn calves, particularly during the critical early lactation period. However, proteomic changes in buffalo milk somatic cells during the transition from colostrum to mature milk remain poorly understood. This study was formulated to characterize the proteomic dynamics of buffalo milk somatic cells using Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) during colostrum-to-mature milk transition and to reveal shifts in metabolic and immune functions. A total of 4,429 high-confidence proteins were identified in the colostrum and milk of buffaloes. Up-regulated proteins [Padj<0.05, log2(Fold change, FC) >= 1.5] across different days of sampling were involved in metabolism of sugars, lipids, and amino acids, pentose-phosphate pathway, insulin-signaling, biosynthesis of amino acids and cofactors, and ubiquitin-proteasome system. Down-regulated proteins [Padj<0.05, log2(FC) <= 0.5] were associated with lipid transport, aldosterone synthesis and secretion, mineral balance, complement-coagulation system, antigen processing and presentation, and mRNA processing. A notable shift in hub proteins was detected, and selected ones were validated by real-time qPCR. These findings highlight significant changes in the proteome profile, biological functions, and specific pathways in milk somatic cells during early lactation in buffaloes. In conclusion, milk somatic cells contribute not only to mammary immunity but also to the nutritional support of the growing calf.
PXD062965	40597232	Behavioral assessment and gene expression changes in a mouse model with dysfunctional STAT1 signaling. 	Hippocampal proteome profiling of a mouse model with dysfunctional STAT1 signaling	STAT signaling, hippocampus, interferon signaling, label-free protein quantification, proteome analysis, transcriptome analysis	BACKGROUND: Signal transduction via the Signal Transducer and Activator of Transcription 1 (STAT1) pathway is indispensable for mediating the intracellular effects of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha), interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) and other cytokines in the brain and, thereby, crucial for antiviral and antibacterial responses during potential life-threatening CNS infections. However, the role of STAT1 signaling beyond the known IFN-alpha and IFN-gamma effects in immediate antimicrobial defense is highly context-dependent, and studies in the existing literature using STAT1-targeted mouse models under normal physiological conditions remain scarce. METHODS: Here, we characterized a STAT1 targeted-disruption mouse model in the absence of infectious stimuli by employing established behavioral testing paradigms and immunohistochemical stainings, as well as bulk hippocampal transcriptomic and proteomic analyses. RESULTS: While we found neither overt behavioral alterations nor immunohistochemical changes with respect to microglial phagocytosis or proliferation, significant alterations were detected in gene and protein expression profiles implicated in neuroinflammatory processes and neuroprotection. CONCLUSION: In summary, this study highlights the complex and context-dependent role of STAT1-mediated signaling even in the absence of any detectable behavioral and neuropathological changes.
PXD064832	40598158	TRIM24 regulates chromatin remodeling and calcium dynamics in cardiomyocytes. 	Comparative proteomic profiling of neonatal rat ventricular cardiomyocytes (NRVCMs) following TRIM24 overexpression	TRIM24, neonatal rat ventricular cardiomyocytes, rat	BACKGROUND: Cardiomyocyte proteostasis and calcium homeostasis are critical for maintaining cardiac function, with their dysregulation contributing to cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure. The Tripartite Motif Protein 24 (TRIM24), a well-characterized chromatin reader and transcriptional regulator in cancer, has recently emerged as a potential player in cardiac biology. However, its precise role in cardiomyocytes remains unclear. Using molecular, structural and functional approaches, this study investigates the impact of TRIM24 on cardiomyocyte function and gene regulation. METHODS: To dissect the molecular and functional role of TRIM24, we conducted RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) and chromatin immunoprecipitation sequencing (ChIP-seq) in neonatal rat ventricular cardiomyocytes (NRVCMs) to identify TRIM24-regulated pathways and transcriptional targets. Super-resolution microscopy and proteomics analysis were employed to examine its influence on chromatin organization and calcium-handling protein distribution. Calcium imaging and cardiomyocyte contractility assays were performed in both NRVCMs and human induced pluripotent stem cell-derived cardiomyocytes (iPSC-CMs) to assess functional effects. Additionally, NFAT activity was assessed to investigate its role in TRIM24-mediated hypertrophic signaling. RESULTS: Through RNA-seq and ChIP-seq, we identified TRIM24 as a bidirectional transcriptional regulator, predominantly acting as a repressor but also exhibiting context-dependent activation of genes involved in e.g. cytoskeletal organization and calcium signaling. ChIP-seq identified TRIM24 binding at the NFATc4 locus, validated by motif analysis, while functional studies revealed that TRIM24 regulates NFATc4 protein levels and activity, enhancing upon overexpression and reducing upon knockdown. Furthermore, TRIM24 overexpression altered the expression and organization of Ryanodine Receptor 2 (RyR2), Sarcoplasmic/endoplasmic Reticulum Ca(2+) ATPase 2a (SERCA2a), and Calsequestrin 1 (CASQ1), leading to calcium-handling defects. Super-resolution microscopy revealed a loss of chromatin organization and altered clustering of calcium-handling proteins. Despite a reduction in SERCA2a levels, TRIM24 activated the PI3K-AKT/PLN pathway, increasing phospholamban phosphorylation and compensatory calcium reuptake. In functional assays, TRIM24 overexpression increased beating frequency and calcium cycling in both NRVCMs and iPSC-CMs. CONCLUSION: Our findings establish TRIM24 as a novel regulator of chromatin remodeling and cardiomyocyte transcription, directly influencing calcium homeostasis and contractility, with potential implications for cardiac disease.
PXD061884	40598419	Peritoneal cavity-derived small extracellular vesicles from aged tumor-naive hosts promote ovarian cancer adhesion and invasion. 	Derived Small Extracellular Vesicles	Aged Tumor-Nave Hosts, Extracellular Vesicles, Ovarian Cancer	BACKGROUND: Epithelial ovarian cancer (OvCa) remains a leading cause of mortality among gynecological cancers. Metastasis to the peritoneum, characterized by tumor cell adhesion to and invasion of the mesothelial lining of the abdominal cavity, represents a critical early event in OvCa metastatic progression. The median age of diagnosis is 63 and there exists a strong correlation between advanced age, OvCa incidence and disease stage. Moreover, the aged peritoneal cavity represents a permissive niche for metastatic dissemination. METHODS: To investigate age-related factors that influence host-tumor communication in metastatic progression, the current study isolated small extracellular vesicles (sEVs) from the peritoneal lavage of healthy tumor-naive young (3-6 month) and aged (20-22 month) mice. sEVs were analyzed using LC-MS/MS to identify sEV protein cargoes and incubated with murine and human OvCa cells to evaluate effect on pro-metastatic behaviors. RESULTS: Treatment of human or murine OvCa cells with sEVs from healthy aged hosts significantly enhanced adhesion to peritoneal mesothelial cells in a three-dimensional in vitro meso-mimetic culture assay and to the intact omentum in a short-term in vivo adhesion assay relative to OvCa cells treated with sEVs from young hosts. OvCa cell invasion of collagen gels was also enhanced by aged host-derived sEVs. Proteomic analysis of sEV protein cargos identified differentially expressed proteins in sEVs obtained from aged vs. young hosts that may play a significant role in regulation of adhesion. This was confirmed using meso-mimetic adhesion assays with function blocking antibodies or small molecule inhibitors, supporting a potential role for several proteins in promoting intra-peritoneal dissemination in the aged host. CONCLUSIONS: Results suggest that sEVs derived from the aged peritoneal microenvironment can contribute significantly to disease progression, highlighting sEV-mediated host: tumor communication as a potential therapeutic target for intervention in OvCa progression or recurrence in the aged host.
PXD051162	40598894	A-to-I mRNA editing in bacteria can affect protein sequence, disulfide bond formation, and function. 	A-to-I mRNA editing controls disulfide bond formation and the toxicity of the HokB toxin in bacteria	Adenosine-to-Inosine RNA editing, Bacteria, Disulfide bond, DsbA, HokB, TadA, Toxin-antitoxin	Adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) mRNA editing can alter genetic information at the RNA level and is known to affect protein sequence and function in eukaryotes. However, the ability of A-to-I mRNA editing to recode protein sequences in bacteria was never shown at the protein level. Furthermore, the effect of A-to-I mRNA editing itself-not by A-to-G DNA-mimicking mutations-on protein function was never demonstrated in bacteria. Here, we show at the RNA and protein levels that A-to-I mRNA editing directly recodes a tyrosine to a cysteine residue in the toxin HokB (part of the HokB/sokB toxin-antitoxin system in Escherichia coli). Consequently, the toxicity of edited HokB increases, inducing bacterial death or early entrance into the stationary phase, depending on its expression level. Furthermore, we demonstrate that in vivo disulfide bond formation underlies the effect of A-to-I mRNA editing on HokB function, suggesting that A-to-I mRNA editing constitutes a novel mechanism to regulate disulfide bond formation in bacteria. Finally, we observe that A-to-I mRNA editing of hokB is conserved in pathogenic bacteria, supporting functional importance with possible clinical relevance. Our work reveals that A-to-I mRNA editing can constitute a novel mechanism to regulate protein sequence, disulfide bonds, and function in bacteria.
PXD063179	40598933	Covalent Targeting Leads to the Development of a LIMK1 Isoform-Selective Inhibitor. 	Covalent targeting leads to the development of LIMK1 isoform-selective inhibitors	LIMK1, chemoproteomics, kinase	Selectivity for closely related isoforms of protein kinases is a major challenge in the design of drugs and chemical probes. Covalent targeting of unique cysteines is a potential strategy to achieve selectivity for highly conserved binding sites. Here, we used a pan-LIMK inhibitor to selectively probe LIMK1 over LIMK2 by targeting the LIMK1-specific cysteine C349 located in the glycine-rich loop region. Binding kinetics of both noncovalent and covalent LIMK inhibitors were investigated, and the fast on-rate and small size of type-I inhibitors were used in the design of a covalent LIMK1 inhibitor. The developed cell-active, isoform-selective LIMK1 inhibitor showed excellent proteome-wide selectivity in pull-down assays, enabling studies of LIMK1 isoform-selective functions in cellular model systems and providing a versatile chemical tool for studies of the LIMK signaling pathway.
PXD059952	40599774	Identification of potential prognostic biomarkers of thymoma with myasthenia gravis based on serum proteomics. 	Prognostic Biomarkers of Thymoma with Myasthenia Gravis Based on Serum Proteomics	Myasthenia Gravis, Thymoma	Background: Thymoma is often associated with myasthenia gravis (MG), and the resection of thymoma improves myasthenic symptoms in patients with thymoma and MG (TMG), but some patients still have no relief. Through proteomic analysis, we examined preoperative serum samples from patients with TMG to identify key prognostic proteins that could serve as a foundation for clinically predicting postoperative efficacy and guiding treatment selection. Method: According to the Clinical Research Guidelines of the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation of America (MGFA) for Post-Intervention Status (PIS), 20 patients with TMG were divided into an effective group (T1) [the PIS was minimal manifestation status (MMS) and above] and an ineffective group (T2) (the PIS did not reach MMS and above), with 10 cases each, and a healthy control group (C) with nine cases. Blood samples from the three groups were collected through data-independent acquisition (DIA) proteomic analysis performed by mass spectrometry to identify differentially expressed proteins and search for key proteins associated with myasthenia prognosis. Finally, the target proteins were validated through the utilization of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Results: A total of 514 proteins were identified in this research. Between the T1 and T2 groups, there were 20 proteins that exhibited differential expression, with 10 showing upregulation and 10 displaying downregulation. The Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) functional annotation indicated that these proteins were mainly involved in signaling pathways such as complement and coagulation cascade, prion disease, systemic lupus erythematosus, neutrophil extracellular trap formation, and transcription dysregulation in cancer. Three proteins were discovered to have a significant correlation with the prognosis of TMG: L-selectin (SELL) was downregulated, and human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I histocompatibility antigen (HLA-A) and complement 5 (C5) were upregulated. ELISA results confirmed the proteomic results. Conclusion: HLA-A, C5, and SELL may be potential prognostic biomarkers of TMG. This study may provide a more accurate prognostic risk assessment of TMG patients to help clinicians better individualize the initial treatment regimen for patients with different risk stratification, plan a more reasonable frequency of follow-up visits, and make more precise maintenance treatment decisions, thereby improving the overall prognosis of TMG patients.
PXD061476	40601435	Mediator Kinase Inhibitor Selectivity and Activity in Colorectal Cancer. 	Confirmation of cdk8/19 inhibitor selectivity and activity in colorectal cancer	CDK19, CDK8, Phosphoproteome, colorectal cancer, inhibitor	The Mediator complex is a regulator of gene expression, influencing chromatin structure and RNA polymerase II-mediated transcription. Its activity is controlled by a protein kinase module, which includes cyclin-dependent kinases 8 and 19, that phosphorylates RNA polymerase II and transcription factors to regulate gene expression. Using orthogonal approaches combining chemical and genetic tools, we demonstrated the selectivity of our small-molecule inhibitors derived from 3,4,5-trisubstituted pyridine and 3-methyl-1H-pyrazolo[3,4-b]pyridine chemical series in human colorectal cell culture and tumor xenograft models. The lack of activity of our inhibitors in CDK8/19 double knockout models, with respect to molecular, proliferative, and antitumor end points, revealed their specificity and dependence on these kinases. Using our chemical probes and knockout models, we explored Mediator kinase function in human colorectal cancer cells. Phospho-proteome profiling revealed substrates enriched with transcription and chromatin regulators, while promoter reporter experiments identified transcription factor binding sites, including TCF/LEF and AP1, regulated by Mediator kinases. Additionally, altered phosphorylation of several Mediator subunits suggests a mechanism for the rapid regulation of the Mediator complex. Overall, our results demonstrate that CDK8 and CDK19 play pivotal roles in regulating gene expression associated with oncogene activation and signaling pathways. Further studies are warranted to elucidate their broader cellular roles and regulatory mechanisms. The selective inhibitors validated in this study will provide valuable tools for such mechanistic investigations into Mediator kinase functions and their potential therapeutic exploitation.
PXD060790	40601773	A genome-wide in vivo CRISPR activation screen identifies BACE1 as a therapeutic vulnerability of lung cancer brain metastasis. 	Genome-wide in vivo CRISPR activation screen identifies BACE1 as a therapeutic vulnerability of lung cancer brain metastasis	BACE1, EGFR	Brain metastasis occurs in up to 40% of patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Considerable genomic heterogeneity exists between the primary lung tumor and respective brain metastasis; however, the identity of the genes capable of driving brain metastasis is incompletely understood. Here, we carried out an in vivo genome-wide CRISPR activation screen to identify molecular drivers of brain metastasis from an orthotopic xenograft model derived from a patient with NSCLC. We found that activating expression of the Alzheimer's disease-associated beta-secretase 1 (BACE1) led to a substantial increase in brain metastases. Furthermore, genetic and pharmacological inhibition of BACE1 blocked NSCLC brain metastasis. Mechanistically, we identified that BACE1 acts through epidermal growth factor receptor to drive this metastatic phenotype. Together, our data highlight the power of in vivo CRISPR activation screening to unveil molecular drivers and potential therapeutic targets of NSCLC brain metastasis.
PXD063058	40602528	Proteome profiling of cerebrospinal fluid and machine learning reveal protein classifiers of two forms of Alzheimer's disease characterized by increased or not altered levels of tau. 	Proteome profiling of cerebrospinal fluid and machine learning reveal biomarkers of two forms of Alzheimer's disease characterized by increased or not altered levels of tau	Alzherimer's disease - cerebrospinal fluid - proteomics - machine learning - biomarkers	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder that presents with heterogeneous clinical and pathological features, necessitating improved biomarkers for accurate diagnosis and patient stratification. In this study, we applied a data-independent acquisition (DIA)-based proteomics workflow to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from 138 individuals, including AD patients with high (Abeta+/tau+) or normal (Abeta+/tau-) CSF tau levels, and non-AD controls. Analysis using an Astral mass spectrometer enabled unprecedented proteome depth, identifying 2661 proteins with high data completeness. Comparative proteomic profiling revealed distinct protein signatures for Abeta+/tau+ and Abeta+/tau- subtypes. These findings were validated using an independent internal cohort and further corroborated with publicly available datasets from larger external AD cohorts, demonstrating the robustness and reproducibility of our results. Using machine learning, we identified a panel of 15 protein classifiers that accurately distinguished the two AD subtypes and controls across datasets. Notably, several of these proteins were elevated in the preclinical stage, underscoring their potential utility for early diagnosis and stratification. Together, our results demonstrate the power of DIA proteomics on the Astral platform, combined with machine learning, to uncover subtype-specific biomarkers of AD and support the development of personalized diagnostic strategies.
PXD064016	40603316	Oleic acid restores the impaired antitumor immunity of gammadelta-T cells induced by palmitic acid. 	Proteomics of human Vgamma9Vdelta2-T cells treated with BSA, PA, or OA by LC-MS/MS	PA or OA, human Vgamma9Vdelta2-T cells	Dietary fatty acids (FAs) are associated with the therapeutic intervention under various health conditions. Human gammadelta-T cells are indispensable for immunosurveillance toward malignant cells. However, their impact on gammadelta-T cell metabolism and function remains poorly unexplored. Here, we applied targeted metabolomics analysis to serum FAs among cancer patients undergoing gammadelta-T cell therapy and discovered that palmitic acid (PA) or oleic acid (OA) levels were associated with the efficacy of Vgamma9Vdelta2-T cell therapy. We further elucidated that PA suppresses the antitumor activity of Vgamma9Vdelta2-T cells by disrupting metabolic processes and inhibiting the secretion of lytic granules, whereas OA restores the impaired antitumor activity of Vgamma9Vdelta2-T cells. Mechanistically, we surprisingly found that PA stimulates Vgamma9Vdelta2-T cells to secrete excessive IFNgamma, which in turn induces cell pyroptosis, ultimately resulting in decreased antitumor activity. In contrast, OA reduces IFNgamma secretion and mitigates cell pyroptosis, thereby restoring their antitumor activity. Alternatively, direct blockade of IFNgamma by anti-IFNgamma mAb or inhibition of pyroptosis by dimethyl fumarate (DMF) also restores their antitumor activity. This study highlights a novel mechanism whereby dietary FAs modulate gammadelta-T cell function through regulating IFNgamma-mediated pyroptosis. Additionally, it offers proof-of-concept for an innovative approach by targeting IFNgamma-mediated pyroptosis or dietary OA supplementation to strengthen the antitumor immunity of gammadelta-T cells against cancers.
PXD058911	40603430	Achromobacter xylosoxidans modulates Pseudomonas aeruginosa virulence through a complex multi-target competition. 	Interaction between Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Achromobacter xylosoxidans: unravelling the molecular basis of competition affecting P. aeruginosa virulence	bacterial interaction, pathogens	The colonization and persistence of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in chronically diseased lungs are driven by various virulence factors. However, pulmonary infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients are predominantly polymicrobial. While Achromobacter xylosoxidans is an opportunistic pathogen in these patients, its impact on P. aeruginosa virulence during co-infection remains largely unknown. This study investigated P. aeruginosa interaction with two clonally related A. xylosoxidans strains, Ax 198 and Ax 200, co-isolated from CF sputum. We found that the interaction was strain-dependent, with Ax 200 significantly reducing P. aeruginosa virulence in a zebrafish model, providing the first in vivo evidence of this interaction. Proteomic analysis revealed that P. aeruginosa proteome was differently impacted by the two A. xylosoxidans strains, with Ax 200 altering proteins involved in biofilm formation, swimming motility, iron acquisition, and secretion systems. These findings were validated by phenotypic assays, confirming that A. xylosoxidans affected major P. aeruginosa virulence phenotypes, including biofilm formation, swimming motility, and siderophore production. Genetic analysis confirmed that distinct regulatory mechanisms, including iron cycle pathways, may account for the strain-dependent effects. These findings reveal a novel multi-target competitive mechanism through which A. xylosoxidans significantly disrupts P. aeruginosa virulence.
PXD064277	40603560	Lysyl-tRNA synthetase orchestrates translation and hormone signaling during reproduction in Aedes aegypti mosquitoes. 	iTRAQ-based proteomic analysis of female Aedes aegypti mosquitoes during reproduction	Aedes aegypti, iTRAQ, proteomic analysis, reproduction	The regulation of mosquito reproduction at the transcriptional level is well understood, but the translational mechanisms remain unclear. Here, we find that lysyl-tRNA synthetase (KARS) is essential for translational regulation and governs mosquito fecundity in a hormone-dependent manner. RNA interference silencing of KARS severely inhibits ovarian maturation and impairs mosquito fecundity. Polysome profiling shows enhanced translation initiation in KARS-deficient mosquitoes, as supported by increased phosphorylation of p70 ribosomal protein S6 kinase and decreased phosphorylation of the translation initiation factor eIF2alpha. By contrast, incorporated puromycin reveals a reduction in the synthesis of nascent polypeptides such as vitellogenin. Further analysis of ribosome profiling sequencing indicates that the dysregulation of mRNA translation in KARS-deficient mosquitoes was caused by ribosome stalling. Furthermore, the knockdown of KARS results in a significant increase in JH and a decline in 20E, thereby forcing the mosquitoes to maintain prereproductive status and preventing the 20E-activated vitellogenesis. This study demonstrates the function of KARS in regulating reproduction during the gonadotrophic cycle, hence providing insights into the potential control of disease-transmitting mosquitoes.
PXD063289	40604416	Study on the physiological mechanism and molecular regulatory network of Blumea balsamifera in response to drought stress. 	Blumea balsamifera of protemics	Drought resistance mechanism, Drought stress, Transcriptomics	Drought restricts plant growth and agricultural production. As an important medicinal plant, Blumea balsamifera is sensitive to water, but there is still a lack of systematic research on its drought response mechanism. In this study, four-month-old B. balsamifera seedlings were used as materials, and three groups were set up: normal irrigation (CK), drought stress (DS), and rewatering recovery (RW). The results showed that drought significantly inhibited the growth and photosynthesis of B. balsamifera. With the prolongation of stress time (day 12), the limiting factor of photosynthesis changed from initial stomatal limitation to non - stomatal limitation. In terms of physiology and biochemistry, B. balsamifera increased MDA content by actively reducing SPAD value and relative water content of leaves; and activates the antioxidant enzyme system to remove ROS, synergistically accumulates lignin, soluble sugar, proline and other osmotic adjustment substances, and jointly maintains cell water balance and membrane system stability. Through transcriptome and proteome analysis, 20,874 DEGs and 2770 DEPs were screened out, which were significantly enriched in terms related to ribosome, oxidoreductase activity, biosynthesis of unsaturated fatty acids and other pathways. A total of 55 drought - related DEGs - DEPs were identified by two - omics, and 18 key regulatory genes were screened. In summary, B. balsamifera formed a comprehensive drought resistance mechanism through photosynthesis, physiology and DEGs - DEPs network. This study provides theoretical support for the breeding and resource development of B. balsamifera, and also provides reference for the study of stress resistance of other medicinal plants.
PXD059015	40604837	Unflavored electronic cigarette exposure induces alterations in airway ciliary structure and function. 	Proteomics and phosphoproteomics analysis primary human airway epithelial cells exposed to unflavored electronic cigarette smoke	Cigarette exposure, Phosphoproteomics, Primary lung cells	Electronic cigarettes (e-cigs) have been introduced as a safer alternative to traditional combustible cigarettes and have been growing in popularity. E-cig e-liquids all contain the carrier compounds, vegetable glycerin (VG), propylene glycol (PG), and nicotine, together with different flavors, but the effects of inhalation of these compounds on the airway are not well understood. This study investigates the effects of e-cig exposure on primary human airway epithelial cells grown in air-liquid interface (ALI) cultures, specifically focusing on mucociliary clearance, the lung's primary host defense mechanism whereby pathogens and particles trapped by mucus are cleared by unidirectional beating by ciliated cells. We developed a microcontroller-based exposure system to reproducibly examine cellular and molecular changes in ALI cultures from e-cig exposure. Here we show heterogeneous, donor-dependent effects of different e-cig flavors on airway epithelial cells. Examining the effects of the unflavored carrier compounds common to all e-cigs, we found that ALI airway cultures exposed to PG:VG (30:70 ratio) with 5% nicotine unflavored e-cigs show a reduction in ciliary beat frequency. Moreover, using transmission electron microscopy, we identified defects in ciliary ultrastructure induced by unflavored e-cigs. Phosphoproteomic analysis uncovered changes in phosphorylation of proteins involved in cadherin and actin binding and the Rho GTPase signaling pathway, which are all involved in cytoskeletal remodeling that may influence ciliary structure and function. Altogether, our findings suggest that exposure to all e-cigs reduces mucociliary clearance.
PXD058077	40607430	N-glycosylation patterns of plasma immunoglobulin G in anti-synthetase syndrome disease. 	N-glycosylation patterns of plasma immunoglobulin G in anti-synthetase syndrome disease	Anti-synthetase syndrome (ASS), Glycopeptide, Immunoglobulin G (IgG), N-glycosylation	Introduction: Anti-synthetase syndrome (ASS) is a subtype of idiopathic inflammatory myopathy (IIM) characterized by characteristic rash, myositis, and interstitial lung disease (ILD). The etiology of ASS is unknown, and patients have a poor quality of life and are prone to pulmonary infection. Recent studies have elucidated the potential role of abnormal glycosylation of immunoglobulin G (IgG) in the pathogenesis of autoimmune diseases. However, the pattern of patient-specific IgG N-glycosylation in ASS has not been fully elucidated. Methods: the GlycoQuant method was used to quantify the intact N-glycopeptides of IgG from 30 ASS patients and 30 healthy controls (HCs). Results and Discussion: Thirteen differentially expressed intact N-glycopeptides were identified (p<0.05). Notably, we observed increased fucosylation (p<0.0001) and decreased N-acetylneuraminic acid (p<0.05) in ASS patients. In addition, specific glycosylation patterns correlated with lung function parameters. Our study revealed the IgG glycosylation profile in ASS patients and provided a valuable reference for further investigation of its potential diagnostic and prognostic applications.
PXD060399	40607986	Engineered Membrane Vesicle Production via oprF or oprI Deletion Has Distinct Phenotypic Effects in Pseudomonas putida. 	Pseudomonas putida membrane vesicles	DatasetType:Proteomics, IPTL, diDO-IPTL, omv, pseudomonas, vesicle	Membrane vesicle (MV) production is a natural phenomenon in Gram-negative bacteria and represents an emerging synthetic biology tool for the secretion of biomolecules or bioproducts. Manipulation of membrane components has proven successful in enhancing MV production. However, the impact of membrane disruptions on strain fitness and protein composition warrants further investigation for the use of MVs in industrial bioprocesses. Here, we identify and characterize two genetic engineering strategies for inducing hypervesiculation-deletion of genes for the outer membrane porin OprF or the lipoprotein OprI-in the commonly used platform Pseudomonas putida KT2440. Deletion of oprI generated up to a 1.5-fold increase in MVs, larger MVs with a greater proportion of outer membrane proteins, and no significant impact on strain fitness compared to wild type. In contrast, deletion of oprF, relative to wild type, generated up to a 4-fold increase in MVs but diminished growth, permeabilized membranes, and increased cytosolic protein packaging. Both hypervesiculation phenotypes increased nontargeted and MV-targeted mNeonGreen extracellular signal by up to 6-fold, demonstrating vesiculation as a mechanism for protein secretion. Despite increased blebbing of MVs from gene deletions, proteins involved in membrane biosynthesis were not elevated relative to wild type. Overexpression of gpsA, which initiates glycerophospholipid biosynthesis, in the DeltaoprF background improved the membrane integrity by 37% and maintained MV formation, highlighting the importance of membrane biosynthesis in restoring the membrane in hypervesiculating strains. Together, this study provides genetic engineering strategies with corresponding phenotypic outcomes toward providing a synthetic biology toolset for MV deployment in P. putida.
PXD058403	40608933	Membrane topology inversion of GGCX mediates cytoplasmic carboxylation for antiviral defense. 	Proteomic identification of MAVS carboxylation site-associated proteins	innate immunity, mitochondria	Mitochondrial antiviral signaling protein (MAVS) is an adaptor involved in antiviral immunity, but its regulation is not fully understood. We identified carboxylation of MAVS by vitamin K (VK)-dependent gamma-glutamyl carboxylase (GGCX), which was unexpected owing to the reported membrane topology of GGCX. We found that GGCX could undergo topology inversion to carboxylate MAVS within the cytoplasm. This carboxylation enhanced the ability of MAVS to induce type I interferons while suppressing the induction of apoptosis. Genetic knockout of GGCX, a VK-free diet, or depletion of VK by inhibiting VK epoxide reductase 1 with warfarin increased viral susceptibility in mice. Thus, we identified a MAVS regulatory mechanism-the existence of cytoplasmic protein carboxylation and topological inversion of GGCX-and demonstrated how modulating VK levels may influence antiviral defense.
PXD012345	40610411	Decoding MUC1 and AR axis in a radiation-induced neuroendocrine prostate cancer cell-subpopulation unveils novel therapeutic targets. 	METAPROTEOMIC INVESTIGATION OF BIOAEROSOL FROM WORK ENVIRONMENTS	Metaproteomics, agricultural holding, bioaereosol, composting plant, extraction methods, high resolution mass spectrometry, metaproteomics, wastewater treatment plant	Despite the initial efficacy of radiotherapy (RT) in treating prostate adenocarcinoma (PCa), disease progression can lead to the emergence of neuroendocrine prostate cancer (NEPC) - a highly aggressive malignancy for which standard therapies are mostly ineffective. Although oncogenic MUC1-C is a leading driver of NEPC and of PCa lineage plasticity, its putative role in response to RT, including RT-induced neuroendocrine transdifferentiation (tNED), has not been explored. We thus aimed to explore the interplay between androgen receptor (AR) signaling and MUC1 in PCa progression to NEPC. Firstly, using a radioresistant PCa cell line (22Rv1-RR), we demonstrated that epigenetic suppression of AR signaling led to MUC1/MUC1-C upregulation, which seems to be activated through gammaSTAT3. MUC1 activation is positively associated with increased expression of neuroendocrine-related markers, including CD56, chromogranin A, synaptophysin, and INSM transcriptional repressor 1 (INSM1). In NEPC tissues and compared to prostate adenocarcinoma, MUC1 was upregulated and negatively correlated with AR, which was suppressed. Finally, proteomic analyses revealed that MUC1 activation upon RT selective pressure led to the acquisition of stemness features, induction of epithelial to mesenchymal transition, and enhancement of basal cell-like traits. Notably, MUC1 knockdown significantly boosted response to RT in both 22Rv1-RR and DU145 cell lines. Moreover, AR-induced overexpression in PC3 cell lines entailed MUC1 downregulation, resulting in attenuated neuroendocrine traits and radioresistance, as well as impaired cell migration and invasion capabilities. Collectively, these results highlight MUC1 as a promising radiosensitization target and may ultimately help overcome therapy resistance and NEPC progression.
PXD051073	40610431	The trapping of live neutrophils by macrophages during infection. 	Atypical efferocytosis of live neutrophils dysregulates inflammation during P. gingivalis infection	bacterial protease, efferocytosis, immune evasion, macrophage, neutrophil	Neutrophils are highly abundant in the oral mucosal tissues, and their balanced activation and clearance are essential for immune homeostasis. Here, we demonstrate that neutrophils infected with the bacterial pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis (Pg) are captured alive by macrophages in a manner that bypasses all known receptor-ligand interactions involved in the phagocytosis of either live or dead cells. Mechanistically, upon interaction with Pg, or its protease RgpB (gingipains), live neutrophils undergo rapid remodeling of their proteomes, generating neoepitopes. N-terminomics-based proteomic profiling identified multiple RgpB cleavage sites on several azurophilic granule proteins that are translocated to the surface of live neutrophils via low-level degranulation and activate macrophage alphaMbeta2 integrin receptors, thus mediating internalization of non-apoptotic neutrophils within macrophage phagosomes. Macrophages with entrapped live neutrophils exhibit phenotypic and transcriptional reprogramming, consistent with inflammatory outcomes in vitro and in vivo. In contrast to the immunosuppressive outcomes associated with efferocytosis of apoptotic neutrophils, live neutrophil entrapment failed to fully activate several catabolic and metabolic processes and exhibited a defective activation of PPAR-gamma mediated pro-resolution pathways, thereby promoting bacterial persistence and hindering the resolution of inflammation. Thus, our data demonstrate a novel immune subversion strategy unique to Pg and reveal a previously unknown mode of live neutrophil sequestration into macrophages during an infection.
PXD064432	40610464	DDX1 methylation mediated MATR3 splicing regulates intervertebral disc degeneration by initiating chromatin reprogramming. 	DDX1 Methylation Mediated MATR3 Splicing Regulates Intervertebral Disc Degeneration by Initiating Chromatin Reprogramming	Intervertebral disc degeneration, Post-translational modification, RNA-binding protein	Low back pain (LBP), primarily driven by intervertebral disc degeneration (IVDD), has become a core challenge in public health. DDX1, an RNA-binding protein, plays key roles in RNA metabolism but its function in IVDD remains unclear. We identify DDX1 as a substrate of methyltransferase EZH2, which methylates DDX1 at lysine 234 (K234), promoting IVDD in vitro and in vivo. EZH2 inhibition restores matrix homeostasis in nucleus pulposus (NP) cells and slows IVDD progression. Methylation at DDX1 K234 disrupts its interaction with splicing factors and RNA targets, promoting exon 14 skipping in MATR3. This truncated MATR3 disrupts nuclear architecture, increases chromatin accessibility, and activates signaling pathways such as Wnt, leading to NP cell senescence and apoptosis. Notably, delivery of MATR3-L-overexpressing mRNA via cationic lipid nanoparticles reduces NP cell degeneration and significantly alleviates IVDD, offering important insights into IVDD pathogenesis and potential therapeutic strategies.
PXD060673	40611995	Thermal proteome profiling of itaconate interactome in macrophages. 	Thermal proteome profiling of itaconate interactome in macrophages	itaconate, macrophage, thermal shift profiling	Itaconate (ITA) is an upregulated immunometabolite in macrophages during pathogen infection. It is known to influence oxidation stress, cellular metabolism, programmed cell death and many other biological processes to regulate the immune response via interaction with proteins. Previous studies capture covalently ITA-modified proteins by activity-based proteome profiling with bioorthogonal chemical probes; however, how itaconate interacts non-covalently with other proteins at the proteome level remains unexplored. Here we applied thermal proteome profiling (TPP) to globally identify a large number of ITA-interacting proteins in macrophage proteomes. Among these targets, we verified mitochondrial branched-chain aminotransferase (BCAT2) as a novel non-covalent binding target of itaconate via biochemical and structural experiments. The binding of itaconate could inhibit transamination activity of BCAT and regulate the metabolism of branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs) in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated inflammatory macrophages. This study offers a valuable resource that helps decipher novel and comprehensive functions of ITA in macrophages during the immune response and other related biological processes.
PXD064803	40612101	PPP1R12B inhibits cell proliferation by inducing G0/G1 phase arrest via PAK2/beta-catenin axis in hepatocellular carcinoma. 	Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis of overexpressing PPP1R12B and control Huh7 cells samples using 4D-SmartDIA	Huh7, PPP1R12B, Quantitative phosphoproteomic analysis	Protein phosphatase 1 regulatory subunit 12B (PPP1R12B) is a regulatory subunit of protein phosphatase 1. While our previous study identified the inhibitory role of PPP1R12B in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), the precise molecular mechanisms underlying its anti-proliferative effects remain unclear. Herein, we demonstrated that PPP1R12B expression is significantly downregulated in HCC tissues and serves as an independent prognostic marker for favorable patient outcomes. Additionally, overexpression and silence of PPP1R12B experiments showed that PPP1R12B overexpression restricted cell proliferation and colony formation in vitro, and inhibited xenografted tumor growth in vivo, while its knockdown had opposite effects. Mechanistically, PPP1R12B could interact with p21-activated kinase 2 (PAK2) to suppress beta-catenin expression and phosphorylation at Ser675, thereby impeding its nuclear translocation and subsequent transcriptional activation of Cyclin D1. This cascade culminated in G0/G1 phase cell cycle arrest. Furthermore, analysis of TCGA-HCC datasets confirmed inverse correlations between PPP1R12B and PAK2 or CTNNB1 (beta-catenin) expression. Collectively, our findings elucidated a novel tumor-suppressive role of PPP1R12B in HCC through modulation of the PAK2/beta-catenin/Cyclin D1 axis.
PXD063845	40613240	RBM8A promotes gastric cancer progression by binding with UPF3B to induce BBC3 mRNA degradation. 	Identify the proteins interacting with RBM8A in gastric cancer cells through LC-MS	CoIP, Gastric cancer, LC-MS, RBM8A	RNA metabolism is an important post-transcriptional regulatory mode in organisms, and its process is cooperatively regulated by a variety of RNA-binding proteins. RNA binding motif protein 8A (RBM8A), a regulator of mRNA stability that is implicated in cancer progression, serves an important role in processes such as RNA splicing, transport, translation and decay. However, to the best of our knowledge, its role in the occurrence and development of gastric cancer (GC), as well as its biological functions and molecular mechanisms remain unclear. In the present study, RBM8A expression was on average 1.4-fold higher (P<0.05), with a maximum log2 fold change of 1.4 (2.6-fold increase), in GC tissues compared with adjacent normal tissues, as determined by multiplex immunohistochemical analysis of tissue microarrays. In vitro, transfection of RBM8A small interfering RNAs significantly suppressed the proliferation of AGS and HGC27 cells and enhanced apoptosis. Specifically, annexin V-positive AGS cells exhibited a 2.9-fold increase with siRBM8A-1 transfection and a 1.9-fold increase with siRBM8A-2 transfection, while annexin V-positive HGC27 cells exhibited a 2.3-fold increase with siRBM8A-1 transfection and a 1.8-fold increase with siRBM8A-2 transfection (P<0.05). Using MKN45 cell lines and subcutaneous xenograft models, the present study revealed that RBM8A knockdown reduced subcutaneous tumor growth in nude mice by 51.5% in terms of volume and 62.4% in terms of weight (P<0.05). In terms of the mechanism, integrated mRNA-sequencing (seq) and RNA immunoprecipitation (RIP)-seq identified BCL2 binding component 3 (BBC3), a well-characterized pro-apoptotic gene, as a direct target of RBM8A. Further results of RIP-quantitative PCR, fluorescence in situ hybridization-immunofluorescence and RNA pulldown indicated the direct interaction between RBM8A and BBC3 mRNA. Actinomycin D assays demonstrated that RBM8A promoted BBC3 mRNA degradation. Subsequently, the co-immunoprecipitation assay showed that RBM8A interacted with UPF3B to jointly regulate the stability of BBC3 mRNA. In conclusion, RBM8A inhibited apoptosis and promoted GC progression by interacting with UPF3B, leading to degradation of the pro-apoptotic gene BBC3 mRNA. These findings highlighted that interfering with RBM8A expression, or disrupting the interactions between RBM8A and BBC3 mRNA or between RBM8A and UPF3B could serve as potential therapeutic strategies for GC.
PXD063348	40613419	Transcriptional adaptation after deletion of Cdc42 in primary T cells. 	Transcriptional adaptation after deletion of Cdc42 in primary T cells	CDC42, CRISPR/Cas9, Rho GTPase, T cell, Transcriptional adaptation	Cdc42 is a Rho family GTPase known for its central role in cell polarity and cytoskeletal regulation. To understand the role of Cdc42 in polarised secretion from cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) we used CRISPR/Cas9 gene deletion. While Cdc42-deleted CTLs initially showed reduced secretion for up to two days after CRISPR-mediated deletion, full secretion was rapidly restored and even enhanced while CDC42 protein remained absent. In contrast, chemical inhibition of CDC42 using CASIN consistently decreased secretion in wild-type cells, but had no impact on Cdc42-deleted CTLs, confirming the specificity of this inhibitor. Comparative proteomics and transcriptomics of CTLs after Cdc42-deletion revealed transcriptional changes that could support improved T cell function including compensation via other Rho GTPases. Targeting the promoter region of Cdc42 did not trigger transcriptional adaptation, consistent with a nonsense-mediated decay mechanism of genetic compensation. Our work highlights the importance of taking orthogonal approaches to study protein function, and reveals the remarkable robustness of primary T cells to adapt to loss of an essential gene.
PXD058288	40613708	The inflammasome sensor NLRP3 interacts with REV7 to maintain genome integrity through homologous recombination. 	MS-based proteomic identification of NLRP3 binding partners in HeLa cells	DNA double strand break, NLRP3, co-immunoprecipitation, inflammasome, nanoLC-MS/MS	DNA double-strand break (DSB) is a highly toxic lesion that can generate genome instability, a major source of tumorigenesis. DSBs are mainly repaired by non-homologous end joining (NHEJ) or homologous recombination (HR). The selection of the DSB repair pathway primarily depends on the DNA resection of the DSB ends. Indeed, HR is initiated by resection at the DSB, generating 3' single-stranded overhang. The shieldin complex prevents resection fostering DSB repair toward NHEJ. Here, we reveal that the inflammasome sensor NLRP3 facilitates DNA end resection to promote the HR pathway in an inflammasome-independent manner. Strikingly, NLRP3 silencing decreases HR efficiency, as evidenced by RAD51 foci and functional HR assays. Mechanistically, we describe that NLRP3 interacts with REV7, a subunit of the shieldin complex, and its depletion increases REV7 recruitment to IR-induced DSBs. Similar to cancer cells harboring HR-mutated genes, we find that NLRP3-deficient cells are sensitive to Poly-ADP-ribose polymerase (PARP) inhibitors (PARPi) and exhibit an epistatic relationship with BRCA1 deficiency. Remarkably, loss of REV7 in NLRP3-depleted cells induces PARPi resistance by restoring HR. This study unravels the crucial role of the innate immune receptor NLRP3 in regulating the selection of DSB repair pathways to maintain genome integrity.
PXD054409	40614171	Plasma Proteomic Profiling of a Group of Anxious Dogs by LC-MS/MS: A Case-Control Study. 	Proteomic profiling of dogs diagnosed with anxiety disorder	Dog, animal behavior, anxiety, plasma, veterinary science	PURPOSE: Anxiety is the most common underlying cause of behavioral problems in dogs, which remain a top reason for relinquishment and euthanasia. Despite its high prevalence, anxiety is often underdiagnosed, partly due to a limited understanding of biological processes and absence of diagnostic biomarkers. Our study aims to address this knowledge gap. EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN: Plasma from 10 anxious and 10 matched control dogs were analyzed following a label-free quantitation proteomics workflow based on data-dependent acquisition using a Thermo Q Exactive Plus coupled to an EASY-nLC 1200, Vanquish UHPLC, or Evosep One. Data were processed with Proteome Discoverer 2.4 (Thermo), Perseus (Max Planck Institute), Cytoscape and other bioinformatic tools. RESULTS: Between 279 and 350 proteins were identified, and proteins such as fibrinogen, apolipoproteins, and complement system and coagulation cascade proteins were significantly different between groups. Additionally, we identified two putative subgroups of anxious dogs, suggesting potentially different underlying pathophysiological mechanisms for a single anxiety phenotype. CONCLUSIONS AND CLINICAL RELEVANCE: To our knowledge, this is the first comprehensive clinical in-depth proteomic profiling of plasma from anxious dogs. Our findings lay the foundation for elucidating the pathophysiology of canine anxiety and for the future validation and establishment of novel candidate biomarkers for disease diagnosis. Novel biomarkers would allow for a more effective and objective diagnosis of anxiety, even when not phenotypically apparent. SUMMARY: Previous mass spectrometry (MS) studies have found proteomic profile differences in other diseases and other animal species. This is to our knowledge, the first unbiased and comprehensive clinical in-depth proteomic profiling of plasma from dogs suffering from anxiety disorders. These findings have an impact on animal health as they set the foundation to elucidate the pathophysiology of canine anxiety so that in the future novel candidate biomarkers can be established and validated, furthering the potential development of new drugs and guiding patient-specific therapeutic interventions based on biomarker profiles. In the clinic, novel biomarkers could allow for a more effective and objective diagnosis of anxiety disorders, even when not phenotypically apparent. Detection and measurement of early stages of anxiety disorders as well as treatment monitoring in pet dogs would allow patients to be treated quicker, before the potential onset of aggression, and a faster recovery, thus improving the welfare of companion animals.
PXD051886	40614722	Condensin II activation by M18BP1. 	Condensin II Activation by the centromeric protein M18BP1	condensin, crosslinking, cryo-em, m18bp1, sda, sulfo-sda, xl-ms	Condensin I and II promote the drastic spatial rearrangement of the human genome upon mitotic entry. While condensin II is known to initiate this process in early mitosis, what triggers its activation and loading onto chromatin at this juncture remains unclear. Through genetic and proteomic approaches, we identify MIS18-binding protein 1 (M18BP1), a protein required to maintain centromere identity, as the elusive factor required for condensin II localization to chromatin. M18BP1 directly binds condensin II's CAP-G2 subunit. The condensin II antagonist MCPH1 also binds to CAP-G2 and outcompetes M18BP1 during interphase to maintain the genome in its uncondensed state. A switch from MCPH1 to M18BP1 at mitotic onset activates condensin II, thus promoting proper chromosome condensation. Regulation of this M18BP1-condensin interaction thus determines both the uncondensed state of the interphase genome and its compacted state in mitosis.
PXD063713	40615422	A plant bunyaviral protein disrupts SERRATE phase separation to modulate microRNA biogenesis during viral pathogenesis. 	immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry related to rice stripe virus SP	RSV SP	Liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS) regulates diverse biological functions by mediating the assembly of biomolecular condensates. However, it remains unclear how host LLPS is targeted by viruses during infection. Here we show that a plant bunyaviral protein, the disease-specific protein (SP) encoded by rice stripe virus (RSV), possesses phase separation potential through its N-terminal intrinsically disordered region 1 (IDR1). In vivo, however, SP does not form phase-separated biomolecular condensates independently but utilizes its phase separation properties to interfere with the phase separation of the SERRATE protein (SE), a key component of Dicing bodies essential for microRNA processing. By disrupting SE phase separation, SP inhibits D-body assembly and miRNA biogenesis. Our study demonstrates that a viral protein can modulate host microRNA processing by targeting LLPS, revealing a previously uncharacterized mechanism involved in viral infection strategies and miRNA biogenesis regulation in plants.
PXD063151	40617352	Polyamines stimulate the protein synthesis of the initiation factor eIF5A2 participating in mRNA decoding distinct from eIF5A1. 	Polyamines stimulate the protein synthesis of the initiation factor eIF5A2 participating in mRNA decoding distinct from eIF5A1	cell proliferation, eukaryotic initiation factor 5A (eIF5A), polyamine, spermidine	Polyamines are present in all living organisms, and their homeostasis is closely associated with human health and disease. Further, they are small aliphatic cations that exhibit multifunctional activities through interactions with acidic substances, thereby precluding our understanding of their molecular functions in biological processes. eIF5A1 and eIF5A2 share high amino acid sequence similarity, and hypusination, using spermidine, is essential for their functions. eIF5A1 is ubiquitously expressed in all tissues and is essential for normal cell growth, whereas eIF5A2 is often expressed in human cancer tissues; however, the functional differences between eIF5A1 and eIF5A2 remain unclear. Here, we found that eIF5A2 is regulated by polyamines at the translational level and that eIF5A2, rather than eIF5A1, is important for cancer cell growth. The translational initiation of eIF5A2 mRNA was negatively regulated by miR-6514-5p at the 5'-UTR, and polyamines inhibited this miRNA function, facilitating eIF5A2 synthesis. A proteomic analysis of cells with either eIF5A1 or eIF5A2 silenced showed distinct profiles. In addition, polyamines upregulated the expression of five ribosomal proteins, particularly RPS27A, RPL36A, and RPL22L1, which are associated with cancer malignancy. Our findings reveal an important role for eIF5A2, regulated by polyamines and miR-6514-5p, in cancer cell proliferation, suggesting that the interaction between eIF5A2 and ribosomes, which regulate cancer progression, is a selective target for cancer treatment.
PXD063968	40617815	DSS1 is required for proper Integrator-PP2A function. 	The small but versatile DSS1 protein is required for proper Integrator-PP2A function	DLD-1 cells,IP-LC/MS	Integrator-PP2A (INTAC) is a highly modular complex orchestrating the transition of paused RNA polymerase II into productive elongation or promoter-proximal premature termination, with its loss resulting in transcription dysregulation and genome instability. Here, we identify human DSS1-a flexible 70-residue protein found in multiple functionally diverse complexes including the 26S proteasome-as an integral subunit of the INTAC backbone. Structural analysis of DSS1-INTAC, both alone and in association with paused polymerase, demonstrates intimate interactions between DSS1 and the INTAC backbone. We identify tryptophan 39 of DSS1 as being critical for interacting with INTAC and find that its mutation disrupts DSS1's interaction with INTAC, while maintaining DSS1's interaction with the proteasome. This substitution not only impairs INTAC-dependent transcriptional regulation, but also reveals that INTAC is DSS1's major chromatin-bound form. Together, our findings reveal a role for DSS1 in supporting the structure and regulatory functions of INTAC.
PXD015498	40618317	Myocardial phosphoproteomics unveils a key role of DYRK1A in aortic valve replacement-induced reverse remodelling. 	Characterization of the human myocardial phosphoproteome in aortic stenosis patients with complete or incomplete reverse remodeling	aortic stenosis, myocardium, phosphoproteome, reverse remodeling	Aortic valve stenosis (AVS) is a growing healthcare burden. Aortic valve replacement (AVR) remains the only effective treatment to eliminate pressure overload and triggers myocardial reverse remodelling (RR), with regression of hypertrophy, fibrosis and diastolic function normalisation. However, many patients show an incomplete RR, being at higher risk of death. We aimed to uncover pathways and new therapeutic targets for incomplete RR through myocardial (phospho)proteomics. AVS patients were categorised based on left ventricle mass regression (LVM): complete RR (>= 15%) or incomplete RR (<= 5%). 83 myocardial proteins were dysregulated through LC-MS/MS. Gene ontology enrichment analysis identified inflammation, complement and immune system activation as priming events of an incomplete RR and a better mitochondrial function underscoring complete RR. Kinetic metabolic modelling corroborated the lower ATP production capacity of incomplete RR patients. To uncover therapeutic targets, kinases were predicted from phosphoproteome data. Casein kinase 2 and DYRK1A were among the most dysregulated kinases in RR. DYRK1A was found to be inversely correlated with LVM regression (r = - 0.62). DYRK1A functional role (passive, maximal tension and Ca(2+) sensitivity) was evaluated in skinned cardiomyocytes from Dyrk1a(+/-) mice and from AVS patients upon incubation with this kinase. Cardiomyocytes from mutant mice showed increased myofilamentary stiffness in response to stretch. Also, the raised myofilamentary stiffness of cardiomyocytes isolated from incomplete RR was normalised upon incubation with DYRK1A. Better myocardial bioenergetics may underscore a complete LVM regression. In turn, complement and immune-inflammatory pathways activation prime an incomplete response to AVR. DYRK1A emerges as a surrogate target to treat myocardial stiffness-driven diastolic dysfunction.
PXD059559	40620939	Evaluation of the Effects of Sumac () Extract-Loaded Ethosomes on an In Vitro Wound Healing Model. 	Evaluation of the Effects of Sumac (Rhus coriaria) Extract-Loaded Ethosomes on a Wound Healing in vitro Model	Anti-inflammation, Ethosomes, Sumac Extract, Wound healing	Wound healing involves a series of complex bioprocesses, including repairing skin damage, maintaining its barrier features, and preserving all other skin functions. Since the skin is the primary organ exposed to external factors, these bioprocesses can be interrupted by potential exogenous toxicants. Efforts to mitigate the effects of these toxicants can help accelerate the healing process, facilitating complete wound recovery. In this context, sumac () extract, rich in polyphenolics with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, can be exploited to overcome oxidant and inflammation-dependent burdens. Ethosomes, lipid-based intradermal delivery vehicles, have been selected for the delivery of sumac extract, as they enhance penetration through the skin layers. Considering their remarkable flexibility and deformability, ethosomes can minimize drug leakage even under harmful penetration conditions. Given the diverse bioactive content of sumac extract, ethosomes have been considered ideal for delivering both hydrophilic and lipophilic active compounds. Sumac extract (SuExt)-loaded ethosomes (SuExt-ethosomes) were therefore produced and characterized. These nanocarriers demonstrated significant cellular internalization and cytocompatibility in human dermal fibroblasts (HDFs), along with excellent antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity. A comprehensive investigation, supported by proteomic analysis, revealed that SuExt-ethosomes present promising wound healing potential, supporting future investigations in preclinical models.
PXD060743	40622454	Amniotic fluid reduces liver fibrosis by attenuating hepatic stellate cell activation. 	Amniotic Fluid Reduces Liver Fibrosis By Attenuating Hepatic Stellate Cell Activation	Amniotic Fluid, LCMS	Regardless of the source of injury or metabolic dysfunction, fibrosis is a frequent driver of liver pathology. Excessive liver fibrosis is caused by persistent activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs), which is defined by myofibroblast activation (MFA) and the epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT). Strategies to prevent or reverse this HSC phenotype will be critical for successful treatment of liver fibrosis. We have previously shown that full-term, cell-free human amniotic fluid (cfAF) inhibits MFA and EMT in fibroblasts in vitro. We hypothesize that cfAF treatment can attenuate HSC activation and limit liver fibrosis. We tested if cfAF could prevent liver fibrosis or HSC activation in murine models of liver damage, 3-dimensional hepatic spheroids, and HSC cultures. Administering cfAF prevented weight loss and the extent of fibrosis in mice with chronic liver damage without stimulating deleterious immune responses. Gene expression profiling and immunostaining indicated that cfAF administration in carbon tetrachloride-treated mice reduced EMT- and MFA-related biomarker abundance and modulated transcript levels associated with liver metabolism, immune regulatory pathways, and cell signaling. cfAF treatment lowered MFA biomarker levels in a dose-dependent manner in ex vivo hepatic spheroids. Treating HSCs with cfAF in vitro strongly repressed EMT. Multiomics analyses revealed that it also attenuates TGFbeta-induced MFA and inflammation-associated processes. Thus, cfAF treatment prevents liver fibrosis by safeguarding against persistent HSC activation. These findings suggest that cfAF may be a safe and effective therapy for reducing liver fibrosis and preventing the development of cirrhosis and/or hepatocellular carcinoma.
PXD059631	40622942	A Cyanobacterial Screening Platform for Rubisco Mutant Variants. 	A cyanobacterial screening platform for Rubisco mutant variants	Cyanobacteria, DIA, EncyclopeDIA, RuBisCO, Synechocystis PCC6803, carbon fixation, prosit	Rubisco is the main entry point of inorganic carbon into the biosphere and a central player in the global carbon system. The relatively low specific activity and tendency to accept O2 as a substrate have made Rubisco an attractive but challenging target for enzyme engineering. We have developed an enzyme engineering and screening platform for Rubisco using the model cyanobacterium Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. Starting with the Form II Rubisco from Gallionella, we first show that the enzyme can replace the native Form I Rubisco in Synechocystis and that growth rates become sensitive to CO2 and O2 levels. We address the challenge of designing a zero-shot input library of the Gallionella Rubisco, without prior experimental knowledge, by coupling the phylogenetically guided model EV mutation with "in silico evolution". This multisite mutagenesis library of Synechocystis (n = 16) was subjected to competitive growth in different gas feeds coupled to deep sequencing, in order to compare Rubisco variants. We identified an amino acid exchange that increased the thermostability of Gallionella Rubisco and conveyed resilience to otherwise detrimental amino acid exchanges. The platform is a first step toward high-throughput screening of Rubisco variants in Synechocystis and creating optimized enzyme variants to accelerate the Calvin-Benson-Bassham cycle in cyanobacteria and possibly chloroplasts.
PXD052078	40623650	Hypoxia promotes the generation of a versican-rich extracellular matrix by human coronary artery endothelial cells. 	Hypoxia promotes the generation of a versican-rich extracellular matrix by human coronary artery endothelial cells	ECM, Hypoxia	Normal endothelial cell (EC) function is essential for vascular wall homeostasis, whereas dysfunction increases the risk of cardiovascular disease. Low O2 tension (hypoxia) promotes EC dysfunction and the formation of atherosclerotic plaques. Increasing evidence suggests that hypoxia drives extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, an established contributing factor in atherosclerosis. However, the effects of hypoxia on ECs and associated ECM proteins are poorly understood. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the culture of human coronary artery ECs under 1% O2 (hypoxia) alters the ECM generated by these cells, and if this affects HCAEC function. Exposure of HCAECs to 1% O2 resulted in a hypoxic response (HIF-1alpha stabilization), dysfunction (increased oxidant formation and decreased eNOS), and inflammatory activation (increased IL-6 and ICAM-1 expression). Proteomic analysis of HCAECs cultured under 1% and 20% O2 for 7 days revealed many hypoxia-induced changes to extracellular proteins, particularly increased versican, a key ECM proteoglycan. Increased versican expression and deposition was confirmed at the mRNA and protein level, along with its glycosaminoglycan (chondroitin sulfate) chains and particularly 6-O-sulfated species. This versican-rich ECM showed increased hyaluronan binding and decreased cell adhesiveness, but attached cells proliferated at a greater rate. The generation of a versican-rich ECM under 1% O2 provides a link between hypoxia and atherosclerosis, since versican is reported to accumulate in plaques, where it binds and retains low-density lipoproteins and is involved in inflammatory cell recruitment, thereby potentiating low-density lipoprotein modification and the accumulation of lipid-laden (foam) cells.
PXD054642	40624002	RNA-binding protein YebC enhances translation of proline-rich amino acid stretches in bacteria. 	A novel RNA binding protein YebC enhances translation of proline-rich amino acid stretches in bacteria	RNA, RNA binding protein, RNA-Protein XL, Streptococcus pyogenes	The ribosome employs a set of highly conserved translation factors to efficiently synthesise proteins. Some translation factors interact with the ribosome in a transient manner and are thus challenging to identify. However, proteins involved in translation can be specifically identified by their interaction with ribosomal RNAs. Using a combination of proteomics approaches, we identified 30 previously uncharacterized RNA-binding proteins in the pathogenic bacterium Streptococcus pyogenes. One of these, a widely conserved protein YebC, was shown to transiently interact with 23S rRNA near the peptidyl-transferase centre. Deletion of yebC moderately affected the physiology and virulence of S. pyogenes. We performed ribosome profiling and detected increased pausing at proline-rich amino acid motifs in the absence of functional YebC. Further experiments in S. pyogenes and Salmonella Typhimurium and using an in vitro translation system suggested that YebC is a translation factor required for efficient translation of proteins with proline-rich motifs.
PXD058373	40624148	A translational protocol optimizes the isolation of plasma-derived extracellular vesicle proteomics. 	A translational protocol for the analysis of plasma-derived extracellular vesicle proteomics	Extracellular vesicles, liquid biopsy, plasma, preanalytics, protocol, translation	In translational research and clinical routine, liquid biopsy is a promising tool to direct individually targeted treatments. Among the components of liquid biopsy, extracellular vesicles (EVs) carry manyfold molecular cargo and are increasingly being studied for biomarker identification. In order to identify potential confounding factors and determine optimal conditions when studying blood-derived EV proteins, the impact of pre-analytical variables needs to be assessed. Here we establish an EV enrichment for proteomic analysis workflow in a real-world clinical setting in which we evaluate variables from blood collection through protein preparation and storage for mass spectrometry (MS). We assess hemolysis, particle concentration and size, protein quantity, protein markers and comprehensive proteomic analysis using mass spectrometry to assess the influence of different pre-analytical variables like blood collection tubes, transportation of blood samples and delayed processing. Under these conditions, density gradient and size exclusion chromatography using Sepharose CL-4B show good EV enrichment. For MS, lysis with increased protease inhibitors shows high protein yields while TCA protein precipitation results in high numbers of identified proteins. In summary, we develop here an optimized protocol for the analysis of plasma EV-derived proteomics, evaluating pre-analytical variables relevant for implementation in a clinical setting.
PXD062042	40624163	Structural basis of RECQL5-induced RNA polymerase II transcription braking and subsequent reactivation. 	RECQL5 and transcription-coupled DNA repair complex coordinate to regulate transcription elongation	RECQL5, Transcription, crosslinking	Abnormally fast transcription elongation can lead to detrimental consequences such as transcription-replication collisions, altered alternative splicing patterns and genome instability. Therefore, elongating RNA polymerase II (Pol II) requires mechanisms to slow its progression, yet the molecular basis of transcription braking remains unclear. RECQL5 is a DNA helicase that functions as a general elongation factor by slowing down Pol II. Here we report cryo-electron microscopy structures of human RECQL5 bound to multiple transcription elongation complexes. Combined with biochemical analysis, we identify an alpha-helix of RECQL5 responsible for binding Pol II and slowdown of transcription elongation. We further reveal that the transcription-coupled DNA repair (TCR) complex allows Pol II to overcome RECQL5-induced transcription braking through concerted actions of its translocase activity and competition with RECQL5 for engaging Pol II. Additionally, RECQL5 inhibits TCR-mediated Pol II ubiquitination to prevent activation of the DNA repair pathway. Our results suggest a model in which RECQL5 and the TCR complex coordinately regulate transcription elongation rates to ensure transcription efficiency while maintaining genome stability.
PXD064807	40624346	P300-dependent acetylation of the FOXQ1 complex activates super-enhancers to promote colorectal cancer proliferation and metastasis. 	The potential binding proteins of FOXQ1 were detected by mass spectrometry technology, laying the foundation for the subsequent in-depth study of its molecular mechanism	FOXQ1, potential binding proteins	The FOX transcription factor family plays a pivotal role in the malignant progression of tumors. We propose a hypothesis that FOXQ1 recruits p300 and BRD4 to super-enhancer regions. Our findings indicate that p300 acetylates Lys190 of FOXQ1, resulting in its recognition and binding by BRD4. Subsequently, BRD4 recruits RNA-Pol II to form a "FOXQ1-p300-BRD4-RNA Pol II" complex, which then binds to the super-enhancers of target genes. Meanwhile, acetylation at Lys190 of FOXQ1 directly enhances its binding affinity to super-enhancers. Consequently, more target oncogenes can be transcribed to promote CRC proliferation and metastasis. Our results suggest that FOXQ1 acts as a key regulator of super-enhancers, providing insights into its role in CRC and highlighting its potential as a therapeutic target.
PXD056789	40624587	Immunoglobulin A/PIGR axis as potential mediators of human abdominal aortic aneurysms revealed by topologically resolved proteomics. 	Human adventitial and medial layers from AAA aorta LC-MS/MS	AAA, aorta	BACKGROUND: Abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is an asymptomatic chronic disease of the aorta and its evolution is unpredictable. Despite the existence of several pathological mechanisms contributing to the dilation of the human AAA wall, there is currently no specific therapy to prevent the fatal rupture of the aorta. Our objective was to identify novel mediators and/or biomarkers involved in the instability of the aortic wall that could help to prevent AAA progression. METHODS: Multiplexed quantitative proteomic analysis of human AAA and healthy aortic wall (medial and adventitial layers) was performed. Results were subsequently validated by western blot and immunohistochemistry, as well as by turbidimetry/ELISA of tissue-conditioned media. In addition, immunoglobulins A1 and A2 (IGA1 and IGA2) plasma levels were analyzed by turbidimetry in a pilot study [controls (n = 22) and AAA patients (n = 22)] and in a validation study with a 6-year follow-up [controls (n = 64) and AAA patients (n = 189)]. In vitro experiments were performed in THP-1-derived macrophages (basal or polarized to M1 or M2). Polymeric immunoglobulin receptor (PIGR) mRNA expression and secretion in macrophages were analyzed by Q-PCR and ELISA, respectively. Finally, the hematopoietic contribution of PIGR was assessed in experimental AAA (Ldlr(-/-) mice fed an atherogenic diet and 1 mug/Kg/min angiotensin II infusion for 28 days) by bone marrow transplantation experiments. RESULTS: Functional analysis of biological pathways altered in human AAA wall revealed a significant upregulation of components of the adaptive immune response, including IGHA1 and IGHA2, as well as the IGA receptor, PIGR. In addition, IGA2, but not IGA1, plasma levels were significantly increased in a pilot study of AAA patients relative to controls (489 +/- 38 vs 344 +/- 36 mg/L, p < 0.01). This finding was further validated in a larger cohort, confirming the association of IGA2 with AAA presence independent of risk factors and treatments [OR = 2.140 (1.109-4.130), P < 0.05]. Furthermore, in the validation cohort, elevated IGA2 plasma levels were independently associated with AAA progression [HR = 1.941 (1.108-3.399), p < 0.05]. PIGR colocalized with macrophages in the AAA wall and, PIGR mRNA levels were increased following the differentiation of THP-1 monocytes into macrophages, as well as in M1-polarized THP-1 macrophages compared to M2 macrophages. Pigr deficiency in hematopoietic cells resulted in a significantly reduced AAA incidence (14 vs 57%) and decreased macrophage infiltration (3.5 +/- 0.5 vs 5.6 +/- 0.7%). CONCLUSIONS: Increased IGA and PIGR is observed in the AAA wall. Pigr deficiency in hematopoietic cells decreases AAA progression, suggesting a therapeutic role for PIGR in AAA.
PXD059781	40624762	E3-Ubiquitin Ligase SgATL31 Promotes Anthracnose Resistance in Stylosanthes by Modulating ROS Burst and Antioxidant Defence: A Proteomic and Functional Study. 	Phosphoproteomic analysis of resistant and susceptible stylo against C. gloeosporioides	Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, Stylosanthes, evaluation of disease-resistant resources, phosphoproteomics	Stylosanthes spp. (stylo) is an important leguminous forage cultivated in tropical areas. Anthracnose caused by Colletotrichum gloeosporioides is a destructive disease that limits the yield of stylo. Therefore, improving the resistance of stylo is crucial to control stylo anthracnose. In this study, the resistance evaluation of 40 Chinese stylo accessions was performed, including the main cultivar Stylosanthes guianensis 'Reyan No. 2' (RY2) as a susceptible control. Twelve stylo accessions were rated as highly resistant, with 2001-84 showing the strongest resistance. Compared to RY2, 2001-84 exhibited significantly milder disease symptoms, slower fungal colonisation, and higher pathogen-induced antioxidant enzyme activities. Integrated phosphoproteomics and plasma membrane (PM) enriched proteomics of both RY2 and 2001-84 revealed that pathogen-responsive proteins were predominantly associated with kinase signalling, transport processes, and oxidoreductase activity. A PM-localised E3 ubiquitin ligase, SgATL31, was identified as increasing in response to pathogen in both proteomic analyses. Functional characterisation demonstrated that SgATL31 overexpression in Arabidopsis enhanced resistance to C. gloeosporioides, promoted chitin-induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production in both Arabidopsis and stylo protoplasts, and increased antioxidant enzyme activities following pathogen infection. Furthermore, the expression levels of SgATL31 were induced by pathogen infection in all 40 stylo accessions and accumulated to higher levels in resistant accessions. Overall, our findings not only identify 2001-84 as a valuable genetic resource for anthracnose resistance but also establish SgATL31 as a regulator of plant immunity against anthracnose, potentially through modulation of ROS and antioxidant pathways, providing important insights for improving disease resistance in stylo.
PXD064588	40626023	Developing a molecular diagnostic model for heatstroke-induced coagulopathy: a proteomics and metabolomics approach. 	Proteomic profiling of heat illness pateiens	heat illness	Background: Heatstroke (HS) is becoming more concerning, with coagulopathy contributing to higher mortality. The aim of this study was to analyze the metabolomic and proteomic profiles associated with heatstroke-induced coagulopathy (HSIC) and to develop a molecular diagnostic model based on proteomic and metabolomic patterns. Methods: This study included 41 HS patients from the Department of Critical Care Medicine at a comprehensive teaching hospital. Plasma proteins and metabolites from HSIC and non-heatstroke-induced coagulopathy (NHSIC) patients were compared using LC-MS/MS. Multivariate and univariate statistical analyses identified differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) and metabolites (DEMs). Functional annotation and pathway enrichment analyses were performed using the GO and KEGG databases, and machine learning models were developed using candidate proteins selected by LASSO and Boruta algorithms to diagnose HSIC. Finally, bioinformatic analysis was used to integrate the results of proteomics and metabolomics to find the potential mechanisms of HSIC. Results: A total of 41 patients participated in the study, with 11 cases in the HSIC group and 30 cases in the NHSIC group. Significant differences were observed between the groups in temperature, heart rate, white blood cell count, platelet count, liver function, coagulation markers, APACHE II score, and GCS score. Survival analysis revealed that the heatstroke group had a higher mortality risk. A total of 125 DEPs and 110 DEMs were identified, primarily enriched in energy regulation-related pathways and lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. Additionally, three optimal predictive models (AUC >0.9) were developed and validated for classifying HSIC from HS individuals based on proteomic patterns and machine learning, with the logistic regression model showing the best diagnostic performance (AUC = 0.979, sensitivity = 81.8%, specificity = 96.7%), highlighting lactate dehydrogenase A chain (LDHA), neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin (NGAL), prothrombin and glucan-branching enzyme (GBE) as key predictors of HSIC. Conclusion: The study uncovered critical metabolic and protein changes linked to heatstroke, highlighting the involvement of energy regulation, lipid metabolism, and carbohydrate metabolism. Building on these findings, an optimal machine learning diagnostic model was developed to boost the accuracy of HSIC diagnosis, integrating LDHA, NGAL, prothrombin, and GBE as key biomarkers.
PXD056446	40626560	BTG3-dependent VCP/p97 nuclear translocation is required for efficient repair of UV-induced DNA lesions. 	BTG3-dependent VCP/p97 nuclear translocation is required for efficient repair of UV-induced DNA lesions	phosphorylation	Skin exposure to UV rays from sunlight results in the formation of mutagenic DNA photolesions that are repaired by the nucleotide excision repair (NER) machinery. The inefficient repair of photolesions can lead to stalled DNA replication and mispairing, thereby causing strand breaks and mutations. B-cell translocation gene 3 (BTG3) is expressed in the epidermis of the skin and is an antiproliferative gene upregulated in human keratinocytes after radiation injury. In this study, we found that BTG3 is required to promote the timely extraction of the lesion-binding protein XPC by the segregase VCP/p97, an essential step preceding the excision of photolesions. Mechanistically, we showed that BTG3-dependent CHK1 activation and phosphorylation of VCP/p97 at S775 are necessary for the nuclear translocation of VCP/p97 after UV irradiation. Thus, loss of BTG3 or inhibition of CHK1 results in cytoplasmic retention of VCP/p97 and accumulation of ubiquitinated XPC, leading to delayed removal of photolesions and inefficient NER, which was recapitulated in vivo in the skin of the Btg3 knockout mice showing increased photolesions and gammaH2AX and elevated mutations after UV. Our findings revealed that by influencing the cellular localization of VCP/p97, BTG3 is critical for the proper execution of NER to protect cells from UV-induced damage and skin carcinogenesis.
PXD063711	40626561	Global analysis of the Hfq-mediated RNA interactome discovers a MicA homolog that affects the cytotoxicity, biofilm formation, and resistance to complement of Bordetella pertussis. 	Global analysis of the Hfq-mediated RNA interactome discovers a MicA homolog of Bordetella pertussis	Bordetella pertussis, RIL-seq, biofilm, omics analysis, outer membrane, sRNA	Bordetella pertussis is a Gram-negative, strictly human re-emerging respiratory pathogen and the causative agent of whooping cough. The requirement of the RNA chaperone Hfq for the virulence of B. pertussis suggests that Hfq-dependent small regulatory RNAs (sRNAs) are involved in the virulence of this pathogen. To identify their potential mRNA targets, we applied a method combining experimental and computational approaches called RIL-seq. The majority of putative mRNA targets, including several virulence factors, interact with two sRNAs, CT_433 and CT_521, suggesting that these sRNAs may represent central riboregulatory nodes of B. pertussis. Furthermore, our data suggest that CT_532 sRNA can base pair with the 5'UTR region of ompA mRNA encoding outer membrane protein BP0943 (OmpA) and that CT_532, RNase III and Hfq are involved in the control of ompA expression. The CT_532 sRNA shares 60% identity with the E. coli sRNA MicA and its expression is also modulated by Hfq and stress conditions such as heat and cold shocks. Overall, these results suggest that CT_532 represents a MicA homolog. Importantly, the mutant lacking the first 22 nucleotides of CT_532 exhibits reduced cytotoxicity towards human macrophages and impaired biofilm production but increased resistance to complement compared to the wild type strain.
PXD061454	40626562	A cancer persistent DNA repair circuit driven by MDM2, MDM4 (MDMX), and mutant p53 for recruitment of MDC1 and 53BP1 on chromatin. 	MDM2 influenced chromatin-associated phospho-peptides in T47D cells	53BP1, MDM2, chromatin-associated, phospho-peptides	DNA damage signaling requires functional interactions between 53BP1 and the wild-type p53 tumor suppressor. Cancer cells often express elevated levels of transcriptionally inactive mutant p53 (mtp53) that maintains MDM2 and MDMX (MDM4) binding partners. The ability of mtp53 to functionally interact with additional proteins in the context of a dynamic equilibrium with MDM2-MDMX heterodimers has not been described. Employing a stable isotope labeling in cell culture analysis in T47D breast cancer cells (expressing mtp53 L194F), we uncovered several chromatin-associated DNA replication and repair factors as MDM2-regulated phosphoproteins, including 53BP1. We used proximity ligation analysis in multiple breast cancer cell lines to confirm 53BP1-MDM2 complex formation. We demonstrated that a mtp53-MDM2/MDMX complex promoted 53BP1-MDC1 interactions by showing that mtp53-MDM2/MDMX complex disruptors, Nutlin 3a and ALRN-6924, reduced the 53BP1-MDC1 nuclear interactions (especially in S-phase). Surprisingly, these MDM2-driven MDC1-53BP1 interactions were not ATM dependent, suggesting distinct 53BP1-MDC1 complexes in response to genotoxic stress. We found that MDM2-deficient cells have increased poly-ADP-ribosylation on chromatin which supports the possibility that a mtp53-MDM2/MDMX pathway promotes aberrant DNA repair. Taken together, our data suggest that a mtp53-MDM2/MDMX complex orchestrates DNA repair machinery activity on chromatin, thus priming cancer cells for persistent DNA damage repair (CPR).
PXD031789	40626671	Histological and proteomic characterization of musculoskeletal amyloidomas. 	HISTOLOGICAL AND PROTEOMIC CHARACTERIZATION OF MUSCULOSKELETAL AMYLOIDOMAS	amyloidoma	Introduction: The term amyloidoma applies to localized deposits of amyloid in the absence of systemic amyloidosis. Skeletal and soft tissue amyloidomas are very rare and the pathogenesis is usually associated with lymphoproliferative disorders (plasmacytomas or plasmacytoid lymphomas) or as a consequence of local chronic inflammation. Methods: In this paper we report the histological and immunohistochemical features of four cases of musculoskeletal amyloidoma in association with combined laser capture microdissection (LCM) of Congo Red positive regions with a recent microproteomics workflow that improves the sensitivity of the analysis in order to confirm the nature of the protein deposit. Results: Proteomic techniques allowed to elucidate the nature of the amyloid protein deposit, improving the results obtained by immunohistochemistry (IHC). IHC results were confirmed in two cases while LCM coupled with bottom-up microproteomics was necessary to type the other two cases, for which IHC was inconclusive. Conclusions: In conclusion, proteomic techniques were thus confirmed as a fundamental tool for the complete investigation of protein deposits.
PXD060837	40626778	High enzyme promiscuity in lignin degradation mechanisms in Rhodopseudomonas palustris CGA009. 	High Enzyme Promiscuity in Lignin Degradation Mechanisms in Rhodopseudomonas palustris CGA009	Rhodopseudomonas palustris, label-free	Lignin is a universal waste product of the agricultural industry and is currently seen as a potential feedstock for more sustainable manufacturing. While it is the second most abundant biopolymer in the world, most of it is currently burned as it is a very recalcitrant material. Many recent studies, however, have demonstrated the viability of biocatalysis to improve the value of this feedstock and convert it into more useful chemicals, such as polyhydroxybutyrate, and clean fuels like hydrogen and n-butanol. Rhodopseudomonas palustris is a gram-negative bacterium that demonstrates a plethora of desirable metabolic capabilities, including aromatic catabolism useful for lignin degradation. This study uses a multi-omics approach, including the first usage of CRISPRi in R. palustris, to investigate the lignin consumption mechanisms of R. palustris, the essentiality of redox homeostasis to lignin consumption, elucidate a potential lignin catabolic superpathway, and enable more economically viable, sustainable lignin valorization processes.IMPORTANCEAs lignin constitutes roughly 30% of all plant biomass and is typically treated as a waste product by various agricultural sectors, there is a large market potential for the utilization of this material. This study reveals a set of enzymes used by Rhodopseudomonas palustris, which can break down each type of lignin (H, G, and S) indiscriminately. We utilize a multi-omics approach in which R. palustris' transcript, protein, and targeted metabolite profiles are analyzed when R. palustris is fed with each monolignol and some acid derivatives. We also investigate the hypothesis that ligninolysis is not limited by catabolic enzyme abundance, but rather by maintaining redox balance within the cell. To do this, we demonstrate the first application of CRISPRi in R. palustris, where a vector with a dCas9 gene knocks down the expression levels of targeted genes.
PXD059147	40628700	Defining the cellular and molecular features of nerve-invaded cancer cells using a newly characterized experimental model. 	Molecular characterization of perineural invasion-competent cancer cells using a novel in vitro model	Perineural invasion, breast cancer, cancer neuroscience, cancer recurrence, metastasis., prostate cancer	Perineural invasion (PNI) is the invasion of cancer cells into nerves. Although PNI is a risk factor for cancer recurrence and metastasis, the lack of in vitro experimental models representing natural PNI challenges basic studies and therapeutic screening. In this work, we fully characterized a dorsal root ganglia (DRG)-nerve explant model for PNI and demonstrated the characteristic cellular and molecular features of cancer cells undergoing natural PNI. Briefly, thoracic and lumbar DRGs intactly connected to nerves were co-cultured with breast and prostate cancer cells in a 3D matrix for two weeks. Time-dependent brightfield and fluorescence imaging captured the complex interactions of cancer cells, neurons, axons, and Schwann cells within nerves in the DRG-nerve preparation, demonstrating the natural invasion of cancer cells. Fundamental investigations showed that the autonomic neurotransmitters norepinephrine and acetylcholine significantly promote PNI. We also demonstrated increased survival of PNI cells in response to the treatment with the cytotoxic drug cisplatin. Additionally, we characterized the proteomics profile of PNI cells for future theranostics applications and validated the results using patient breast tumor samples. Overall, this work characterized and established a clinically relevant model for PNI and revealed the cellular crosstalk of PNI cells within nerves. The established model is suitable for fundamental studies and therapeutic screening pertaining to PNI.
PXD054641	40629079	AVJ16 inhibits lung carcinoma by targeting IGF2BP1. 	Human H1299 lung carcinoma cells treated with AVJ16 or DMSO (vehicle)	AVJ16, H1299, Igf2bp1 small molecule inhibitor	IGF2BP1 is an oncofoetal RNA binding protein (RBP) expressed in many tumors. Interest has focused of late on the role of RBPs in cancer, although their mechanism of action is not always well understood. Using a newly described small molecule inhibitor of IGF2BP1, termed AVJ16, we have analyzed the effects of this inhibition on RNA binding, RNA expression, and protein expression. AVJ16 treatment downregulates RNAs encoding members of several pro-oncogenic signaling pathways, including Hedgehog, Wnt, and PI3K-Akt, and there is a strong correlation between IGF2BP1 RNA binding, RNA expression, and protein expression. At the cellular level, colony formation, invasion, and spheroid growth are all strongly reduced by exposure to AVJ16, while apoptosis and cell death are enhanced. All of these effects are limited to cells expressing IGF2BP1. In syngeneic LUAD xenografts in mice, IP injection of AVJ16 prevents tumor growth, and incubation with AVJ16 induces cell death in human organoids derived from IGF2BP1-expressing LUADs but not from healthy lung tissue. These results demonstrate that AVJ16 is a promising candidate for targeted therapy directed against tumors expressing IGF2BP1. Please use revised graphical abstract that I uploaded - we found a slight mistake in the original one.
PXD057911	40629272	Plasma exosomes in insulin resistant obesity exacerbate progression of triple negative breast cancer. 	Plasma Exosomes in Insulin Resistant Obesity Exacerbate Progression of  Triple Negative Breast Cancer	Exosomes, Insulin Resistance, Obesity, Triple Negative Breast Cancer	Breast cancer, the most common cancer among women worldwide, continues to pose significant public health challenges. Among the subtypes of breast cancer, triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) is particularly aggressive and difficult to treat due to the absence of receptors for estrogen, progesterone, or human epidermal growth factor receptor 2, rendering TNBC refractory to conventional targeted therapies. Emerging research underscores the exacerbating role of metabolic disorders, such as type 2 diabetes and obesity, on TNBC aggressiveness. Here, we investigate the critical cellular and molecular factors underlying this link. We explore the pivotal role of circulating plasma exosomes in modulating the tumor microenvironment and enhancing TNBC aggressiveness. We find that plasma exosomes from diet-induced obesity mice induce epithelial-mesenchymal transition features in TNBC cells, leading to increased migration in vitro and enhanced metastasis in vivo. We build on our previous reports demonstrating that plasma exosomes from obese, diabetic patients, and exosomes from insulin-resistant 3T3-L1 adipocytes, upregulate key transcriptional signatures of epithelial-mesenchymal transition in breast cancer. Bioinformatic analysis reveals that TNBC cells exhibit higher expression and activation of proteins related to the Rho-GTPase cascade, particularly the small Ras-related protein Rac1. Our approach suggests novel therapeutic targets and exosomal biomarkers, ultimately to improve prognosis for TNBC patients with co-morbid metabolic disorders.
PXD056546	40629482	Proteomic profiling of dysbiosis-challenged broilers reveals potential blood biomarkers for intestinal health. 	Proteomic Profiling of Dysbiosis-Challenged Broilers: Blood Biomarkers for Intestinal Health	Blood biomarkers, broiler chicken, dysbiosis, gut health, intestinal permeability	The intestinal microbiome forms a dynamic ecosystem whose balanced composition and functioning are essential for maintaining overall gut health and well-being in living organisms. In broilers, dysbiosis disrupts the microbiota-host balance, often without obvious clinical symptoms but with intestinal inflammation, and leads to impaired animal performance. This study aimed to identify host blood-based protein biomarkers that indicate intestinal inflammation and intestinal barrier dysfunction. Using mass spectrometry-based proteomics, blood plasma samples from broilers derived from an in vivo dysbiosis model were analyzed and compared to healthy controls. Microscopic histologic changes in the gut (shortened villi, increased crypt depth) were observed in the duodenal and jejunal tissue of 25-days old challenged birds. Elevated levels of permeability markers faecal ovotransferrin and serum iohexol additionally indicated increased intestinal leakage in the challenged group. The blood plasma proteome analysis enabled quantification of 388 proteins, 25 of which were significantly different between the tested groups. The challenge was marked by activation of immune and signaling pathways, and response to bacteria, while proteins related to cellular physiology, cell-cell communication, and extracellular matrix (ECM) processes were suppressed. Protein-protein interaction analysis revealed two clusters of downregulated proteins involved in ECM organization and cell adhesion. Intestinal dysbiosis in broilers demonstrated that the host prioritizes immune defense over structural maintenance. The activation of immune processes and suppression of ECM pathways highlight potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD056546.
PXD058046	40633352	Identification of uranyl-binding proteins in Arabidopsis thaliana cells exposed to uranium: Insights from a metalloproteomic analysis and characterization of Glycine-Rich RNA-binding protein 7 (GRP7). 	Identification of in cellulo Uranyl-Binding Proteins in Arabidopsis Cells	metalloproteomics, nanoLC-MS/MS, uranium-binding proteins	Uranium (U) is a naturally occurring radionuclide that poses chemotoxic threats to living organisms, including plants. Despite its environmental relevance, the molecular mechanisms underlying U toxicity in plant cells are not well understood. In this study, we used an integrative metalloproteomic strategy integrating chromatographic fractionation with high-resolution proteomics and inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry to identify cellular protein targets of uranyl (U(VI)) in cultured Arabidopsis thaliana cells. This approach led to the identification of 57 candidate U-binding proteins, suggesting a broad potential for U-protein interactions in plant systems. Among these, the Glycine-Rich RNA-binding Protein 7 (GRP7), a multifunctional protein implicated in RNA processing, stress responses, and circadian regulation, emerged as a particularly compelling candidate. We purified recombinant GRP7 and demonstrated its ability to bind U(VI) with a 1:2 (protein:metal) stoichiometry in vitro. Structural investigation using solution-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy revealed the dynamic nature of the interaction and pinpointed specific residues involved in U(VI) coordination at two distinct sites. Importantly, we showed that U(VI) binding disrupts the RNA-binding function of GRP7, suggesting a molecular mechanism by which U exposure may impair gene regulation in plants. These findings provide the first detailed molecular insight into U-protein interaction in plants and suggest that GRP7 may play a critical role in mediating U-induced toxicity through interference with RNA metabolism. This work paves the way for future studies on U toxicity and tolerance in plants, with potential implications for environmental risk assessment and phytoremediation strategies.
PXD063231	40633766	Nup93-Mediated RNA Alternative Splicing Associated with Diabetic Atherosclerosis. 	Spatial Proteomics Profiling of Vascular Smooth Muscle Cells and Atherosclerotic Plaques in a Diabetic Atherosclerosis Mouse Model	Atherosclerosis, Diabetes mellitus, Spatial proteomic technology	Atherosclerosis, a life-threatening complication of diabetes mellitus (DM), significantly increases the mortality risk among diabetic patients. Vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) not only constitute the core of atherosclerotic lesions but also serve as primary components of plaques. Although diabetes expedites this transformation process, the specific mechanism remains elusive. Traditional proteomic approaches that analyse average signals of all cells overlook the importance of spatial information, even though different cells within the same tissue exhibit distinct molecular characteristics during various stages of atherosclerosis progression. In this study, we employed spatial proteomic technology to comprehensively analyse proteins in vascular smooth muscle tissues and atherosclerotic plaques obtained from a mice model of atherosclerosis and DM complicated with arteriosclerosis. We also employed RNA sequencing technology to further investigate the changes in RNA alternative splicing in atherosclerosis and DM complicated with arteriosclerosis cell models. Our finding revealed the reduced expression of Nup93 within VSMCs under combined high glucose and ox-LDL stimulation, mimicking diabetic atherosclerotic stress. This reduction impairs the nuclear import of splicing regulators SRSF1 and SRSF3, leading to abnormal alternative splicing of SerpinE2, which in turn enhances its mRNA stability and promotes VSMCs proliferation. These results reveal a novel mechanistic axis whereby diabetic atherosclerotic stress drives VSMCs dysfunction through Nup93-mediated splicing dysregulation, offering new molecular targets for the treatment of diabetes-associated atherosclerosis.
PXD065198	40634337	Host protein ARF1 is a proviral factor for SARS-CoV-2 and a candidate broad-spectrum therapeutic target. 	The Interactome of SARS-CoV-2 Membrane protein	Interactome, Membrane, SARS-CoV-2	SARS-CoV-2 and its emerging variants pose continuing threats to public health. SARS-CoV-2 assembles at the ER-Golgi intermediate compartment (ERGIC), where the viral membrane (M) protein highly accumulates to act as the central driver. However, how M is concentrated in the ERGIC, which hosts factor(s), may be involved, and whether they could be exploited as broad-spectrum antiviral targets remains unclear. Here, we identify an M-interacting host protein, ARF1, as a proviral factor that bolsters the propagation of SARS-CoV-2 and its variants in cultured cells and the viral infection and pathogenicity in female K18-hACE2 mice. By its N-terminal helix, ARF1 interacts with M and facilitates M's ERGIC accumulation and thus M-driven virion production. Consistently, pharmacological ARF1 inhibition by small molecules disrupts both ARF1 and M concentration at the ERGIC, blocking virion assembly and propagation. Furthermore, a designed peptide mimicking the M-targeted motif of ARF1 competitively blocks M-ARF1 interaction, M accumulation at the ERGIC, and viral assembly and propagation in vitro. Moreover, the peptidomimetic inhibitor exhibits therapeutic efficacy against SARS-CoV-2 infection and pathogenicity in vivo. These findings provide critical insights into the basic biology of SARS-CoV-2 and demonstrate the potential to develop pan-SARS-CoV-2 therapeutics by targeting ARF1 and/or the ARF1-M interaction interface.
PXD062940	40634532	Comprehensive characterization of chronic midazolam exposure on neonates and long-term neurodevelopment. 	Chronic Midazolam Exposure on Neonates and Long-Term Neurodevelopment	Midazolam, Neurodevelopment	Approximately 1 in 10 U.S. newborns are born preterm (<37 weeks of gestation), facing risks of low birth weight, respiratory and birth deficits often requiring surgery, mechanical ventilation, and prolonged sedation. Such long-term exposure to sedatives in these babies can potentially pose neurodevelopmental risks and can further impact changes later in life. The present study focused on midazolam (MDZ), a benzodiazepine class drug commonly used as sedative in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). Using a robust preclinical rodent model mimicking chronic MDZ exposure, we did a comprehensive characterization on the phenotypic, molecular, biochemical, and behavioral outcomes in these exposed neonates across key developmental milestones. Our findings indicate that long-term MDZ exposure during the neonatal period negatively affects physical attributes in early childhood. While adult bodyweights between control and MDZ-exposed rats remain comparable, the MDZ rats exhibit accelerated and robust weight gain, potentially indicating a predisposition for binge eating behavior. Additionally, dopamine release in MDZ-exposed rats is markedly reduced in adulthood. Elevated levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and growth factors in the brain during adulthood suggest a shift in development due to early MDZ exposure. Further, trends of heightened anxiety-like behavior and reduced social interaction during early adolescence compared to other stages were observed. Collectively, our study provides a comprehensive assessment of how long-term MDZ exposure during neonatal stages impacts outcomes throughout life, laying the foundation for understanding mechanisms that contribute to neurodevelopmental complications associated with long-term MDZ use in neonates.
PXD059134	40636284	Depletion of Fat Mass and Obesity-Associated Protein (FTO) Drives Heterochromatin Loss via Lysine Acetyltransferase 8 (KAT8)-Mediated Remodeling and Spacing Factor 1 (RSF1) Acetylation in Skin Aging. 	Proteomic data of Fto-depleted skin and the control skin	Fto, Proteomic analysis, skin	N6-methyladenosine (m6A), as the most common RNA modification at the post-transcriptional level, plays a role in various pathophysiological processes. However, its underlying mechanism in skin aging remains enigmatic. Here, we identified that fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO) serves as a protective factor against skin aging. FTO expression is downregulated in aging skin tissues and senescent fibroblasts. Furthermore, the depletion or inhibition of FTO exacerbates dermal fibroblasts senescence and accelerates skin aging. Additionally, RNA-seq combined with MeRIP-seq revealed that lysine acetyltransferase 8 (KAT8) is the downstream target of FTO. FTO deficiency leads to an increase in m6A levels and a decrease in mRNA stability of KAT8 in a m6A-YTHDF2-dependent manner. Notably, our integrated analysis of m6A sequencing and acetylation proteomics links changes in heterochromatin structure with aging. Mechanistically, KAT8 depletion leads to heterochromatin loss and the subsequent aging by acetylating remodeling and spacing factor 1 (RSF1) at K1050. Overall, our finding reveals a pivotal role of FTO-mediated m6A modification in the skin aging by regulating KAT8/RSF1-involved heterochromatin formation. It provides new insights into the mechanisms and strategies for delaying aging and improving healthspan.
PXD043091	40636322	Dynamic forces shape the survival fate of eliminated cells. 	Differential regulation of proteins upon E-cadherin loss of function	E-cadherin, EMT, MDCK, adherens junction	Tissues eliminate unfit, unwanted, or unnecessary cells through cell extrusion, and this can lead to the elimination of both apoptotic and live cells. However, the mechanical signatures that influence the fate of extruding cells remain unknown. Here we show that modified force-transmission across adherens junctions inhibits apoptotic cell eliminations. By combining cell experiments with varying levels of E-cadherin junctions and three-dimensional modelling of cell monolayers, we find that these changes not only affect the fate of the extruded cells but also shift extrusion from the apical to the basal side, leading to cell invasion into soft collagen gels. We generalize our findings using breast cancer patient-derived xenografts and cysts cultured in matrigel. Our results link intercellular force transmission regulated by cell-cell communication to cell extrusion mechanisms, with potential implications during morphogenesis and invasion of cancer cells.
PXD053349	40637237	Nucleolar FRG2 lncRNAs inhibit rRNA transcription and cytoplasmic translation, linking FSHD to dysregulation of muscle-specific protein synthesis. 	A novel family of lncRNAs relate facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy to nucleolar architecture and protein synthesis rate	FRG2A, FSHD, LC-MS, lncRNA	Facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) is a hereditary myopathy linked to deletions of the tandemly arrayed D4Z4 macrosatellite at human chromosome 4q35. These deletions cause local chromatin changes and anomalous expression of nearby transcripts FRG2A, DBET, and D4Z4. We discovered that FRG2A is part of a family of long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs) expressed in skeletal muscle cells, with levels varying among patients. FRG2A localizes in the nucleolus and associates with repetitive DNA at ribosomal DNA (rDNA) loci and centromeres. Elevated FRG2A expression in FSHD cells alters the three-dimensional architecture of heterochromatin at the nucleolar periphery and reduces rDNA transcription and translation rates, resulting in decreased synthesis of skeletal muscle proteins. We also show that myoblasts from FSHD patients display reduced synthesis of skeletal muscle proteins during differentiation. Our results support a disease model in which nucleolar accumulation of D4Z4-driven lncRNA impairs protein synthesis and contributes to muscle wasting.
PXD065411	40638084	Arylsulfamates inhibit colonic Bacteroidota growth through a sulfatase-independent mechanism. 	Arylsulfamates inhibit colonic Bacteroides growth through lipid kinases and not sulfatases	Arylsulfamate, Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, Sulfatase, Thermal proteome profiling	Excessive degradation of the colonic mucin layer by Bacteroides within the human gut microbiota drives inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in mice. Bacterial carbohydrate sulfatases are key enzymes in gut colonization, and they are elevated in human IBD and correlate with disease severity. Selective inhibitors of carbohydrate sulfatases could function as sulfatase-selective drugs, allowing precise control of sulfatase activity while preserving these otherwise beneficial bacteria. Arylsulfamates are covalent inhibitors that target a catalytic formylglycine residue of steroid sulfatases, a residue that is also conserved in carbohydrate sulfatases. Here, we find that a library of aryl- and carbohydrate sulfamates is ineffective against carbohydrate sulfatases, yet can inhibit human gut microbiota (HGM) species grown on sulfated glycans. Leveraging thermal proteome profiling (TPP), we identify a lipid kinase as the target responsible for these effects. This work highlights the imperative for developing specific inhibitors targeting carbohydrate sulfatases and reveals the adverse effects that arylsulfamates have on Bacteroides species of the HGM.
PXD056372	40638685	Boosting CAR T-Cell Efficacy by Blocking Proteasomal Degradation of Membrane Antigens. 	BCMA ubiquitylation in multiple myeloma	BCMA, di-glycine, ubiquitin, ubiquitylation	Chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T cells exhibit high response rates in B cell malignancies, but most patients eventually relapse. A key mechanism of treatment failure is the loss or downregulation of tumor antigen expression, yet strategies to modulate cell surface levels of CAR T cell targets remain largely unexplored. Here we identify B cell maturation antigen (BCMA), a central CAR T cell target in multiple myeloma (MM), as a highly short-lived protein that undergoes K48-linked polyubiquitylation at the plasma membrane, leading to its p97-dependent degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS). This previously unprecedented mechanism of plasma membrane protein regulation enables significant enhancement of BCMA expression via proteasome inhibitors (PI). The clinically approved PI carfilzomib (CFZ) significantly enhances the efficacy of BCMA-directed CAR T cells against both PI-sensitive and refractory MM cells in vitro and in vivo. Notably, treatment of ten patients with CFZ under the compassionate use CarCAR protocol - after relapse following BCMA CAR T cell therapy - resulted in increased BCMA expression in all patients. However, clinical responses were observed only in those with residual and/or expanding CAR T cells, suggesting restored CAR T cell function. These findings provide a rationale for the use of CFZ treatment in relapsed or refractory MM following BCMA CAR T therapy, advocate for future trials combining CFZ with BCMA CAR T cells and provide a framework for exploring UPS-dependent degradation of other immunotherapy antigens.
PXD054417	40639727	Deep Exploration of the Immunopeptidome of a Pancreatic Cancer Cell Line: Implications for Clinical Immunopeptidomics and Immunotherapy. 	Deep Exploration of the Immunopeptidome of a Pancreatic Cancer Cell Line Panc1: Implications for Clinical Immunopeptidomics and Immunotherapy (SWATH-DIA datasets)	HLA, Immunopeptidome, PDAC, Pancreatic Cancer, Tumor-Associated Antigens, variable window ZenoSWATH DIA	Pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma (PDAC), with its devastating prognosis and limited treatment options, demands innovative therapeutic strategies. T-cell-based immunotherapy has shown promise for many cancers, including PDAC, but is limited by our knowledge of the breadth of cancer-specific T-cell epitopes available. Thus, a comprehensive assessment of the immunopeptidome of PDAC is essential to pave the way for the effective design of immunotherapy and related interventions. In this study, we immunoaffinity purified Human Leukocyte Antigen (HLA) class I-bound peptides from the Panc1 cell line grown in the absence and presence of cytokine stimulation. These peptides were subjected to an off-line high-pH reversed-phase (HPH-RP) fractionation prior to data acquisition. We demonstrate that HPH-RP fractionation followed by data-dependent acquisition (DDA) is a relatively simple and reliable technique that expands the depth of coverage of the PDAC immunopeptidome, allowing the identification of over 22,500 canonical HLA-bound peptides. In addition, the complementary separation by HPH-RP improved the identification confidence, particularly in the case of co-fragmenting precursors in data-independent acquisition (DIA) workflows. This strategy facilitated the identification of a high number of cancer-testis antigen- (CTA-) derived immunopeptides. However, given that fractionation is typically associated with an adsorptive loss, it is impractical to apply HPH-RP on often minuscule clinical specimens and biopsies. Thus, we explored the feasibility of immunopeptidome analysis with cellular inputs as low as 1 million cells (equivalent to approximately 1 mg of tissue) using either a ZenoSWATH DIA interpreted using a spectral library derived from the HPH-RP strategy, or an optimised DDA workflow on the SCIEX ZenoToF 7600 system. Both of these approaches enabled robust detection of CTA-derived and other potentially clinically actionable immunopeptides even at the lowest cellular inputs. We discuss the relative merits of both acquisition strategies and how they can form the basis for future clinical translational immunopeptidomics approaches to screen tumor antigen presentation in low cellular input PDAC biopsies and provide new opportunities for target identification in immune-based therapies. Data are available via the ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD054360 and PXD054417.
PXD051443	40640389	Hepatitis B virus-infected hepatocytes promote the secretion of collagen VI to the extracellular matrix. 	TMT proteomic analysis of HBV-infected vs non-infected HepG2-NTCP cell line	HBV, TMT, hepatocytes	Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a global health problem as it is the major cause of liver fibrosis and its complications cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. The role of virus-host interactions in liver fibrosis and progression to cancer remains poorly understood. Here we show that HBV infection of permissive cells trigger pathways relevant for extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, which is a hallmark of liver fibrosis. We demonstrate that collagen VI (ColVI) is secreted from infected cells and induces a profibrotic phenotype in patient-derived myofibroblasts and identified HBV-induced AKT signaling as a driver of ColVI expression in HBV-infected cells. Consistently, ColVI is upregulated in the liver of HBV patients with fibrosis. Our results suggest a role of ColVI as a driver of HBV-associated liver disease and highlight the potential of ColVI as a biomarker candidate and therapeutic target in HBV-infected patients.
PXD060734	40640876	A 3D culture model facilitates mass production of in vitro Plasmodium falciparum haemolymph-like sporozoites. 	P. falciparum ookinetes produced by in vitro culture	malaria plasmodium falciparum ookinete	BACKGROUND: The in vitro cultivation of individual stages of the Plasmodium falciparum mosquito life cycle is notably challenging. The main difficulty is replicating the intricate nutrient and metabolite exchanges necessary for oocyst development and sporozoite (SPZ) formation in the three-dimensional environment of the mosquito midgut. Replicating these conditions is essential for understanding the biological interactions between mosquito and parasite, as well as advancing malaria vaccine development. METHODS: An in vitro three-dimensional system was developed that closely mimics the mosquito midgut epithelium, basal lamina, and haemolymph, facilitating the production of substantial quantities of haemolymph-like Pf SPZ. RESULTS: Use of an extracellular matrix-coated Alvetex((R)) Strata scaffold, combined with optimized culture medium, supports efficient oocyst attachment and provides the necessary nutrients for robust production of haemolymph-like SPZ. This system enables full maturation of oocysts, as shown by immunofluorescence assays (IFA), and allows timely release of in vitro SPZ (IVS) between days 11 and 15, comparable to the in vivo mosquito timeline. Haemolymph-like SPZ generated were found to be infectious, as evidenced by successful HC04 infection in in vitro and in vivo studies using FRG-huHep mice. Similar outcomes were observed across different P. falciparum strains. CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of the Alvetex Strata scaffold, optimized medium, and improved ookinete production consistently enables in vitro generation of large quantities of haemolymph-like SPZ.
PXD047698	40642069	FTO O-GlcNAcylation promotes TRIM21-mediated FTO ubiquitination degradation to sustain the negative feedback control of macrophage inflammation. 	Identification of the FTO O-GlcNAcylation sites by LC-MS/MS	FTO, O-GlcNAcylation	Introduction: The fat mass and obesity-associated protein (FTO), a key RNA N(6)-methyladenosine (m(6)A) demethylase, has been highlighted for its important role in inflammatory response. Emerging evidences link the O-GlcNAcylation to numerous human diseases, particularly inflammation. However, the specific role and underlying mechanism of FTO O-GlcNAcylation in inflammation remain elusive. Methods: The FTO O-GlcNAcylation modification was determined by co-immunoprecipitation (Co-IP) assay, metabolic glycan labeling combined with click reaction, and liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP)-qPCR and dual-luciferase reporter assay were used to determine FOXO1 binding to the Gfat2 promoter and the Gfat2 promoter activity during LPS stimulation. The FTO ubiquitination modification and the interaction between FTO and TRIM21 were detected by confocal microscopy, pull-down, and mass spectrometry analysis. The effects of FTO O-GlcNAcylation on the ubiquitination degradation of FTO were assessed by Co-IP and protein stability assays. The Socs1 mRNA m(6)A methylation levels were detected by m(6)A-RNA-immunoprecipitation (RIP)-qPCR. The myeloid-specific Fto deletion (myeFto (-/-)) mice, the macrophage depletion and reconstitution experiments, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) were used to evaluate inflammatory responses in Salmonella Typhimurium (S. Typhimurium) or bacterial endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide, LPS) induced sepsis mouse models. Results: We demonstrate that FTO undergoes O-GlcNAcylation specifically at the serine 95 (Ser95) site. LPS enhances FTO O-GlcNAcylation modification levels by increasing the FOXO1-regulated GFAT2 expression. O-GlcNAcylation of FTO promotes TRIM21-mediated K48-ubiquitination degradation of FTO, which further induces suppressor of cytokine signaling (Socs) 1 m(6)A methylation, thus sustains SOCS1 protein expression and suppresses multiple inflammatory cytokines IL-1beta/IL-6/TNF-alpha production in LPS-stimulated macrophages. FTO O-GlcNAcylation mutation (S95A) aggravates S. Typhimurium or LPS-induced sepsis, while FTO O-GlcNAcylation suppresses the hyperinflammatory phenotype in mice. Promotion of O-GlcNAcylation by an OGA inhibitor Thiamet-G alleviates LPS-induced inflammatory responses and septic shock in mice. Conclusion: These findings reveal a mechanism that FTO O-GlcNAcylation promotes its ubiquitination degradation, and thus induces Socs1 m(6)A methylation and downregulates LPS-mediated inflammatory response, which maintains the negative feedback control of macrophage inflammatory cytokine storm in sepsis. Regulation of FTO O-GlcNAcylation may offer a potential therapeutic strategy for combating endotoxin-induced inflammatory disease and other FTO abnormal expression-associated diseases.
PXD056263	40643159	Loss of DCAF8 impairs hematopoietic stem cell function with cellular senescence via the DOCK11-CDC42 axis. 	Ubiquitin proteomic analysis of bone marrow cells from wild-type and Dcaf8 knockout mice	Dcaf8, aging, bone marrow	Hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are responsible for sustaining hematopoietic system throughout life, and their functional decline contributes to hematological disorders and organismal aging. Understanding the molecular mechanisms that govern HSC function is critical for developing interventions for treating and preventing aging-related diseases. Here, we show that DCAF8, a substrate recognition component of Cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligases, is highly expressed in HSCs and undergoes a progressive decline with age. Loss of DCAF8 in mice results in impaired function in HSCs, characterized by increased number yet decreased self-renewal capacity, which associates with cellular senescence and elevated DNA damage. Mechanistically, DCAF8 mediates the degradation of DOCK11, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for CDC42. In the absence of DCAF8, DOCK11 accumulates, leading to elevated CDC42 activity and consequential loss of polarity of HSCs. Knocking out Dock11 mitigates the senescence, DNA damage, and self-renewal defects of Dcaf8-/- HSCs. This study highlights a critical role of DCAF8 in preventing HSC senescence via the DOCK11-CDC42 axis and suggests potential therapeutic targets for preventing functional decline in HSCs.
PXD060287	40645189	Deuterium labeling enables proteome-wide turnover kinetics analysis in cell culture. 	Human induced pluripotent stem cells under dynamic heavy water labeling	heavy water, iPSC	Protein turnover is a critical component of gene expression regulation and cellular homeostasis, yet methods for measuring turnover rates that are scalable and applicable to different models are still needed. We introduce an improved D2O (heavy water) labeling strategy to investigate the landscape of protein turnover in cell culture, with accurate calibration of per-residue deuterium incorporation in multiple cell types. Applying this method, we mapped the proteome-wide turnover landscape of pluripotent and differentiating human induced pluripotent stem cells (hiPSCs). Our analysis highlights the role of APC/C (anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome) and SPOP (speckle-type POZ protein) degrons in the fast turnover of cell-cycle-related and DNA-binding hiPSC proteins. Upon pluripotency exit, many short-lived hiPSC proteins are depleted, while RNA-binding and -splicing proteins become hyperdynamic. The ability to identify fast-turnover proteins also facilitates secretome profiling, as exemplified in hiPSC-cardiomyocyte and primary human cardiac fibroblast analysis. This method is broadly applicable to protein turnover studies in primary, pluripotent, and transformed cells.
PXD036420	40645299	Distinct systemic metabolic features in limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type R1 mouse models as a potential early pathogenic signature. 	Chronological proteomic analysis of skeletal muscle of limb-girdle muscular dystrophy R1 model mouse	Calpain-3, iTRAQ, limb-girdle muscular dystrophy R1, skeletal muscle	Limb-girdle muscular dystrophy type R1 (LGMDR1, formerly LGMD2A) is a genetic disorder caused by mutations in CAPN3 and is characterized by progressive proximal limb muscle weakness. The CAPN3 gene product, calpain-3/CAPN3/p94, is a member of the intracellular cysteine protease superfamily predominantly expressed in the skeletal muscle. LGMDR1 pathogenesis has been investigated separately using mouse models: CAPN3:C129S [knock-in (KI)] mice, which express a proteolytically inactive variant, and CAPN3 knockout (KO) mice. These studies propose that CAPN3 bears both proteolytic activity-dependent and -independent functions and that the loss of either or both affects phenotypes. Here, we report a side-by-side, long-term analysis of KI and KO mice to comprehensively understand the LGMDR1 pathology in terms of CAPN3 function. Their physiques were comparable to those of wild-type animals, but age-dependent LGMDR1 symptoms were observed by histochemical analysis, with more severe symptoms observed in KO mice. Quantitative muscle proteomics and gene ontology analyses revealed more diverse changes in the KO mice than in the KI mice. Of the associated terms, "metabolic process" was the most affected across the genotype and age groups. Metabolomic analysis suggested that the skeletal muscles of these mice had an imbalance in the branched-chain amino acid catabolic pathway. Furthermore, a reduction in lipids and glycogen was observed in the liver of KO mice, suggesting that a systemic energy deficit occurs during CAPN3 deficiency. Altogether, our results suggest that muscular dysfunction in LGMDR1 models is associated with compromised systemic energy balance and that the extent of perturbation is implicated in disease severity.
PXD061906	40645503	SNX10 enhances HCoV-OC43 infection by facilitating viral entry and inhibiting virus-triggered autophagy. 	Mass spectrometry analysis for IP with SNX10 Antibody in CRC HCT-8 cell	Mass spectrometry analysis, SNX10	The ongoing coronavirus epidemic, including the novel coronavirus (COVID-19), continues to pose a significant threat to global public health. Host targets address multiple stages of the viral life cycle and provide diverse opportunities for therapeutic interventions. This study identified sorting nexin 10 (SNX10) as a facilitator of replication of human coronavirus OC43 (HCoV-OC43), underscoring its potential as a novel antiviral target. The knockout of SNX10 significantly suppressed HCoV-OC43 replication both in vivo and in vitro. Immunoprecipitation-mass spectrometry (IP-MS) analysis identified the adaptor protein complex 2 subunit mu1 (AP2M1) as a direct interactor of SNX10. Specifically, SNX10 facilitates phosphorylation of the AP2M1, thereby enhancing clathrin-mediated viral endocytosis. Furthermore, subsequent binding and internalization assays revealed that SNX10 knockout significantly inhibits viral entry into host cells. Conversely, the reconstitution of SNX10 fully restored viral entry, thereby confirming the critical and indispensable role of SNX10 in pathogen internalization. Simultaneously, SNX10 was identified as a key factor that promotes endosomal acidification by modulating pH levels, which in turn facilitated the release of the viral genome. Notably, the ablation of SNX10 was found to trigger autophagy activation during infection, thereby maintaining intracellular homeostasis. Additionally, it exerted autonomous antiviral effects through lysosomal degradation pathways. Collectively, these findings demonstrate SNX10 serves as a pivotal regulator of the viral life cycle and underscore its therapeutic potential as a multi-faceted antiviral candidate capable of simultaneously inhibiting viral internalization, viral genomic release, and host-pathogen equilibrium.
PXD058693	40649758	Comparing Protein Stability in Modern and Ancient Sabkha Environments: Implications for Molecular Remnants on Ancient Mars. 	Molecular mechanism of exchange coupling in CLC chloride/proton antiporters	H/D exchange, membrane proteins, protein structure, proton-chloride antiporter	Understanding the mechanisms of protein preservation in extreme environments is essential for identifying potential molecular biosignatures on Mars. In this study, we investigated five sabkha sedimentary samples from the Abu Dhabi coast, spanning from the present day to ~11,000 years before present (BP), to assess how mineralogy and environmental conditions influence long-term protein stability. Using LC-MS/MS and direct Data-independent Acquisition (DIA) proteomic analysis, we identified 722 protein groups and 1300 peptides, revealing a strong correlation between preservation and matrix composition. Carbonate- and silica-rich samples favored the retention of DNA-binding and metal-coordinating proteins via mineral-protein interactions, while halite- and gypsum-dominated facies showed lower recovery due to extreme salinity and reduced biomass input. Functional profiling revealed a shift from metabolic dominance in modern samples to genome maintenance strategies in ancient ones, indicating microbial adaptation to prolonged environmental stress. Contrary to expectations, some ancient samples preserved large, multi-domain proteins, suggesting that early mineral encapsulation can stabilize structurally complex biomolecules over millennial timescales. Taxonomic reconstruction based on preserved proteins showed broad archaeal diversity, including Thaumarchaeota and thermophilic lineages, expanding our understanding of microbial ecology in hypersaline systems. These findings highlight sabkhas as valuable analogs for Martian evaporitic environments and suggest that carbonate-silica matrices on Mars may offer optimal conditions for preserving ancient molecular traces of life.
PXD062650	40649876	Age-Associated Proteomic Changes in Human Spermatozoa. 	https://edelivery.oracle.com/akam/otn/java/jdk/8u202-b08/1961070e4c9b4e26a04e7f5a083f551e/jre-8u202-windows-i586-iftw.exe	LC-MS/MS., aging, spermatozoa	Advancing age in men significantly contributes to declining sperm fertility. Information on age-related proteomic changes in spermatozoa is limited. This study involved normal fertile Arab men in three age groups: young adult (21-30 years; n = 6), late adult (31-40 years; n = 7), and advanced age (40-51 years; n = 5). Gradient-purified spermatozoa were analyzed using LC-MS/MS and proteomic data were processed using Progenesis QI (QIfp) v3.0 and UniProt/SwissProt. Significantly enriched annotations and clustering of proteins in the proteomic datasets were identified (2-fold change; p < 0.05). A total of 588 proteins were identified, with 93% shared across the three groups. Unique proteins were MYLK4 for the young adult group, PRSS57 for the late adult group, and HMGB4, KRT4, LPGAT1, OXCT2, and MGRN1 for the advanced age group. Furthermore, 261 (44%) proteins were differentially expressed (p < 0.05) across the three groups. Functional enrichment analysis suggested an aging-related significant increase in pathways associated with neurodegenerative diseases and protein folding, alongside decreases in glycolysis/gluconeogenesis, flagellated sperm motility, acetylation, phosphoprotein modifications, oxidation processes, and Ubl conjugation. Cluster analysis highlighted significantly upregulated proteins in young adults (e.g., H2BC1, LAP3, SQLE, LTF, PDIA4, DYNLT2) and late adults (e.g., ATP5F1B, ODF2, TUBA3C, ENO1, SPO11, TEX45, TEKT3), whereas most proteins in the advanced age group exhibited downregulation (e.g., SPESP1, RAB10, SEPTIN4, RAB15, PTPN7, USP5, ANXA1, PRDX1). In conclusion, this study revealed aging-associated proteomic changes in spermatozoa that impact critical processes, including spermatogenesis, motility, metabolism, and fertilization, potentially contributing to fertility decline. These changes provide a molecular framework for developing therapies to preserve sperm proteostasis and enhance fertility in older men.
PXD062108	40649918	Subtherapeutic Dose of Ionizing Radiation Reprograms the Pre-Metastatic Lung Niche, Accelerating Its Formation and Promoting Metastasis. 	Subtherapeutic-Dose of Ionizing Radiation Reprograms the Pre-Metastatic Lung Niche, Accelerating Its Formation and Promoting Metastasis	Pre-metastatic niche, metastasis, subtherapeutic-dose of ionizing radiation	Pre-metastatic niche (PMN) formation is a critical step in metastatic progression. However, the biological effects of subtherapeutic doses of ionizing radiation (SDIRs) following radiotherapy on this process remain unclear. Using a 4T1 breast cancer mouse model, we investigated the effects of SDIRs (3 x 0.3 Gy) on lung PMN development and metastasis upon SDIR exposure on days 8-10 post-tumor injection, followed by mastectomy and analyzed on day 24. SDIRs significantly increased the total metastatic volume (TMV) in lungs, suggesting an accelerated PMN formation. Mechanistically, the SDIR acted as an early catalyst for niche priming, upregulating Bv8 expression, enhancing neutrophil recruitment, and increasing MMP9, S100A8, and Il6 production in the PMN by day 11. Moreover, SDIR drives metastasis through distinct mechanisms. Proteomic analysis revealed SDIR-driven metabolic reprogramming, with a shift away from fatty acid metabolism toward glycolysis and lipid accumulation within the PMN. This shift contributes to extracellular matrix (ECM) remodeling, immune modulation, and the upregulation of adhesion-related pathways, shaping a microenvironment that accelerates metastatic outgrowth. By reprogramming the pre-metastatic lung, the SDIR highlights the need to integrate organ-specific radiation exposure into metastasis models. Metabolic and immune-stromal pathways emerge as potential therapeutic targets, underscoring the importance of refining radiotherapy strategies to mitigate unintended pro-metastatic effects.
PXD062079	40650119	Nuclear Fraction Proteome Analyses During rAAV Production of AAV2-Plasmid-Transfected HEK-293 Cells. 	Analysis of the nuclear proteome fraction of rAAV2-plasmid transfected HEK-293 cells during AAV production	FASP, MS/MS, nuclear fraction, rAAV production	Recombinant adeno-associated virus (rAAV) is the leading vector for gene replacement therapy; however, the roles and regulation of host proteins in rAAV production remain incompletely understood. In this comparative proteomic analysis, we focused on proteins in the nucleus, the epicenter of DNA uptake, transcription, capsid assembly, and packaging. HEK-293 cells were analyzed under the following three conditions: (i) untransfected, (ii) mock-transfected with the ITR and an unrelated plasmid, and (iii) triple-transfected with rAAV2 production plasmids. Cells were harvested at 24 and 72 h post-transfection, and nuclear fractions were processed using filter-aided sample preparation (FASP) followed by nano-scale liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (nLC-Orbitrap MS/MS). Across all samples, we identified 3384 proteins, revealing significant regulatory changes associated with transfection and rAAV production. Transfection alone accounted for some of the most substantial proteomic shifts, while rAAV production induced diverse regulatory changes linked to cell cycle control, structure, and metabolism. STRING analysis of significantly regulated proteins also identified an enrichment of those associated with the Gene Ontology (GO) term 'response to virus'. Additionally, we examined proteins with reported relation to adenoviral components. Our findings help to unravel the complexity of rAAV production, identify interesting targets for further investigation, and may contribute to improving rAAV yield.
PXD063414	40650225	Tear Proteome Analysis with Patients with Primary Nasolacrimal Duct Obstruction. 	Tear Proteome Analysis Using LC-MS/MS in Patients with Primary Nasolacrimal Duct Obstruction	epiphora, nasolacrimal duct obstruction, tear proteomics	The pathogenesis of primary acquired nasolacrimal duct obstruction (PANDO) remains unclear, with several factors implicated, including anatomical structures, hormones, and tear components. This study explored tear proteins to better understand PANDO etiology by comparing protein expression in tears from patients with PANDO and healthy controls. Tear samples were collected from 22 patients with PANDO (mucous and membranous types) and 8 controls using Weck-Cel sponges. Protein analysis was conducted using LC-MS/MS to identify and quantify tear proteins. Female patients with PANDO had higher numbers of differentially expressed proteins (DEPs) compared with males. Certain DEPs associated with inflammatory pathways or the lacrimal duct epithelium, including SERPINB1, SERPINA3, CTSG, SLPI, and EZR, were identified in male patients. Although this is a preliminary study, our results offer insights into the pathogenesis of PANDO, with potential to distinguish between mucous and membranous subtypes. The potential biomarkers identified in this study could enhance early diagnosis and treatment, shedding light on inflammatory and immune processes in PANDO.
PXD064313	40650235	The Identification of Proteolytic Substrates of Calpain-5 with N-Terminomics. 	The Identification of Proteolytic Substrates of Calpain-5 with N-terminomics	CAPN5, Calpain-5, N-terminomics, TAILS, disease, protease	Calpain-5/CAPN5 is a calcium-activated, non-lysosomal cysteine (thiol) protease. The substrate repertoire of CAPN5 is not known. Calpains catalyze limited proteolysis of their substrates, generating neo-N-termini that correspond to internal residues of their nascent substrate proteins. To identify such neo-N-termini generated by CAPN5, we employed an N-terminomics approach called TAILS (Terminal amine isotopic labeling of substrates) to quantitatively compare the N-terminal peptides detected in parental and CAPN5-deficient SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. Thirty neo-N-termini corresponding to 29 protein groups and 24 unique proteins were detected to be depleted in the CAPN5(-/-) cells. A subset of the identified putative substrates was further studied with CAPN5 co-immunoprecipitation, in vitro calcium-induced CAPN5 proteolysis assay, and their cellular fragmentation patterns were compared in parental and CAPN5-deficient SH-SY5Y cells. Here, we provide evidence for CAPN5-mediated proteolysis of the synaptic proteins DLGAP4, IQSEC1 and MPDZ, the neurodegeneration-related EWS, hnRNPU, TFG and UGP2, the DNA replication regulator MCM3, and the neuronal differentiation regulator LMTK1. Our data provide new relevance for neovascular inflammatory vitreoretinopathy (NIV), a progressive eye disease caused by pathogenic mutations in CAPN5. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD064313.
PXD031807	40650288	S-Nitrosylation of p53 in Melanoma Cells Under Nitrosative Stress. 	S-nitrosylation of p53 in A375 cells	A375, S-nitrosylation, melanoma cells, p53	Article [...].
PXD054740	40650669	RPL6 Interacts with HMGCS1 to Stabilize HIF-1alpha by Promoting Cholesterol Production in Hepatocellular Carcinoma. 	RPL6 interacts with HMGCS1 to stabilize HIF-1alpha by activating cholesterol biosynthesis in hepatocellular carcinoma.	Cholesterol, HMGCS1, Hepatocellular carcinoma, Metastasis, RPL6	The identification of predictive markers to determine the premetastatic phase before metastasis is critical for developing effective strategies for early detection and prevention. By applying the dynamic network biomarker (DNB) approach to analyze time-series transcriptomic data from a pulmonary metastasis HCC mouse model, it is revealed that the premetastatic phase occurred during the fourth week after implantation. A total of 142 DNB genes are identified as functionally important biomarkers for HCC metastasis, among which 60S ribosomal protein L6 (RPL6) is a core DNB member. RPL6 is significantly upregulated in HCC tissues with extrahepatic metastasis and is strongly correlated with poor prognosis in HCC patients. RPL6 promotes the invasion and metastasis of HCC cells, both in vitro and in vivo. Mechanistically, RPL6 directly binds to the HMGCS1 mRNA 3'UTR, a rate-limiting enzyme in cholesterol biosynthesis, thus increasing HMGCS1 mRNA stability and protein expression and subsequently elevating intracellular cholesterol level. Elevated cholesterol inhibits the ubiquitin-dependent degradation of HIF-1alpha, which further results in activation of HIF-1alpha signaling pathway. Together, this study provides new insights into the dynamic transcriptome profiles of HCC pulmonary metastasis and establishes an important role for the RPL6-HMGCS1-HIF-1alpha axis in HCC metastasis, suggesting potential prognostic biomarkers and therapeutic targets in HCC.
PXD051887	40650968	A-to-I mRNA editing recodes hundreds of genes in dozens of species and produces endogenous protein isoforms in bacteria. 	A-to-I mRNA editing enables bacteria to produce two protein versions from a single gene and affects bacterial growth	Adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) mRNA editing, gammaproteobacteria	Adenosine-to-inosine (A-to-I) messenger RNA (mRNA) editing can affect the sequence and function of translated proteins and has been extensively investigated in eukaryotes. However, the prevalence of A-to-I mRNA editing in bacteria, its governing regulatory principles, and its biological significance are poorly understood. Here, we show that A-to-I mRNA editing occurs in hundreds of transcripts across dozens of gammaproteobacterial species, with most edits predicted to recode protein sequences. Furthermore, we reveal conserved regulatory determinants controlling editing across gammaproteobacterial species. Using Acinetobacter baylyi as a model, we show that mutating TadA, the mediating enzyme, reduces editing across all sites. Conversely, overexpressing TadA resulted in the editing of >300 transcripts, attesting to the editing potential of TadA. Notably, we show for the first time, at the protein level, that normal levels of A-to-I mRNA editing lead to wild-type bacteria expressing two protein isoforms from a single gene. Finally, we show that a TadA mutant with deficient editing activity does not grow at high temperatures, suggesting that RNA editing has a functional role in bacteria. Our work reveals that A-to-I mRNA editing in bacteria is widespread and has the potential to reshape the bacterial transcriptome and proteome.
